

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1681
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"076 – 2018 cqks ui 14 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2018'06'14
No. 2,076  –  ThuRsday ,  juNE 14, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
aTTENTioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th july, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd june, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1679-B 81421- 5,403 (06/2018)
N. B.–   Part iV (a) of the Gazette No. 2,075 of 08.06.2018 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1680
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1681
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
EffICIENCy bAR EXAmINATION fOR 
OffICERS IN GRADE III AND GRADE II Of  
SRI LANkA TEChNOLOGICAL 
SERvICE - 2017 (I)
iT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved 
service minute of sri Lanka Technological service, the above 
mentioned examinations will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, in colombo, in the month of 
september 2018.
02. (i) These examinations will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates will 
be bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by him 
in respect of conducting the examination and issuing the 
results. The candidates will be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations, if 
such rules are violated by them.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately 
at the beginning of this Gazette notification.
03. The specimen application for admission to this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
candidates are required to prepare their applications in 
accordance with the specimen form and officers of Sri 
Lanka Technological service in the public service of the 
central government should forward their applications 
through the respective head of department and officers of 
sri Lanka Technological service in the provincial public 
service should forward their applications through the 
secretary of Psc in the provincial council where they serve, 
by registered post to reach the commissioner General of 
Examinations, organizations and Foreign Examination 
Branch, department of Examinations, P. o. Box 1503, 
colombo on or before 16th july, 2018. The top left corner 
of the envelop containing the application should bear clearly 
the title of the examination. applications received after the 
closing date of application will be rejected.
04. Identity : candidates should prove their identity at 
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject they offer. For this purpose any of the following 
documents will be accepted.
 (a)  an identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons.
 (b)  a valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish 
any of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the 
discretion of commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Application :
 (i)  applications should be prepared in a paper a4 in 
size using both sides. No. 01 to 06 should appear 
on the first page whilst the rest should appear on 
other pages. applications could be typed but they 
should be completed correctly and legibly by the 
candidate in his/her own handwriting and in the 
language medium in which the candidate sits this 
examination.
 (ii)  When the application form is prepared, the title of 
the examination appearing in the specimen should 
be indicated in English Language as well, on both 
sinhala and Tamil application forms. applications 
which are incomplete and not prepared in 
accordance with the specimen form will be 
rejected without any notice. it is the responsibility 
of the candidate to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/her self complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice and it 
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed application form.
 (iii)  The candidates appearing for the whole 
examination or one subject for the first time need 
not pay examination fees. however, for subsequent 
sittings, a fee of Rs. 500/= should be paid for the 
whole examination and if only one subject is 
offered, a fee of Rs. 250/= should be paid. The fee 
can be paid at any post office or sub post office in 
the island to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-
13 of the commissioner General of Examination 
on or before the closing date of application and 
the receipt obtained thus should be affixed firmly 
in the relevant cage of the application. it would 
be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt 
with the candidate. under no circumstance, will 
the fee be refunded nor transferred in respect of 
other examinations. stamps or money orders will 
not be accepted for the examination fee.
 (iv)  This examination is held in sinhala, Tamil and 
English medium. applicants should select one 
medium relevant to them and they should answer 
the question papers in one and the same language 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1682
selected by them. The medium they applied for is 
not allowed to change at a later occasion.
 (v)  An officer is not allowed to sit for both 
Efficiency Bar Examinations at one and the 
same occasion.
 (vi)  The officers who have entered into the Grade 
iii of sri Lanka Technological service as at the 
closing date of the application can sit for the first 
Efficiency Bar Examination and those who have 
entered into the Grade ii can sit for the second 
Efficiency Bar Examination. 
06. on the supposition that only the candidates who 
have possessed the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette 
have submitted applications, the commissioner General of 
Examinations will issue admission cards to the applicants 
who have submitted perfected applications indicating the 
medium of language, examination applied for, signature of 
the applicant and the attestation of the signature, attestation 
of the head of the department along with the receipt of 
payment of the examination fee, if relevant, on or before 
the closing date of examination. a candidate sitting for 
the examination must produce his admission card which 
bears the candidate's signature and duly attested to the 
supervisor of the examination center. a candidate who 
fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted 
to sit the examination. A notification will be published in 
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to 
the candidates. if the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be 
taken to notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. At the time of 
calling the department of Examinations, the full name of 
the applicant, address and National identity card Number 
should be mentioned and it would be advisable to keep the 
following in hand i.e. photocopies of the application form 
and the receipt of payment of examination fee if relevant, 
kept at your possession and the receipt of registration. in 
case of applicants outside colombo, a letter of request with 
a fax number to which the admission card should be sent 
and other particulars mentioned above should be sent to the 
department of Examination by fax.
06. (i)  The signature of the candidate in the admission 
card for the examination shall have been be duly 
attested. a candidate applying for the examination 
through a certain institution shall get his/her 
signature attested by the respective head of the 
Institution or an officer authorized by him or the 
Principal of a government school/retired officer, 
Grama Niladhari of the division, a justice of Peace, a 
commissioner for oaths, an attorney-at-Law, a Notary 
Public, a Commissioned Officer of the Three Armed 
Forces, permanent officer in staff grade in Public 
or Provincial Public service drawing an annual 
consolidated salary of  Rs. 240,360/- or above, an 
incumbent or chief priest of a Buddhist temple or a 
person in charge of a place of worship or a person 
holding a respectable position among the clergy in 
any other religious sector.
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates who 
have failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in para (06) 
above will not be considered. 
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves 
for different subjects separately at different examinations. 
however, in order to secure a pass at least 40% of the marks 
should be obtained in respect of each question paper.
09. Issuance of the results of the examination. – in 
accordance with the particulars indicated in para 3 above, 
the results of the candidates belonging to Provincial Public 
service will be issued to the secretary of the respective 
Provincial Public service commission and the results of 
the candidates belonging to public  service of the central 
government will be issued to the secretary of the Ministry 
of Public administration.
10. Scheme of examinations :
 (1) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in 
Grade iii will consist of the following 02 question 
papers.
  subject No. (01) - Establishments code 
and Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission - (Two hours) 100 marks
  subject No. (02) - Financial Regulations - (Two 
hours) 100 marks
  establishments Code and Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service Commission (subject No. 01) 
- syllabus
  This paper will be based on the following 
chapters of Establishments code and Procedural 
Rules of the Public service commission.
chapter Viii overtime, holidays, holiday 
Pay & allowances

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1683
chapter Xii Leave
chapter Xiii Railway Warrants
chapter XiV Travel on duty within the 
island
chapter XiX Government Quarters
  Financial Regulations - (Subject No. 02) - 
Syllabus
  This paper will be based on the following 
chapters of Financial Regulations.
 (1) Chapter I.
   Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue.
  The consolidated Fund and Planning and 
Programming of Expenditure, Form of 
Presentation of annual Estimates, New 
Proposals, Preparation submission and 
Passing of Estimates of Expenditure, 
Variations to Estimates of Expenditure  
(FR 1 to 68).
 (2) Chapter III.
   Financial Management and accountability.
  Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting 
Officers, Revenue Officers, Authorization, 
  Approval,  Certification,  Delegation  of 
  authority.  
(FR 124 to 147).
 (2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in 
Grade ii will consist of the following 02 question 
papers.
subject No. 03 -  Establishments code 
 (Two hours) 100 marks
subject No. 04 - Financial Regulations 
 (Two hours) 100 marks
 Establishments code (subject No. 03) - syllabus. 
This paper will be based on the following 
chapters of Establishments code. 
chapter XV Travel abroad for study, training 
or on duty
chapter XVi holiday Travel
chapter XXiii special concessions and 
conditions regarding officers 
suffering from  certain types of 
illnesses.
chapter XXiV salary Loans and advances 
chapter XXV concessions to members of 
Trade unions
chapter XXVii channels of communication
chapter XXViii administrative procedures
chapter XXX Right of Government over its 
officers
chapter XXXiii Legal advice and legal actions
chapter XLVii General conduct and discipline
chapter XLViii Rules of disciplinary procedure
  Financial Regulations (subject No. 04) - syllabus
  This paper will be based on the following chapters 
of Financial Regulations.
 (1) Chapter vI.
  custody of Public Money etc., imprests 
and Bank accounts.
  security and custody of public etc., 
counterfoil Books, Boards of survey on 
cash stamps etc., imprests, Bank accounts 
  (FR. 315 to 396)
 (2) Chapter XIII. 
   supplies, Works and services.
   Procurement and contracts, supplies, 
Custody and Verification of Stores,  
surplus and unserviceable articles
   (FR. 685 to 775)
11.  The decision of the secretary, Ministry of public 
administration and Management Law and order will be 
the final in respect of any matter not provided for in this 
notification.
12.  issue of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the 
examination has been accepted.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1684
13.  in the event of any inconsistency between the 
sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, 
the sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text.
     
 
Padmasiri Jayamanna,
  secretary,
  Ministry of Public administration, 
  Management and Law & order.
 Ministry of Public administration Management and 
 Law & order,
independence square,
colombo 07,
30th May, 2018.
Specimen form of Application
           
  (For office use only) 
EFFiciENcy BaR EXaMiNaTioN FoR oFFicERs 
iN GRadE iii aNd GRadE ii oF sRi LaNKa 
TEchNoLoGicaL  sERVicE - 2017 (i)
(applications for both Grade iii and Grade ii examinations 
cannot be submitted at one and the same time)
Medium in which you sit for the examination : 
(sinhala - 2/ Tamil - 3/ English - 4)  
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination for which you intend to sit
Grade iii  - 0
Grade ii  - 1
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. Whether you belong to the Provincial Public 
 service or Public service
 (indicate the number relevant to the service you belong, 
in the cage) 
(central Public service - 10/Western Provincial Public 
service - 01/ central Provincial Public service - 02 / 
southern Provincial Public service - 03/ North Provincial 
Public service - 04/ Eastern Provincial Public service - 05/ 
Northwestern Provincial Public service - 06/ North central 
Provincial Public service - 07/ uva Provincial Public 
service - 08/ sabaragamuwa Provincial Public service - 09)
02. (a) Name in full :––––––––––––.
   (in English block capital letters)
  (eg. hERa Th MudiyaNsELaGE saMaN 
KuMaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 (b) Name with initials : (indicate the initials at the end 
of the name) :––––––––––––.
   (in English block capital letters) 
  (eg. GuNa WaRdhaNa, h.M.s.K.)
 (c) Name in full :––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/Tamil)
03. Official address : (Admissions will be posted to this 
address) :––––––––––––.
 (in English block capital letters) 
 :––––––––––––.
 (in sinhala/Tamil)
04. sex :
 (Male - 0/Female - 1) 
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. National identity card Number :
06. subject/subjects offered :
  Subjects offered for the Efficiency Bar Examination of 
Grade iii/ Grade ii (delete inapplicable  words)
  subject subject No.
  ........................... 
  ........................... 
07. Mobile Phone Number :
08. (i) date of Birth :   
  y ear  Month date
 (ii) age as at 16.07.2018 : 
  y ears Months days
09. (i) designation  :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Grade of sri Lanka Technological service  :               
––––––––––––.   
  (should be included as Grade iii/ii)
 (iii) service period in the above grade as at 16.07.2018  
:––––––––––––.
10.  department to which you belong  :––––––––––––.
11. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the 
examination fee :
 (i)  The post office at which the payment of 
examination fee is made  :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1685
 (b) Name with initials : (indicate the initials at the end 
of the name) :––––––––––––.
   (in English block capital letters) 
  (eg. GuNa WaRdhaNa, h.M.s.K.)
 (c) Name in full :––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/Tamil)
03. Official address : (Admissions will be posted to this 
address) :––––––––––––.
 (in English block capital letters) 
 :––––––––––––.
 (in sinhala/Tamil)
04. sex :
 (Male - 0/Female - 1) 
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. National identity card Number :
06. subject/subjects offered :
  Subjects offered for the Efficiency Bar Examination of 
Grade iii/ Grade ii (delete inapplicable  words)
  subject subject No.
  ........................... 
  ........................... 
07. Mobile Phone Number :
08. (i) date of Birth :   
  y ear  Month date
 (ii) age as at 16.07.2018 : 
  y ears Months days
09. (i) designation  :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Grade of sri Lanka Technological service  :               
––––––––––––.   
  (should be included as Grade iii/ii)
 (iii) service period in the above grade as at 16.07.2018  
:––––––––––––.
10.  department to which you belong  :––––––––––––.
11. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the 
examination fee :
 (i)  The post office at which the payment of 
examination fee is made  :––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Number and date of the receipt  :––––––––––––.
 (iii)  amount paid  :––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt of examination fee here (It would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
i declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate 
and i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above. Further, i agree to abide by the 
rules imposed by the commissioner General of Examination 
on conducting the examination and issuing the results. 
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of the candidate.
date  :––––––––––––.
Attestation of candidate's signature
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................
....................................................is presently employed in 
my office and is well known to me and he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on ................. 2018 and is 
exempted from paying the prescribed examination fee and 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and has affixed the 
receipt.
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of the attester.
date  :––––––––––––.
Name of the officer attesting  :––––––––––––.
Post  :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
(Confirm by the Official Stamp)
Certification of the Head of the Department
i hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs              
1 - 11 above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for 
the examination and also eligible to sit for the examination 
in the language medium mentioned above.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature and designation of 
 head of department.
 (Confirm by the Official Stamp)
date  :––––––––––––.
06 -732
mINISTRy Of LANDS AND PARLIAmENTARy 
REfORmS 
Survey Department of Sri Lanka 
REcRuiTMENT To PRiMaRy sEMi sKiLLEd PosTs 
(PL 02-2016) Which REMaiN VacaNT iN suRVEy 
dEPaRTMENT oF sRi LaNKa - suRVEy FiELd 
assisTaNT
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of 
sri Lanka to recruit to the post of primary semi skilled                         
(PL 02-2016) survey assistant which remains vacant in 
survey department. 
1.1  Post Grade 
1. survey Field assistant Grade iii
1.2 Nature of duties of posts :
Post Main Functions
survey Field 
assistant
* Giving assistance to draw the sketch 
relevant to the survey.
* Preparation of survey lines as possible 
as to observe old boundaries, using 
survey field books and plans.
* Placing and opening of relevant land 
marks and pickets in area relevant to 
the survey.
* Giving assistance to survey duties 
relevant to finding out and placing of 
bench marks relevant to the survey.
* Giving assistance to maintenance 
relevant to the safety and storing of 
instruments, use in the field.
* setting out of G. P. s. instruments 
in survey points in field for surveys 
which are done, using of satellite 
technology including of the odolite, 
leveling instruments and new 
electronic total stations.
* Giving assistance to all activities of 
placing of geo control points require 
for air photography.
* Keeping of targets properly that 
require for determination of location 
and level of all stations which made 
in surveys and giving assistance to 
collect data.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1686
Post Main Functions
* setting out of landmarks and bench 
marks using correct data in survey.
* setting out of landmarks relevant to 
blocking out of lands which basically 
done using the data in survey field 
books and tracing entries. 
* attending to any duty assigned by 
surveyor General or his representative 
as applicable to surveying.
* supervision of works of other survey 
field assistants is assigned for those 
who hold the post of overseers 
in survey field assistant grade, in 
addition to the above duties. 
2. The number of appointments and the date of 
appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. 
The appointing authority has power to fill all or any number 
of vacancies. 
3. Salary.– in terms of public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 and dated 25.05.2016 monthly salary scale 
applicable for the iii, ii, i and special grade of survey Field 
assistants' service is Rs. 25,250 - 10x270 - 10x300 - 10x330 
- 12x350 - Rs. 38,450 and the effective date of said salary 
will be 01.01.2020. salaries. salaries will be paid from the 
effective date of the appointment in terms of provision in 
schedule ii of above circular. 
4. This post is permanent. The pension entitled to 
the officers appointed to the Grade III of Survey Field 
assistants' service, by this examination will be determined 
in terms of the policy decision, on pension scheme taken by 
the government in future. This appointment is subject to 03 
years probation period and selected candidates are prepared 
to serve in any part of the country and subject to general 
conditions applicable to appointment to the public service 
specified at the beginning of this Gazette notification. 
5. Qualifications : 
 5.1 Educational Qualifications :
 (a) should have passed the G. c. E. ordinary 
Level Examination in six (06) subjects with at 
least two credits passes in not more than two 
sittings. 
 5.2 Professional Qualifications : 
  should have obtained a skill at least in level two 
of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) 
as determined by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission as appropriate for the 
post of survey field assistant. 
 5.3 Minimum skills :
 (a) Giving assistance to identify survey fields.
 (b) attending to safety and maintenance of 
survey instruments and equipments. 
 5.4 Physical fitness.– all candidates should have 
physically and mentally fit adequate to serve in 
any part of sri Lanka and to carry out duties in 
the post. 
 5.5 Other :
 (i) should be citizen of sri Lanka,
 (ii) The candidate should be of excellent moral 
character,
 (iii) All the necessary qualifications for recruitment 
to the post should have been fulfilled in all 
respect as at the closing date of calling for 
application.
 5.6 Age :
 (a) The minimum age should be 18 years and 
maximum age should be 45 years as at the 
closing date of applicable. (The maximum age 
limit is not applicable for those who hold a 
permanent post already in the public service).
6. Furnishing false information.– In filling these 
vacancies, if a candidate is found not to have necessary 
qualifications, his/her candidature can be cancelled. If any 
of the particulars furnished by a cancidate is found to be 
false within his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully 
suppressed by material fact he/she will be liable to dismissal 
from the public service. 
7. Method of recruitment. – Recruitment will be on a 
written examination. 
examination Procedure.– The examination will consists 
of written test consisting two subjects. This examination will 
be held in sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. The medium 
applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1687
Maximum 
marks 
obtainable
Minimum 
percentage 
of marks 
required for 
a pass
Time
1. General 
Knowledge
2. intelligence
100
100
40%
40%
02 hours
01 hour and 
15 minutes
 7.1 Syllabus : 
 (i) General Knowledge : including the 
knowledge of environment of the candidate 
lives, political, social, cultural, religious 
and economical environment in sri Lanka, 
scientific and technological development, 
internationally important general facts are 
expected by this paper. 
 (ii) Intelligence Test : a question paper made 
in multiple choice method, consists of 
questions to judge the rationality, ability of 
thought and ability to take decision, of the 
candidate. 
8. Selection procedure.– after an interview held by an 
interview board appointed by surveyor General only to 
ascertain whether the qualifications have been fulfilled by 
the candidates, recruitment will be made as survey field 
assistant in order of merits obtained by candidates in the 
written examination. 
One month field and theoretical training will be given to 
those who recruited as survey field assistants by the training 
institute of survey department. 
9. Preparation and submission of applications : 
 (a) The application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself on a paper size 21x29 (a4) 
using both sides as per the specimen application 
appearing at the end of this notice. item No. 
01 to 06 should be on page 01, No. 07-09.2 on 
page 02, No. 10-14 on page 03 and No. 15-16.2 
should be on page 04. 
 (b) candidates who are already employed in public 
service should forward their applications 
through their heads of the departments before 
the closing date of application. 
 (c) applications should be in the language in which 
the candidates in eligible to sit the examination. 
 (d) applications which are not complying with 
the specimen form, examination fees have 
not been paid before the prescribed date, of 
improper filling, will be rejected without any 
notice. candidates should bear consequences 
of improper filling of applications. It would be 
useful to retain a photocopy of the application. 
It is responsibility of the candidate to find out 
whether the completed application complies 
with the application specified in the notice. If 
not, application will be rejected. 
 (e) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
complaints for any loss of applications in the 
post will not be considered. 
 9.1 Only those who have fulfilled qualifications 
prescribed in chapter 5 of Gazette notification 
as at the closing date of application should 
apply. surveyor General will allow candidates 
who have paid specified examination fees and 
submitted application on or before 29.06.2018 
to sit the competitive examination. issuing 
of admission card shall not be deemed as the 
applicant possesses qualifications to the post or 
to sit the examination. 
 9.2 The envelope containing the application should 
be clearly marked "Recruitment to posts of 
primary semi skilled - survey Field assistant" 
on the top left hand corner. 
 9.3 The signature of the applicant in the application 
should be certified by a principal of a government 
school/justice of the peace/commissioner of 
Oaths/Attorney-at-law/Commissioned officer 
in the army/an officer in police service hold a 
Gazetted post or an officer who hold a permanent 
post in public service in tertiary or senior level 
in terms of the grading of public service circular 
No. 3/2016.
10. examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 800. This 
fee should be paid at the cashier of the surveyor General 
Office in No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any 
of district survey office or at institute of surveying and 
mapping - diyathalawa. The rece ipt should be pasted in 
the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable to 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1688
keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant). The fee is 
not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. applications without cash 
receipts will be rejected. 
11. Submission of application. – completed application 
should be sent by registered post to reach to the following 
address on or before 29.06.2018 :
senior superintendent of survey (Examination),
Surveyor General's Office, 
colombo 05.
12. Appearing for the examination .– Every candidate 
should hand over their admission card to the supervisor 
of the Examination centre. a candidate who fails to hand 
over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. The candidate should sit the examination at 
the examination hall assigned to him. 
13. Identity of Candidate. – candidates should prove 
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor for each paper they sit. any of the following 
documents will be accepted for their purpose : 
 (i) The National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of persons,
 (ii) a valid postal identity card issued by the post 
master general,
 (iii) a valid passport. 
14. Any matter not specified here, will be determined by 
the surveyor general. 
 P. M. P. 
Udayakantha, 
 surveyor General. 
Surveyor General's Office, 
colombo 05,
07th june, 2018. 
sPecimen aPPlication Form 
recrUitment to Primary semi skilled Post (PL 02-2016) 
which remain v acant in sUrvey dePartment - sUrvey 
Field assistant 
01. index No. :
  For office use only
02. Medium of examination : 
 (sinhala - s, Tamil - T, English - E)
 (indicate the letter/code in given cages)
03. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
 in sinhala :–––––––––––.
 in English :–––––––––––.
 03.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
  in sinhala :–––––––––––.
  in Engli sh :–––––––––––.
04. National identity card No. : 
05. date of Birth : 
 date Month y ear
 05.1 age as at the closing date of application :–––––––.
06. Gender (Male - M,  Female – F)
07. Permanent address (in legible letters) :
 in sinhala :–––––––––––.
 in English :–––––––––––.
 07.1 administrative district to which address belongs 
(see the schedule i)
 
  district No. : 
  Name of the district :
 07.2 d ate from which the applicant is resident in the 
district :–––––––––––.
08. Telephone No. : 
 Permanent :–––––––––––.
 Mobile :–––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications :
 09.1 details of G. c. E. ordinary Level Examination :
  1st attempt :
  (a) year and month of the examination :––––––––.
  (b) index No. :–––––––––––.
  (c) subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1689
 09.2 details of G. c. E. ordinary Level Examination : 
  2nd attempt :
  (d) year and month of the examination :––––––––.
  (e) index No. :–––––––––––.
  (f) subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8
10. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
 (Mention the NVQ qualifications that have been 
obtained)
11. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
12. have you ever been convicted in a court of Law for any 
offence : 
 y es :   No :
 12.1 if yes give details :–––––––––––.
13. details of receipt which the examination fees paid :
 (i)  Office at which the payment made :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Receipt no and date :–––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here.
14. Certificate of the candidate : 
 (a) i declare that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. 
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration made by me is 
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit 
for the appointment and if it is found after the 
appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from 
the service. 
 (c) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of 
................. has been pasted in relevant cage. 
 (d) Further, i declare that i agree to comply with the 
rules and regulations laid down by the surveyor 
General in respect of the examination. 
 (e) i shall not subsequently change any of the 
particulars mention here. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
15. Certification of signature of the Applicant : 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. who is 
submitting the application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his/her signature under the section 13, in 
my presence. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of attester. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
16. Recommendation of the head of the department (only 
for the applicant who are in Public/Provincial Public 
service) :
 16.1 According to the personal file of the officer, during 
the five years immediately prior to the closing 
date of application. 
  Work, Behavior, attendance satisfactory/
unsatisfactory.
  all salary increments have been earned/have not 
been earned.
  has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary 
action. 
 16.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can 
be/cannot be released from the post he holds at 
present. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of the head of the department,
  Official stamp. 
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2018
1690
schEduLE 01
This schedule is relevant to the administrative districts to 
which address belongs on No. 7.1 of the application. 
  Town/District Name Town/District No. 
 (i) colombo  01
 (ii) Gampaha 02
 (iii) Kaluthara 03
 (iv) Kandy 04
 (v) Matale 05
 (vi) Nuwara Eliya 06
 (vii) Galle 07
 (viii) Matara 08
 (ix) hambanthota 09
 (x) Kurunegala 10
 (xi) Puttalam 11
 (xii) anuradapura 12
 (xiii) Polonnaruwa 13
 (xiv) Badulla 14
 (xv) Monaragala 15
 (xvi) Rathnapura 16
 (xvii) Kegalle 17
 (xviii) ampara 18
 (xix) Batticaloa 19
 (xx) Trincomalee 20
 (xxi) jaffna 21
 (xxii) Vavuniya 22
06–898
  Town/District Name Town/District No. 
PRiNTEd  aT  ThE  dEPaRTMENT  oF  GoVERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.