

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.06.13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025  
ɼ  ලංකා  ȝජාතාǦƵක  සමාජවාǏ  ජනරජෙɏ  ගැසŸ පƴය
අƯ ɪෙශෂ
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁcations
ANIMAL DISEASES ACT, NO. 59 OF 1992
Order Under Section 5 and Consequential Arrangements
AFRICAN Swine Fever (ASF) is a speci ﬁed and highly contagious disease as de ﬁned in the First Schedule of the Animal 
Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992, and the Orders made thereunder. It is a disease that may occur in any Divisional Secretary’s 
Division in Sri Lanka.
I,  Kasthuri Arachchige Chandrika Hemali Abeyrathna Kothalawala, Director General of Animal Production and Health, by 
virtue of the powers vested in me under the above Act, do hereby declare by this Order that:
 1.  All Divisional Secretary’s Divisions in Sri Lanka are hereby declared as infected or susceptible areas for African Swine 
Fever (ASF) for the purposes and within the meaning of the Animal Diseases Act.
 1.  The pig
 (Sus scrofa) is the susceptible species for this disease; and
 2.  This Order shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Gazette and, unless earlier revoked 
or further extended under Section 5(3) of the Act, shall remain in effect for a period of three months from 
the date of such publication.
1A – G 044559 – 05(06/2025)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
අංක අංක 2440/242440/24 –  – 20252025 őǧ මස  őǧ මස 1313 වැǧ ʆýරාදා වැǧ ʆýරාදා –  – 2025.06.132025.06.13
No. 2440/24 –No. 2440/24 – FRIDAY, JUNE 13, 2025 FRIDAY , JUNE 13, 2025 

<!-- page 2 -->

I ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.06.13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025  
2A
 2.   While this Order remains in force, I, the Director General of Animal Production and Health, hereby prohibit the 
following activities within or in relation to the infected or susceptible areas in order to prevent the spread, control, 
and containment of African Swine Fever (ASF):
 I.  Under Section 5(4) of the Animal Diseases Act, the removal, transportation, driving, or movement of pigs, 
pork, pork products, or risk material within, to, or from the infected or susceptible area without a permit 
issued by the Divisional Government Veterinary Surgeon of the respective Division, as per Form VII of the 
regulations published in 
Gazette No. 1108/23 dated December 03, 1999.
 II.  The slaughter of susceptible animals (pigs) for meat purposes.
 III. Holding or conducting live animal markets involving susceptible animals. 
 IV. Sale, display for sale, offering for sale, storage, supply, distribution, or further processing of pigs, pork, pork 
products, or infected materials without a permit issued by an Authorized Ofﬁcer nominated in this Order.
 V. Without complying with the guidelines issued by the Department of Animal Production and Health, dispose 
of any carcass, part thereof, or contaminated material by placing it in any water body or leaving it in any 
location in a manner that may allow other animals to access, consume, or transport such materials to other 
places.
 VI. Slaughtering, storing, or processing in any slaughterhouse, storage facility, or meat processing center that is 
not approved by an Authorized Ofﬁcer nominated in this Order.
 3. Animals in non-infected breeder, fattener, or commercial farms may be bred, sold, slaughtered, or processed, 
subject to the following conditions:
  I. The breeder farms must be registered with the Animal Breeding Division of the Department of Animal 
Production and Health, Peradeniya.
  II. Animals intended for slaughter, fattening, or breeding must be con ﬁrmed negative for African Swine Fever 
(ASF) by an authorized ofﬁcer in writing.
  III. A copy of the health certi ﬁcate and the test report of purchased, transported, or slaughtered animals must be 
retained at the respective farm or slaughterhouse.
 4.   Admitting animals to affected farms
  I.  Before restocking, the farm must obtain a certi ﬁcate from the range Veterinary Surgeon certifying that the 
premises have been properly disinfected and are in compliance with the prescribed biosecurity measures.
 5.   By virtue of, and in the exercise of, the powers vested in me under the provisions of the Animal Diseases Act, I 
hereby nominate the following ofﬁcers as Authorized Ofﬁcers for the purposes of Section 3(3) of the Act, to take 
action to prevent the commission of prohibited activities set out in Paragraph 02(1) of this Order, and to exercise 
the powers of an Authorized Ofﬁcer under Sections 13 and 14 of the Animal Diseases Act for that purpose:
 1.  Director-Animal Health, Department of Animal Production and Health
 2.  Director-Wildlife Health, Department of Wildlife and Conservation
 3.  Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon-Municipal Councils
 4.  The Provincial Directors of Animal Production and Health of each Province

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.06.13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025  
 5.  Subject Matter Specialist of each Province
 6.  Deputy Director - Animal Health, Department of Animal Production and Health
 7.  The Deputy Directors of Animal Production and Health in charge of each District and District Veterinary 
Surgeons
 8.  The Veterinary Investigation Of ﬁcers of each District
 9.  The Government Veterinary Surgeons of every Division and government veterinarians reporting to him/her
 10.  All Municipal Veterinary Surgeons
 11.  All Wildlife Veterinary Surgeons in the Department of Wildlife Conservation
   K
ASTHURI ARACHCHIGE CHANDRIKA HEMALI ABEYRATHNA KOTHALAWALA 
   Director General
 Department of Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
P.O. Box 13, Gatambe,
Peradeniya,
13th June, 2025.
EOG 06-0115
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.