

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MAHAMEWNAW A SADAHAM SEV A WA
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Mr. Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe M. P . for Colombo District
on 08th February,  2011
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa
——————
——————
[Bill No. 68]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on January 24, 2011)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa
(Incorporation)
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MAHAMEWNAW A  SADAHAM  SEV AWA
WHEREAS an organization called and known as the
“Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa”, its head-quarters and
branches have been established in V aduwawa, Polgahawela,
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
organization according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Mahamewnawa Sadaham
Sevawa (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa  (hereinafter referred to as
the “Sevawa”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter  referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Mahamewnawa
Sadaham Sevawa”, and by that name may sue and be sued in
all Courts with full  power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be,—
(a) to expound the noble discourses preached by
Gauthama the Lord Buddha in simple terms so that it
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Mahamewnawa
Sadaham
Sevawa.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
10
Preamble.
5
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa
(Incorporation)
2
is easily understood in order to free oneself from the
suffering in this existence during Gouthama, the Lord
Buddha’s dispensation itself and to glorify the
Buddhist Dispensation ;
(b) to translate the Three Baskets (Thripitaka) of the
Buddhist Doctrine into simple Sinhala to produce
and distribute Dhamma Books, cassettes, compact
discs and render assistance in that regard with a view
to imparting special knowledge and understanding
about the Buddhist Doctrine and Buddhist
Meditation in the general public and to arrange,
organize and hold lectures, seminar, discussions,
workshops, callsses, charities ceremonies and
pilgrimages ;
(c) to produce and train a set of virtuous laymen and
priests who have built their lives in accordance with
the Buddhist Doctrine and to impart knowledge on
Buddha, Dhamma and Meditation to the Buddhist
public through sil and meditation campaigns held
frequently, and to direct them to Dhamma more and
more ;
(d) to establish branches of Mahamewnawa Meditation
Centers in various parts of Sri Lanka and through
them to train disciplined Bhikkhus well versed in
Dhamma and to establish non- household (Anagarika)
Meditation Centers for women ;
(e) to propagate noble discourses throughout the world,
having established friendly relations with Buddhist
or other organizations located in Sri Lanka or
outside ;
(f) to establish Bodhi Gnana Sabha, Maha Karuna
Foundation, Maha Karuna Suwasewa Foundation,
Haritha Suwa Foundation, Buddhu Puth Mapiya
Dhaham Seva Foundation and such other
10
5
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa
(Incorporation)
organizations and thereby to re-establish and to
contribute for the conservation of Buddhist places of
Religious worship, Temple etc. in the difficult areas
of Sri Lanka, and to extend assistance to accomplish
care of the sick, both clergy and laymen and for social
welfare services ;
(g) to establish and maintain libraries and research
centers and to encourage production and distribution
of books, magazines, periodicals and other
publications ;
(h) to conduct various Buddhist ceremonies, rites, tours,
programmes, sil and meditation campaigns etc.in
Mahamewna Meditation Centers and in other places
in the island ;
(i) to construct preaching halls, Relic Chambers, quarters
for  Bhikkus, meditation cubicles, offices, libraries,
boundary limits, dinning halls for Bhikkus, common
amenities, access roads, buildings and other religious
components in the headquarters at Waduwawa,
Polgahawela and in all the branches of the
Mahamewnawa Meditation Complex, and to protect,
maintain, promote and control the land on which they
are located and the movable and immovable property
connected therewith ;
(j) to construct preaching halls, Relic Chambers quarters
for Bhikkus, meditationa  cubicles, offices, libraries,
boundary limits, dinning halls for Bhikkus, common
amenities, aceess roads, buildings and other religious
components in foreign countries, on invitation to do
so and when donated ; and to protect, maintain,
promote and control the land on which they are
located and the movable and immovable properties
connected therewith ;
10
5
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 5 -->

Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa
(Incorporation)
4
(k) to construct preaching halls, Relic Chambers,
quarters, meditation cubicles, offices libraries,
boundary limits, alms halls, common amenities,
aceess roads, buildings and other religious
components in India (Dambadiva) and to protect,
maintain, promote and control the land on which they
are located and the movable and immovable
properties connected therewith in order to crate
Buddhish revival in that country ; and
(l) to do all such other things as may be necessary for
conducive to incidental to the attainment of all or
any of the aforesaid objects.
4. (a) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rules
in force for the time being of  the Corporation, be administered
by a Board of Trustee (hereinafter referred to as the “Board of
Trustees”) consisting of the members elected in accordance
with such rules.
(b) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub section
(a) of this section the Most Ven. Kiribathgoda Gnananada
Thero, patron shall be the “Chief Patron” who is the founding
chief  of the Board of Trustees.
(c) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Executive Committee of the
Foundation, holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act and any other members.
5. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any Annual General Meeting of the Corporation and
by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for the
following matters :—
(a) the admission of members of the Board of Trustees,
resignation or expulsion of members ;
10
5
15
20
25
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa
(Incorporation)
(b) appointment of various officers, agents and sub
committees of the Corporation and their powers,
conduct, duties and functions ;
(c) the election of the Board of Trustees, the resignation
from or vacation of or removal from office and their
powers, conduct and duties ;
(d) the procedure to be observed in the conduct of
meetings of the Sadaham Sewava, summoning and
holding of meetings, the times, places, notices and
agenda of such meetings and the conduct of business
thereat ;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and achievement of its objects.
6. The income and property of the Corporation however
derived, shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the
Corporation or anyone else.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,
contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shall
be deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
Banks as may be determined by the Board.
(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercising
and discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out of
the fund.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Income and
property of
the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa
(Incorporation)
6
(2) The Corporation and Board of Trustees shall cause
proper accounts to be kept of its income and expenditute,
assets and liabilities and all other transactions of the
Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by the Board.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an accountant issued by
such Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a members of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an accountant issued by such
Institute.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Sevawa existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due
to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Sevawa
on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested on it by virtue of any instrument of
purchase, grant, gifts, testamentary disposition or otherwise
and all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation and shall have full power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same. All the properties should be held under the name of the
Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa
(Incorporation)
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of Most
Venerable Chief Patron or the Treasurer who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to institution or institutions having
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation and which is
or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property among the members of such institution
or institutions and at the discretion of the Board of Trustees
of the Corporation.
13. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or any
other persons except such as are mentioned in this Act and
those claiming by, from, or under them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10
5
15
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution of
the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
20

<!-- page 9 -->

Mahamewnawa Sadaham Sevawa
(Incorporation)
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.

<!-- page 10 -->

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
This Bill seeks to amend to Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006 and the legal
effect of such amendments are to provide for—
(a) the rate of the Economic Service Charge being paid on the turnover arising on or
after April 1, 2008 from the export of any articles or goods not to exceed
                                                                                                                0.25 per centum ;
(b) the remainder if any, of the amount paid as Economic Service Charge paid prior to
March 1, 2006, after the deduction of income tax therefrom, shall be deemed to
be a payment made in respect of the quarter commencing on April 1, 2008 ;
(c) amendments to be made to the Schedule to the Act, by amending the rate in items
4, 5 and 11 of the Scheduele and the insertion of two new items 4a and 11a to such
Schedule.