

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
953
953
wxl 1"812 - 2013 uehs 23 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'05'23
No. 1,812 – THURSDAY , MAY 23, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 956
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 962
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th June, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st May,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I : III of the Gazette No. 1,811 of 17.05.2013 was not published.
Note .—    (i) Registration of Documents (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(ii) Betting and Gaming (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(iii) T elecommunication Levy (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
954
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
955
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
956
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Women Police Constable (Special Task Force)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Recruit Women Police Constable (Special Task Force) in
the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by Registered post to
the abovementioned address to reach on or before 30.07.2013 and
the applied post should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing application. Delayed applications will be
rejected and no application will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary scale.–
Rs. 171,360 - 7 x 1,740 - 10 x 2,160 - 17 x 2,880 - Rs. 254,100.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances :
(a) Arduous duty allowances Rs. 2,000
(b) Combined allowance :
Rs.  
(1) For performing duties in North and 10,500
East areas
(2) For performance duties in other areas 8,400
(c) Free transport facilities.
(d) Free medical facilities to officers (Financial assistance can
be obtained for medical treatment even in a foreign
country.)
(e)  All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(f)  Facilities to imporve skill and talents in sports.
(g) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
(h) Officers will be entitled for the special allowance only during
the period they are attached to the STF consequent to the
basic training.
04. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age limits. – The age should be between 18 and 25
years as at closing date of applications as per the
Gazette Notification.
(b) Educational qualifications :
Should have passed 06 subjects in the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than 2 sittings including
Mathematics and Medium Language. Those who have
passed on two occasions should have passed 5
subjects on the first occasion.
Note.– 01. According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the
number of subjects passed at G . C. E. (O/L) both
passes in science subjects number 41 and 44 will
be treated as one subject and both passes in
Mathematics number 42 and 45 will be treated as
one subject.
02. Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
03. Since optional subjects of Tamil, and Sinhala have
not been included in the stream of  G . C. E. (O/L)
passes in any of these subjects will not be
computed as a pass in the G . C. E. (O/L)
examination.
(c) Physical Requirements :
* Height : 5 feet, 02 inches (minimum).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided they have skills
in sports or have achieved best performance in sports
at national level or they have earned reputation for Sri
Lanka by participating in an international competition.
(d) Visual Requirements .– Vision should not be less than
6/12 with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye
and 6/18 with the other eye it  will be accepted. Colour
vision should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles
or contact lenses will not be eligible.
(e) Other Qualifications :
Applicants should be unmarried. (Divorce will be
considered as married).
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will have to
pass in the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department
of Police. Only those who have passed this test must also get
through the physical fitness test or endurance test.
1,000 meters    5 minutes         14 seconds

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
957
* Those who are successful in the physical fitness or
endurance test will be called for final interview. Only
those who score 40% or more will be called for the written
test.
* The written test consist of two question papers.
* An essay paper not less than 500 words within 45
minutes.
* General knowledge and intelligence test paper  - 1 hour.
6. Medical Test.– Candidates who are selected according to the
priority and merit test will have to get through medical test prior to
their appointment. Unsuccessful candidate will be rejected.
7. Background Inquiries  :
(a) In view of confirm the conduct of the applicant ; inquiries
will be made on the conduct of the applicant, close
relations and friends. Applicants with bad conduct will
not be recuited.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
8. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they entered to the
service.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the language test of secondary level conducted by the
Official Language Department.
* The salary increment of those who fail to pass the
second official language within 5 years from the date of
appointment will be deferred until a pass is obtained.
9. Terms of Engagement. – This posts permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers/
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to a three years recruit period.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereafter be made to give
effect to the language policy of the government.
(c) They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code V olume I and II, Financial
Regulations, Departmental Orders and any other orders
that may be issued by the Inspector General of Police or
by the Government from time to time.
(d) Prior to their confirmation every officer will be required
to pass the prescribed Departmental Examinations. Those
who fail to pass the prescribed examinations or found to
be unfit for Poilce Duties will be liable for removal from
the Police Service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of the
Inspector General of Police. However in terms of P. G. II
No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and I. G's Circular No. 1952/
2006 of 19.10.2006 and circular (Amended) dated
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry showing special
reasons and with permission of Inspector General of
Police.
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a recruit period of 03 years in the Police
Department and if they wish to resign from service before
their recruit is over, they should sign an agreement of
consent to the effect that they are willing to pay at the
time of tendering their resignation, any amount which
was incurred on the training and uniforms etc. together
with any other prescribed payments. Director of Police
Training College will decide it having calculated dues from
the applicants. The acceptance of resignation should
conform to the Section 4. Chapter V of V olume I of the
Establishment Code 1985.
(g) Immediately after recruit Women Police Constables have
commenced their training at the Police Trainign College,
they should subscribed affirmation/Oath to the effect
that they comply with the Police Code of conduct in
terms of the I. G . P. Circular No. 1693/2003.
(h) Immediately after recruit Women Police Constables have
commencement their training at Police College, they should
subscribe the Oath of allegiance to the Public Service, in
terms of the I. GP's Circular No. 1804/2004.
(i) Recruit Women Police Constables who have been
confirmed in the post will have opportunities for
promotions in tersm of the approved scheme of
promotions of the Police Department.
11. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointment to posts in the Public Service published
in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1980.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
958
12. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their application (Originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth certificate,
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (Obtained from
persons who are not related),
(iii) Certificate in substantiating educational qualifications,
(iv) Certificate in substantiating any outstanding sports or
other Extra curricular activities,
(v) A photocopy of certificates of services (if available),
(vi) A photocopy of the Identity Card.
13. (a) Applications who are already in the Public Service must
forwarded their applications through the Heads of their
respective departments and they must be accompanied
with a certificate stating that the officer can be released,
if selected. The applicants who are not adhere to the
above, their applications will be rejected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for to the
address given in paragraph 2 and under no circumstances
should applications be handed over personally to any
officer in the Department.
14. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
SRI LANKA POLICE DEPARTMENT
P
OST OF WOMEN POLICE CONSTABLE (SPECIAL TASK FORCE)
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's birth certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Copy of the NIC should be attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
(d) Police station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) The electorate to which the permanent address belongs :
:–––––––––.
(f) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :–––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––.
(g) Telephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration :–––––.
(If by registration attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are citizen by birth state the place of birth :
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :––––––––.
07. Dte of birth :–––––––––.
(Copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
Age (as at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Height (feet) :––––––––––.  (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
11. Whether married or single :––––––––––.
12. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) Are you a member of the armed forces :––––––––––.
13. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications ? :–––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
15. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service or Regular Police Service  (If so give reference) :
––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police service before ? (If so, under
what circumstances did you leave the service ? give
details) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
959
16. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach a copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
17. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Service Commander) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ? (If so, your application must be submitted
through the respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed Service ?
:–––––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificates)
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or fake. I am aware that I am liable for immediate
termination of my service in the Police Department at any time
even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
05–501
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  AND  RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Calling applications to fill the Vacancies in the Posts of
Veterinary Surgeon in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health service - 2013
APPLICATIONS are being called, under the order of Public Service
Commission, from the Veterinary Science Degree Holders with
relevant qualifications to be selected for the posts of Veterinary
Surgeon in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and
health Service in which 21 vacancies are available as at 30.09.2012.
Applications should be prepared according to the specimen
application attached herewith and forward the same on or before
the date mentioned below to reach the Director General, Department
of Animal Production and Health, P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya
under registered cover. The words "Application for the post of
Veterinary Surgeon in class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal
Production and Health Service" should be marked on the top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
(a) Closing date of the Application is 21.06.2013.
Note.– The complaints with regard to a loss of an application
or delayed in the post will not be considered and the
candidates should undertake the risk of delaying the
application until the last date. The applications of the
applicants who have not fulfilled the basic qualifications
will be rejected.
The applicants recruited for the veterinary surgeon post are
bound to work in the North and Eastern Provinces for 5
years with effect from the appointment date.
01. Method of Recruitment :
(i) The recruitment for the vacancies available in the Posts
of Veterinary Surgeon will be made on the merit list issued
by the Faculty of Veterinary Science of the University of
Peradeniya. The applicants who have obtained the
V eterinary Science Degree from a recognized foreign
University should be registered in the Sri Lanka veterinary
Council in the relevant year in which they have fulfilled
the qualifications and will be placed according to the order
at the end of the merit list.
(ii) Applicants will be called for the interview based on the
No. of Vacancies allocated according to the order of the
merit list and recruitment will be made accordingly. No
marks will be given at the interview.
(iii) Number of appointments and the effective date of the
appointment will be decided as per the order of Public
Service Commission.
02. Terms and conditions of Service. :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
applicant should contribute for the Widows/Widowers
or Orphans' Pensions Fund.
(ii) The selected candidate will be appointed to the scheduled
post in the Sri Lanka Animal Products and Health Service
as applied by them.
(iii) The proficiency in other language should be acquired
within 05 years of the appointment as per the PSC
7/2007 (II). When the entrance language to the Government
service is other than the official language such officers
should acquire the proficiency in one official language
withon 03 years whereas the proficiency in other official
language should be achieved within six (06) years of the
appointment. The proficiency in second language
indicated in the category I should be acquired.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
960
(iv) The other terms and conditions of the service will be
applied as per the Service Minute of Animal Production
and Health Service published in the gazetted dated
31.10.1980 and the amendments for it, issued from time
to time and Provisions in the Establishment Code and the
rules of the Public Service Commission, the terms of the
Public Administrations circulars issued time to time,
Government Financial Regulations and other departmental
orders.
03. Salary Scale :-
This post is entitled to SL - 1 -2006 Rs. 22,935  - 10 x 645 -
8 x790- 17 x 1,050- Rs. 53,555 (The salary step no. SL -
1 -2006 of P. S. C. No. 6./2006 dated 25.04.2006).
04.  Educational Qualifications.– A four year degree in Veterinary
Science obtained from a recognized University.
05. Age limit.– Should be not less than 20 years and not more
than 35 years of age at the closing date of the applications. The
maximum age limit should be 40 years for the applicants with
postgraduate qualifications.
06. Physical Fitness. – The applicant should be physically and
psychologically fit to
(i) Work in any part of the island and ;
(ii) to execute the duties prescribed in the Post.
The physical fitness should be proved by medical
certificates.
07. General Qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should bear an excellent moral character,
(iii) The graduates in Veterinary Science should be registered
in the Sri Lanka veterinary Council and the valid date of
the degree should be on or before 31.12.2007,
(iv) Should have completed every and each qualification at
the closing date of the applications which has been
indicated as the date to complete all required qualifications
with relevence to the post in the notice/Gazette for calling
application.
08. Interview :
8.1 General Interview  : (Marks will not be given)
Objects to be achieved  :– To examine whether the
qualifications are fulfilled which have been indicated in
the recruitment procedure and notification published as
per the service procedure and to examine physical fitness.
09. Mode of Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in A4 paper (22-29cm.)
using the both side,
(ii) candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents at the interview when informed :
(a) Certificate of Birth,
(b) Degree and/or highest educational certificates,
(c) Two certificates of character obtained recently, one
shoule be from the Director of the Course and the
other one from a Professor or from a Lecturer of the
University,
(d) Certificates of the highest examinations passed in
Sinhala, Tamil or English,
(e) Certificates of registration as a veterinary Surgeon
in the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council.
10. Other Conditions :
(i) The public Service Commission reserves the right of
taking decisions pertaining to the matters to which the
regulations that have not been given in these gazette
Notifications,
(ii) The Public Service Commission reserves the decision
of filling or not filling or filling several posts only,
(iii)  If the Sinhala, Tamil and Enlish version of the Gazette
Notifications are non-consistence then the Sinhala
version will be accepted,
(iv) If it reveals that candidate has not fulfilled the required
qualifications his candidature will be cancelled,
(v) If it reveals that a candidate has submitted false
information knowingly or concealed important reasons
he/she will be dismissed from service.
Under the order of Public Service Commission.
K. M. T. K
ENDARAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and
Rural Community Development.
No. 45, St. Michel's Road,
Colombo 03,
02nd May, 2013.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
961
SPECIMEN APPLICATIONS
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF VETERINARY SURGEON IN CLASS II GRADE II OF THE SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE
For Office Use
01. (i) Name with initials
In Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
(ii) Name denoted by initials (In English block capitals) :
02.  N. I. C. No. :
03. Postal address (Change of the address should be informed immediately) :–––––––––––––.
04. The permanent address is belonged :
(i) Provincial Council :–––––––––––––.
(ii) District :–––––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––––.
Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years :–––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––––.
06. ( a) Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––––.
(b) Nationality : (Sinhala -1, Sri Lanka Tamil -2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim -4, Other - 5) :–––––––––––––.
07. ( a) Sex :–––––––––––––.
(b) Civil Status : Unmarried/Married/widow) :–––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualification :
Degree/Post Class University Y ear
Graduate
Qualifications
1.
2.
3.
09. Registration No. of the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council and the date :––––––––––––.
10. Service particulars (If you hold a permanent post at present) :
The Post held Preiod of Service Place Department/
of work Provincial
from               to Council
11. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any  particulars
are found to  be false or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to dismissals without compensation if d etected
after appointment. I   also certify that I have not being convicted for any cirminal offence by any court of law.
––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
962
RECOMMENDA TION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
(Only for the applications in the permanent and pensionable post at present)
I declare that the above applicant Mr/Mrs./Miss................ is holding the post of...................... in this Department /Provincial
Council and the particulars stated in the application are accurate when checked with his/her personal file. He/she can be relea sed/cannot
be released from Department/Provincial/Public service if selected for this post. (Delete the words not relevant).
––––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department,
(Official Stamp.)
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
05-530
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
FOOD  COMMISSIONER'S  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
Supervisory Management Assistant Technical Officer
(Grain Surveyor Grade III)
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for
the Open Competitive Examination to the Recruitment of the vacant
post of Supervisory Management Assistant Technical Officer (Grain
Surveyor Grade III), Food Commissioner's Department.
2. A qualified candidate will be selected for the post of
Supervisory Management Assistant Technical Officer (Grain
Surveyor Grade III) on the basis of order of marks at the written
examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
3. The effective date of the appointment will be decided by the
Food Commissioner and the Food Commissioner reserves the right
of filling the vacancy pertaining to this position.
4. Monthly Salary Scale.– In terms of the Public Administration
Circular 06/2006 (iv) dated 24.08.2007 and the salary code MN
03-2006 A the salary scale is Rs.15,005- 4 x 180 -6 x 240 - 11 x 320
- 20 x 360 - Rs. 27,885. To exceed Rs. 17,485 promoting to Class II
and to exceed Rs. 21,045 promoting to Class I are compulsory.
5. This post is permanent and pensionable.
6. Conditions of Service. – The selected candidate will be
appointed to the post of Supervisory Management Assistant
Technical Officer (Grain Surveyor Grade III) and he/she will be
subject to the general conditions of controlling appointments in
Public Service, terms and conditions of the Scheme of Recruitments
dated 26.07.2012 pertaining to this position, amendments those
have been made and to be made hereinafter. The period of porbation
is three years. The First Efficiency Bar should be passed within the
probationary period of three years and the Second Efficiency Bar
should be passed before the completion of three years subsequent
to the promotion to Grade II. Further, proficiency in Second Official
Language should be obtained, before the completion of five years of
the appointment in terms of the Public Administration Circular 07/
2007.
7. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are required for
the recruitment to the post of Supervisory Management Assistant
Technical Officer (Grain Surveyor Grade III) :
(a) The Candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) The candidate should not be below 18 years of age and
should not be above 30 as at the closing date.
(c) Should possess and excellent character.
(d) Should have the Educational Qualifications given below.
(i) Pass G. C. E. O/L Examination at one sitting with
minimum six (06) subjects including credits to
Sinhala Language, Mathematics, Science, English and
another subject.
(ii) Pass G. C. E. A/L Examination at one sitting with
three subjects including chemistry and Physics.
(e) Should possesses the following Professional
Qualifications. National Certificate in Higher National
Diploma in Technology. HNDT (Agriculture)
(f) Two year experience in food storing, food safety and
fumigation is compulsory.
Every candidate should have fulfilled all the qualifications
relevant to the post on or before the closing date.
8. Examination Procedure :
8.1 This examination consists of two papers. The
examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium and not allowed to change the medium later.
The examination will be held in Colombo.
8.2 Marks Duration
1. Aptitude Test 100 01 hour
2. Food Technology 100 01 hour

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
963
1. Intelligent Test : The candidate's capacity in rational
thinking, analytical thinking and decision making
will be tested in this paper. All the questions should
be answered. It consists of fifty questions including
Multiple Choice Questions and Short Answering
Questions.
2. Food Technology : The candidate's knowledge in
the methods of grain surveying and quality
controlling will be tested in this paper. All the
questions should be answered.
(These papers are made to test the candidate's
qualifications and capability in the discharge of
duties.)
8.3 The candidates who score highest marks out of those
who obtain marks of forty percent (40%) or above for
each paper will be called for the interview. No marks
will be given at the interview and it is only to test the
qualifications of the candidates.
8.4 A priority list based on the aggregate of marks prepared
by the Commissioner General of Examinations
subsequent to the selection of candidates those who
obtained 40% or above marks will be submitted to the
Food Commissioner of Food Commissioner's
Department. Further a result sheet consists of separate
marks for each paper and the aggregate of marks scored
by the candidates individually will be sent to every
candidate who appeared for the examination after the
submission of the priority list.
9. Penalties for false information .– Applicants should be
responsible to provide true information in filling applications. A
candidate who is found to have been ineligible in terms of the rules
and regulations of the examination his/her candidature will be
cancelled prior to the examination, at the examination, subsequent
to the examination or any other situation. If any information
provided by the candidates is found to be false he is liable to be
dismissed from Public Service.
10. Examination Fee.– Examination Fee Rs. 750  may be paid at
any District/Divisional Secretariat office to the credit of revenue
head number 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations and a receipt must be obtained. The fee must be paid
in the name of the applicant and the receipt must be affixed firmly
in the relevant cage of the application. This fee will not be refunded
under any circumstance. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
receipt with the applicant.
11. Applications.– Should to be prepared by using A4 (24cmx
29cm) size papers
(a) Paragraph under 01 to 03 headings should be in the first
page,
(b) The next paragraphs from the paragraph number 04
should be in the other pages.
(c) The name of the examination should be entered in English
in Sinhala Applications and in English in Tamil
Applications.
The Applications should be clearly perfected by the candidates
in their own handwriting. The applications which are not conformed
to the prescribed specimen application, not duly paid the fee, not
perfected accurately and imcomplete will be rejected without any
intimation. The risk of not perfecting applications accurately should
be borne by the candidates themselves. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the application with the candidate and the application
should be conformed to the specimen application published in the
gazette notification. If not the application will be rejected.
11.1 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards for all the candidates those who duly
paid the fee and sent applications to reach on or before
the closing date. However, issuing an admission card to a
candidate will not be considered as a fulfillment of
qualifications to sit for the examination.
11.2 ''Open competitive Examination for Recruitment to
Supervisory Management Assistant Technical officer in
food Commissioners' Department (Class III of Grain
Surveyor) 2013" Should be mentioned at the top left
corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
11.3 The signature of the applicant should be attested by a
Principal of a Government School, Justice of the Peace, a
Commissioned Officer of the Navy, Air Force or Army,  a
Gazetted Police Officer or a permanent Government
officer drawing an annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or above.
11.4 The duly perfected applications should be sent to the
under mentioned address on or before 24th June, 2013
under registered post.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
12. Appearing for the examination .– A notification will be
published by the Department of Examination in the News Papers
immediately after the admission cards are issued to the candidates
and any candidate who did not receive the admission card even two
or three days subsequent to the news paper advertisement should
inform the Department of Examinations as instructed in the notice.
It is advisable to inform the Department of Examinations by sending
a certified copy of the receipt of payments and if you stay outside
Colombo a fax number enabling to send the admission card.
12.1 (i) Candidate should produce either of the following
documents to the Supervisor to prove their Identity.
* National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
* Valid passport.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
964
(ii) The attested admission card should be produce to
the supervisor at the examination.
13. The decision of holding the examination and issuing results
will be the final decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. If the rules and regulations pertaining to this
examination enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations
are violated by a candidate he/she will be penalized by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
14. The decision of the Food Commissioner will be the final
decision regarding  any matter not mentioned above. All the
candidates are bound to abide by the general rules and regulations
published in the gazette.
N. N
IMALKA DIAS,
Food Commissioner.
Food Commissioner's Department,
No. 330,
Union Place,
Colombo 02,
07th May 2013.
SPECIMEN  FORM  OF  APPLICATION
wdydr flduidßia fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wëlaIK l<ukdlrK
iyldr ;dlaIKsl ks,OdÍ
^OdkH iólaIl III jk fY%aKsh& ;k;=rg n|jd .ekSu i|yd jk
újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2013
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO SUPERVISORY
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT TECHNICAL OFFICER IN FOOD COMMISSIONERS
DEPARTMENT (CLASS III OF GRAIN SURVEYOR) 2013
(For Office Use Only)
* Language Medium of the Examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the Relevant Number in the Cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals : PERERA A. B. C.)
1.2 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
1.3 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No :
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to send the Admission Card :–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
4.0  Date of Birth:
Year : Month : Date :
Age as at 30.06.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
5.0 Educational Qualifications :
5.1 G. C. E. O/L :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Admission No. :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
5.2 G. C. E. A/L :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Admission No. :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
13
24
5.3 If graduated from a recognized university :
(i) University :
(ii) Degree :
(iii) Admission No :
6.0  V ocational Qualifications :
(i) –––––––––––––
(ii) –––––––––––––
7.0  Experience :–––––––––––.
8.0  Have you been convicted before a court of Law?
Yes N o
* (Indicate 3in the relevant cage)
(if "Yes" explain) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
965
9.0 Description of the receipt that paid the examination fee :
(i) District Secretariat's division which paid the fee :–––––.
(ii) No of the receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) The amount paid :––––––––––.
Affix the receipt firmly
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
10.0 Applicant's Declaration :
(a) I do hereby honourly declare that the particulars given by
me in the application are true and correct. I am aware that
if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or
incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified.
(b) If my declaration is found to be false I am liable to be
disqualified before selection and to dismissal if detected
after the appointment.
(c) Further I declare that I am bound to abide by the conditions
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations
pertaining to the holding of this examination.
(d)  I will make no alternations to any fact mentioned in the
application.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of Applicant's Signature :
I certify that Mr/Mrs./Ms................. who is submitting this
application is personally known to me, has paid the due examination
fee, has attached the paid receipt and he/she has placed his/her
signature in my presence on the................ day of..................2013.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :––––––––––.
Position :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Should be supported by the official frank)
05-576
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
AMENDMENT
FOLLOWING revisions are included/added for the examination
notifications published in the gazette notification dated 26.04.2013
for the recruitment to class III of Sri Lanka Education Administrative
Service.
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class III of
the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service on the
Basis of Merit and Seniority – 2012(2013)
Paragraph 09(ii)
The examination fee can be paid to any District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat in the Island to be credited to income heading
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Other details in the paragraph 09(ii) remain unchanged.
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class
III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service -
2012(2013)
Paragraph 09(ii)
The examination fee can be paid to any District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat in the Island to be credited to income heading
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Other details in the paragraph 09(ii) remain unchanged.
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
Class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative
Service - 2012(2013)
Paragraph 11(ii)
The examination fee can be paid to any District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat in the Island to be credited to income heading
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Other details in the paragraph 11(ii) remain unchanged.
05–850