

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SAMMANTHURAI THABLEEKUL ISLAM
ARABIC COLLEGE (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 53 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 28th September, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October  02, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2009
1
[Certified on 28th September, 2009]
L.D.—O. (INC) 23/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SAMMANTHURAI  THABLEEKUL  ISLAM
A RABIC  COLLEGE
WHEREAS an Institution called and known as the
“Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College” has
heretofore been established in Sammanthurai for the purpose
of effectually carrying out and transacting all objectives and
matters connected with the said Institution :
AND WHEREAS the said Institution has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the serveral objectives
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sammanthurai
Thableekul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Act,  No.53
of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are  members of  the
Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College (hereinafter
referred to as the “Institution”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of
“Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College” and by
that name may sue and be sued with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and to alter the  same at its
will and pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the
Sammanthurai
Thableekul Islam
Arabic College.

<!-- page 3 -->

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2009
2
3. The general objectives for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide better facilities to the adherents of the
Islamic faith for spiritual education based on Islamic
principles ;
(b) to provide necessary training in the Islamic faith to
those educated as Ulamaas and to perform service
in Thahwa which inculcates pious habits and shuns
evil things ;
(c) to provide leadership training to those who complete
their spiritual education under paragraph (a) and to
follow the Islamic way of life individually and to
lead the Islamic Society in the Islamic way of life ;
(d) to provide facilities to the adherents of the Islamic
faith to learn other arts necessary to achieve these
objectives ;
(e) to provide vocational training to the adherents
of the Islamic faith in order to enhance their
livelihood ; and
(f) to provide self-training to the adherents of the Islamic
faith in order to promote social, cultural, educational
and economic development.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written Law, the Corporation  shall have the power —
(a) to draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable
instruments and to open, operate, maintain
and close accounts in any bank or banks ;
(b) to receive or collect grants and donations in
cash or in kind from local or foreign sources ;
General
objectives of the
Corporation.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2009
3
(c) to invest all funds vested in or owned by the
Corporation on securities or to use them for
purchasing lands, buildings, goods or furniture
required by the Corporation ;
(d) to construct buildings or to get buildings
constructed in the Corporation’s own land or
any other land held by the Corporation ;
(e) to select a Board of Sponsors to advise, to
fund the Corporation and to achieve the
objectives of the Corporation ; and
(f) to do all such other things that are incidental
or conducive to the attainment of the
objectives of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules made under section 7 of this Act, be administered by a
Board of Directors consisting twenty five members elected
in accordance in with rules of the Corporation.
(2) The First Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the Members of the Board of Directors of the
Institution holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) There shall be a General Council consisting of
such number of members elected or nominated in accordance
with the rules made under section 7 of this Act.
(2) It shall be lawful to the General Council to advice
to the Board of Directors in all matters.
(3) The Board of Directors shall subject to the approval
of the General Council exercise, perform and discharge its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
General Council.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2009
4
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at an annual general meeting or at any general meeting
and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) classification of membership, fees payable by each
class of member, their admission, expulsion or
resignation;
(b) election of the Board of Directors and General
Council, resignation from, vacation of or removal
from office as office bearers and powers, duties and
conduct of the Board of Directors and General
Council;
(c) appointment, dissmissal, powers, duties, functions
and conduct of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors
and General Council, the Corporation or any sub
Committee thereof, filling of vacancies, notices and
agenda of such meetings, the quorum therefore and
the conduct of business thereat;
(2) The rules made by the Corporation under subsection
(1) shall be altered, added to, amended or rescinded at a like
meeting and in like manner as a rule made under subsection
(1) from time to time, at any annual general meeting.
(3) Every rule made,  altered, added, amended or rescinded
under this section shall be approved by the General
Council.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Institution on the
date of commencement of this Act, shall be paid by the
Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due to, and
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2009
5
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Institution
on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose
of this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift or testamentary disposition or otherwise and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
10. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, fees or grants for and on
account of the Corporation shall be deposited in the name of
the Corporation in one or more banks as the Board of
Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund any expenditure
incurred by the Corporation in the exercise, perform and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Board of Directors shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Funds of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
audits .

<!-- page 7 -->

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2009
6
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
President, Secretary and Treasurer, who shall sign their
names to instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
13. If upon the winding up or the dissolution of the
Corporation there remains after the satisfaction of all debts
and liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall
not be distributed among the members of the Corporation,
but shall be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions, having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which is or are by its or their rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its or their
members. Such institution or institutions shall be determined
by members of the Corporation at or immediately before the
time of dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or any body politic or corporate.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on the
dissolution of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Sammanthurai Thableekul Islam Arabic College
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2009
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMA TION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.