

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 8.25 Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July  22, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 22nd July, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
TEA AND RUBBER ESTATES (CONTROL OF
FRAGMENTATION) (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  20  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005
1
Short title.
2 —PL 000288 — 5,650 (05/2005)
[Certified on 22nd July, 2005]
L. D. — O. 28/2004
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  TEA  AND  RUBBER  ESTA TES (CONTROL  OF
FRAGMENTATION ) ACT ,  NO . 2 OF  1958
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Tea and Rubber Estates
(Control of Fragmentation) (Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005.
2. The long title of the Tea and Rubber Estates (Control
of Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958 (hereinafter referred to
as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended by the
substitution for the words “Tea and Rubber Estates”, of the
words Tea, Rubber and Coconut Estates”.
3. (1) In the principal enactment and in any other written
law, there shall be substituted—
(a) for the words “Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of
Fragmentation) Act”, of the words “Tea, Rubber and
Coconut Estates (Control of Fragmentation) Act”;
(b) for the words “Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of
Fragmentation) Board”, of the words “Tea, Rubber
and Coconut Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
Board” ; and
(c) for the words “tea or rubber estate”, of the words
“tea, rubber or coconut estates”.
(2) Every reference to “Tea and Ruber Estates (Control of
Fragmentation) Act” and “Tea and Rubber Estates (Control
of Fragmentation) Board” in any notice, notification, contract,
communication, form or other document shall be read and
construed as a reference respectively to “Tea, Rubber and
Coconut Estates (Control of Fragmentation) Act” and to “Tea,
Rubber and Coconut (Control of Fragmentation) Board”.
Amendment of
the long title of
Act, No. 2 of
1958.
“Tea and Rubber
Estates (Control
of
Fragmentation)
Act” and “Tea
and Rubber
(Control of
Fragmentation)
Board” to be
referred to as
“Tea, Rubber
and Coconut
(Contorl of
Fragmentation)
Act” and “Tea,
Rubber and
Coconut
(Control of
Fragmentation)
Board”
respectively.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005
4. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the addition immediately after subsection (2) of
that section of the following new subsection—
“(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
the Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971, an
estate of not less than one hundred hectares  in extent
or a small holding constituted by the division of a
coconut estate into lots shall not be registered under
such Act unless such division has been made in
consequence of a transfer of ownership or a partition
of such coconut estate with the prior consent of the
Board and accordance with the conditions, if any,
subject to which such consent has been granted.
In this subsection “small holding” means any
coconut small holding registered or deemed to have
been registered under the provisions of the Coconut
Development Act, No.  46 of 1971.”; and
(2) in the marginal note to that section, by the
substitution for the words “and the Rubber Control
Act.” of the words “the Rubber Control Act and the
Coconut Development Act.”.
5. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal of
paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of that
subsection, and the substitution therefor, of the
following paragraphs :—
“(a) the Director-General of the Rubber
Development Department ;
(b) the Director-General of the Department of
Agriculture ;
Amendment of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005
3
 
(c) the Tea Commissioner appointed under
section 9 of the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law,
No. 14 of  1975;
(d) the Chairman of the Coconut Cultivation
Board established under section 2 of the
Coconut Development Act,  No. 46 of 1971 ;
(e) the Chairman of the Urban Development
Authority nominated under section 4 of the
Urban Development Law, No. 41 of 1978;
(f) the Chairman of the National Housing
Development Authority appointed under
section 3 of the National Housing
Development Authority Act, No. 17 of 1979;
(g) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Plantation Industries,
nominated by such Minister ;
(h) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance, nominated
by the Secretary to that Ministry ; and
(i) three other persons appointed by the Minister
(in this section referred to as “appointed
members”) to represent the interest of tea,
rubber and coconut plantations”; and
(2) in subsections (3), (4) and (5) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “unofficial member”
wherever those words appear in that section, of the
words “appointed member.”.
6. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as  follows :—
(a) by the substitution in paragraph (a) of that section
for the words “tea estate, and” of the words “tea
estate ;”;
Amendment of
section 16 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005
(b) by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that section
for the words “a rubber estate,” of the words “a rubber
estate, and ” ; and
(c) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b) of
that section of the following new paragraph :—
“(c) with the concurrence of the Coconut
Cultivation Board established under section
2 of the Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of
1971, engage any officer of the Coconut
Cultivation Board for the purpose of
investigating or reporting on any matter
connected with any such application made to
the Board as relates to a coconut estate,”.
7. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 12 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 12A and section 12B  of that
enactment :—
12A. (1) There shall be established for the
purposes of this Act a Fund, consisting of
money’s contributed to such Fund under
subsection (2) of this section, which shall be
administerd by the Board.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the Rubber Control Act (Chapter
436), Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971
and the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of
1975, the Rubber Controller, the Coconut
Development Authority and the Sri Lanka Tea
Board respectively, shall contribute annually
towards the Fund established under subsection
(1), such sum of money as shall be determined
from time to time by the Minister in consultation
with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.
Insertion of new
section 12A and
12B in the
principal
enactment.
“Establishment
of a Fund.

<!-- page 6 -->

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005
5
(3) The moneys lying to the credit of the
Fund shall be utilized for purpose of meeting
all expenses incurred by the Board in the
carrying out of its duties under this Act,
including the payment of remuneration to the
appointed members of the Board.
12
B . (1) The Board shall, in respect of each
calendar year, cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure of the
Fund and cause annual statement of accounts
to be prepared in such form and containing such
particulars as may be prescribed.
(2) The accounts prepared by the Board
under subsection (1) shall be submitted to the
Auditor-General for purpose of audit, before the
lapse of three months from the end of each
Calender year.”.
8. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section —
(a) by the substitution in paragraph (a) of that
subsection for all the words from “from the
moneys of the Tea Control Fund” to the end of
that paragraph, of the words “from the Capital
Fund notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of 1975,”;
(b) by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that
subsection for the words “Rubber Control Act,
and”, of the words “Rubber Control Act;”;
(c) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b)
of that subsection, of the following new
paragraph :—
“(bb) where such meeting, investigation or
report is concerned with an application
made to the Board relating solely to a
Audit of
Accounts of
the Fund.
Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005
Insertion of new
section 23
A  of
the principal
enactment.
coconut estate, be defrayed from the
moneys of the Coconut Development
Authority notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in the Coconut
Development Act, No. 46 of 1971, and”;
(d) by the substitution for paragraph (c) of that
subsection, of the following paragraph :—
“(c) where such meeting, investigation or
report is concerned with an application
made to the Board relating jointly to a
tea, a rubber and a coconut estate or
relating partly to one and partly to
another of such estates, be defrayed from
the moneys lying to the credit of the
Fund established by section 12
A  of this
Act.”, and”.
(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and the
substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—
“(2) The emoluments of the Secretary and other
officers and servants appointed by the Board
shall be paid out of the Fund established by
section 12A  of this Act.”.
9. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 23 of the principal enactment, and
shall have effect as section 23
A  of that enactment :—
23A . (1) No officer of a local authority shall
approve a blocking out plan of any land which
is a tea estate, a rubber estate or a coconut estate,
as the case may be, within the meaning of the
Act, unless a certificate of consent under section
14 of  the Act has been issued by the Board
relating to such estate.
(2) Any officer of a local authority who acts
in contravention of the provisions of subsection
(1), shall be guilty of an offence under this Act
“Prohibition
of approval
of blocking
out plans by
certain
officers of
local
authorities
without a
certificate
from the
Board.

<!-- page 8 -->

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005
7
Amendment of
section 25 of the
principal
enactment.
and shall on conviction after summery trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a term of
imprisonment of not exceeding one year or a
fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees
or to both such imprisonment and fine.
(3) Any approval granted in respect of a
blocking out plan in contravention of
subsection (1) shall be null and void and shall
have no legal validity whatsoever.”.
10. Section 25 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(a) by the insertion immediately before the definition
of the expression “partition action” of the following
definitions :—
‘ “coconut estate” means a coconut estate of not less
than four hectares in extent which, under the
Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971, is or is
deemed to be an estate registered under that Act ;
“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created and established by or under any
law to exercise, perform and discharge powers,
duties and functions corresponding to or similar
to the powers, duties and functions exercised,
performed and discharged by any such Council or
Sabha;’;
(b) in the definition of the expression “rubber estate”,
by the substitution for the words “forty hectares”, of
the words “twenty hectares” ; and
(c) in the definition of the expression “tea estate”, by
the substitution for the words “forty hectares”, of
the words “twenty hectares”.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005
Existing Board
to continue until
the constitution
of new Board.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
12. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
principal enactment, the members of the Tea and Rubber
Estates (Control of Fragmentation) Board holding office
immediately prior to the date of commencement of this Act,
shall continue to hold such office so long and so long only
until the constitution of the Board under subsection (1) of
section 10 of the principal enactment as amended by section
5 of this Act.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 10 -->

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005
9
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.