

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1993$11 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 16 jeks nodod - 2016'11'16
No. 1993/11 - WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  16, 2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
INLAND  REVENUE  ACT,   No.  10  OF  2006
Notice
IT is hereby notified under Section 97(1)(b) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, that the bilateral Agreement for
affording relief from double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion, entered into on 03.04.2014 between the Government
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Singapore is set out in the
Schedule hereto, has been approved by Parliament by resolution passed on 23.09.2015.
     D
R. R. H. S. S AMARATHUNGA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance.
Ministry of Finance,
Colombo 01,
04th November 2016.
AGREEMENT   BETWEEN   THE   GOVERNMENT   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI
LANKA   AND   THE   GOVERNMENT   OF   THE   REPUBLIC   OF   SINGAPORE   FOR   THE   AVOIDANCE  OF
DOUBLE   TAXATION   AND   THE   PREVENTION   OF   FISCAL   EV ASION   WITH   RESPECT  TO  TAXES   ON
INCOME
The Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of
Singapore, desiring to conclude an agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion
with respect to taxes on income.
Have agreed as follows :
A
RTICLE I
PERSONS COVERED
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
2A
ARTICLE 2
TAXES COVERED
1. This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behlaf of a Contracting State or of its political
subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income,
including taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property.
3. The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are in particular.
(a) in Singapore :
- the income tax
(hereinafter referred to as “Singapore Tax”) ;
(b) in Sri Lanka :
- the income tax, including the income tax based on the turnover of enterprises entered into agreements with the
Board of Investment.
(hereinafter referred to as “Sri Lanka Tax”).
4. The Agrement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date of
signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Contracting
States shall notify each other of any significant changes made in their taxation laws.
ARTICLE 3
GENERAL   DEFINITIONS
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context  otherwise requires :
(a) the term “Singapore” means the Republic of Singapore and, when used in a geographical sense, includes its
land territory, internal waters and territorial sea, as well as any martitime area situated beyond the territorial sea
which as been or might in the future be designated under its national law, in accordance with international law,
as an area within which Singapore may exercise sovereign rights of jurisdiction with regards to the sea, the sea-
bed, the subsoil and the natural resources ;
(b) the term “Sri Lanka” means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as defined in the
Constitution, including its land territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them as well as
the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf where the Democratic Socialist Repulic of Sri Lanka
exercises or may hereafter exercise sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with international law
and its national legislation ;
(c) the terms “a Contracting State” and “the other Contracting State” mean Singapore or Sri Lanka as the context
requires ;
(d) the term “person” includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons ;
(e) the term “company” means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax
purposes ;
(f) the terms “enterprise of a Contracting State” and “enterprise of the other Contracting State” mean respectively
an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the
other Contracting State ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
3A
(g) the term “international traffic” means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a
Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting
State ;
(h) the term “competent authority” means ;
(i) in the case of Singapore, the Minister  for Finance or his authorized representative ;
(ii) in the case of Sri Lanka, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue or an authorized representative of the
Commissioner General ;
(i) the term “national”, in relation to a Contracting State, means ;
(i) any individual possessing the nationality or citizenship of that Contratcting State ; and
(ii) any leagl person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in that
Contrating State ;
(j) the term “tax” means Singapore tax or Sri Lanka tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any penalty
or fine imposed in respect of any default or omission in relatioin to the taxes to which this Agreement applies.
2. As regards the application of the Agreement at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein
shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the laws of that State for the
purposes of the taxes to which the Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing
over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
A
RTICLE 4
RESIDENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “resident of a Contracting State” means any person who, under
the laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of incorporation, place of
management or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State and any political subdivision, local
authority or statutory body thereof.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph I and individual is a resident of both Contracting States then his
status shall be determined as follows :
(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him ; if
he has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State
with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests) ;
(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent
home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an
habitual abode ;
(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the
State of which he is a national ;
(d) in any other case, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual
agreement.
3. Where by reason of he provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is situated. If
the State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent authorities of
the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
4A
ARTICLE 5
PERMANENT   ESTABLISHMENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “permanent establishment” means a fixed place of business
through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term “permanent establishment” includes especially :
(a) a place of management ;
(b) a branch ;
(c) an office ;
(d) a factory ;
(e) a workshop ; and
(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.
3. The term “permanent establishment” also encompasses :
(a) a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project, a drilling rig or ship used for exploration or
development of natural resources, including supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only if such
site, project or activities lasts for a period of more than 183 days within any 12-month period ;
(b) the furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise of a Contracting State through
empolyees or other personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only if activities of that nature
continue (for the same or a connected project) within the other Contracting State for a period or periods
aggregating more than 183 days within any 12-months period.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provsions of this Article, the term “permanent establishment” shall be deemed
not to include :
(a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging
to the enterprise ;
(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
storage, display or delivery ;
(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
processing by another enterprise ;
(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or
of collecting information, for the enterprise ;
(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any
other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character ;
(f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this
combination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent
status to whom paragraph 7 applies - is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting
State and has, and habitually exercises, in that Contracting State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
5A
enterpise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that state in respect of any activities which
that person undertaken for the enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph
4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent
establishment under the provisions of that paragraph.
6. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall,
except in regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other
Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commission agent or
any other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.
However, when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, and
conditions are made of imposed between that enterprise and the agent in their commercial and financial relations which
differ from those which would have been made between independent enterprises, he will not be considered an agent of an
independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
8. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls  or is controlled by a company
which is a resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a
permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the
other.
A
RTICLE 6
INCOME  FROM   IMMOV ABLE  PROPERTY
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture
or forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. The term “immovable property” shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in
which the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock  and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources, ships, boats and aircraft shall not be
regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisoins of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting or use in any other form
of immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise
and to income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
A
RTICLE  7
BUSINESS   PROFITS
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise
carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise
carries on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as
is attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be attributed
to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise
engaged in the same or similar activities unde the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with the
enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
6A
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions all expenses,
including executive and general administrative expenses, which would be deductiable if the permanent establishment were
an independent enterprise, insofar as they are reasonably allocable to the permanent establishment, whether incurred in
the Contracting State in which the permanent  establishment is situated or elsewhere.
4. No profit shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the entreprise.
5. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in paragraph
2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as may be
customary, the method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance with the
principles contained in this Article.
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall
be determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement,
then the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
A
RTICLE 8
SHIPPING  AND   AIR   TRANSPORT
1. Profits derived in a Contracting State by an enterprise of the other Contacting State from the operation of
ships in international traffic may be taxed in the first mentioned State, but the tax so charged shall be reducded by an
amount equal to 50 per cent thereof.
2. Profits derived in a Contracting State by an enterprise of the other Contracting State from the operation of
aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in that other State.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business
or an international operating agency.
4. For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall
include :
(a) profits from the rental on a bareboat basis of ships or aircraft ; and
(b) profits from the use, maintenance or rental of containers (including trailers and related equipment for the
transport of containers) used for the transport of goods or merchandise.
where  such rental or such use, maintenance or rental, as the case may be, is incidental to the operation of ships or aricraft
in international traffic.
ARTICLE 9
ASSOCIA TED  ENTERPRISES
1. Where
(a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital
of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control of capital or an enterprise of
a Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
7A
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations
which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for
those conditions, have  accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be
included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State and taxes accordingly - profits
on which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included
are profits which would have accured to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the
two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall
make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment,
due regard shall be had to the other provisons of this Agreement and the competent authorities of the Contacting States
shall, if necesary, consult each other.
3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply where judicial proceedings have resulted in a final decision that
by action giving rise to an adjustment of profits under paragraph 1, one of the enterprises concerned is liable to penalty
with respect to fraud.
A
RTICLE 10
DIVIDENDS
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends
is a resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividdends is a resident of the other
Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed :
(a) 7.5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company which holds directly
at least 25 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividends ;
(b) 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.
The provisions of this paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which
the dividends are paid.
3. The term “dividends” as used in this Article means income from shares, “jouissance” shares or “jouissance”,
rights, mining shares, founders’ shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in profits, as well as income
from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the
State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisons of paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situatd therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services
from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with
such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 of Article 14, as the case may be, shall
apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are
paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company’s undistributed
profits to a tax on the company’s undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist
wholly or partly or profits or income arising in such other State.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
8A
ARTICLE 11
INTEREST
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises  and according to the laws
of that state, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged sha ll
not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2
(a) interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to the Government of the other Contracting State shall be
exempt from tax of the first-mentioned Contracting State ; and
(b) interest derived and beneficially owned by a banking or financial institution of a Contracting State shall be
exempt from tax in the other State.
4. The term “interest” as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not
secured by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor’s profits, and in particular, income
from government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prize attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this
Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment
or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where,
however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was
incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment of fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to
arise in the State in which the permanent establishment of fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them
and some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Agreement.
A
RTICLE 12
ROYALTIES
1. Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in
that other State.
2. However, such royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws
of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall
not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties.
3. The term “royalties” as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use
of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films or films or tapes

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
9A
used for television or radio broadcasting any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for
the use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial,
commercial or scientific experience.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties arise, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where,
however, the person paying the royalties, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties was incurred, and such
royalties are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in the
Contracting State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them
and some other person, the amount of the royalties, having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid,
exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such
relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the
payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions
of this Agreement.
A
RTICLE 13
CAPITAL  GAINS
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article
6 and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed base
available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing independent
personal service, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the whole
enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international
traffic, or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State.
4. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of shares of a company, other than shares
traded on a recognized stock exchange, deriving more than 50 per cent of their value from immovable property situated in
the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
5. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this Article
shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
A
RTICLE 14
INDEPENDENT  PERSONAL   SERVICES
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services or
other activities of an independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following circumstances, when
such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State :
(a) if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
his activities ; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in
that other Contrating State ; or

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
10A
(b) if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any
12-month period, in that case, only so much of the income as is derived from his activities performed in that
other State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term “professional services” includes especially independent, scientific, literary, artistic, educational or
teaching activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.
ARTICLE 15
DEPENDENT   PERSONAL   SERVICES
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by
a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contacting State in
respect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if ;
(a) the recipient is present in that other Contracting State for a period of periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183
days in any 12-month period ; and
(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of that other Contracting State
; and
(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in that other
Contracting State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment
exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable
only in that State.
A
RTICLE 16
DIRECTORS’   FEES
Directors’ fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member
of the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
ARTICLE 17
ARTISTES   AND   SPORTSPERSONS
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his personal
activities exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an artiste or a sportsperson accrues not to the
artiste or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7, 14
and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the artiste or sportsperson are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to income derived from activities exercised in a Contracting
State by an artiste or a sportsperson if the visit to that State is wholly or mainly supported by public funds of one or both
of the Contracting State or political subdivisions or local authorities or statutory bodies thereof. In such case, the income
shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the artiste or the sportsperson is a resident.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
11A
ARTICLE 18
PENSIONS   AND   ANNUITIES
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, any pension or other similar remuneration, and any
annuity, paid to a resident of a Contracting State from a source in the other Contracting State in consideration of past
employment in that other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term “annuity” means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time under an obligation to made the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in money
or money’s worth.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions paid and other payments made under a public scheme
which is part of the social security system of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.
A
RTICLE 19
GOVERNMENT   SERVICE
1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension paid by a Contracting State or a political
subdivision, a local authority or a statutory body thereof to and individual in respect of services rendered to
that State or subdivision, authority or body shall be taxable only in that  State.
(b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting
State if the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who :
(i) is a national of that State ; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering that services.
2.(a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by a Contracting State or a political subdivision, a local authority
or a statutory body thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivison, authority
or body shall be taxable only in that State.
(b) However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and
a national of, that other State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages and other similar remuneration,
pensions and annuities, in respect of  services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or
a political subdivision, a local authority or a statutory body thereof.
A
RTICLE 20
STUDENTS
Payments which a student or business apprentice, who is or was immdeiately before visiting a Contracting State
a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of his
education or training, received for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State,
provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State. This is notwithstanding that such student or business
apprentice may receive remuneration for personal services rendered in the first-mentioned Contracting State, where such
remuneration is incidental to, or is to supplement, the payments received by him for the purpose of his education or training.
A
RTICLE 21
OTHER   INCOME
Items of income not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement and arising in a Contracting State may
be taxed in that State.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
12A
ARTICLE 22
ELIMINATION  OF   DOUBLE   TAXATION
1. In Singapore, double taxation shall be avoided as follows :
Where a resident of Singapore derives from Sri Lanka which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement,
may be taxed in Sri Lanka, Singapore shall, subject to its laws regarding the allowance as a credit against Singapore tax of
tax payable in any country other than Singapore, allow the Sri Lanka tax paid, whether directly of by deduction, as a credit
against the Singapore tax payable on the income of that resident. Where such income is a dividend paid by a company
which is a resident of Sri Lanka to a resident of Singapore which is a company owing directly or indirectly not less than 10
per cent of the share capital of the first-mentioned company, the credit shall take into account the Sri  Lanka tax paid by
that company on the portion of its profits out of which the dividend is paid.
2. In Sri Lanka, double taxation shall be avoided as follows :
(a) Where a resident of Sri Lanka derives income from Singapore which in accordance with the provisons of
this Agreement, may be taxed in Singapore, Sri Lanka shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income
of that resident, an amount equal to the tax paid in Singapore.
Such deduction shall not, however, exceed the portion of the tax as computed before the deduction is given,
which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in Singapore.
(b) Where in accordance with any provision of the Agreement income derived by a resident of Sri Lanka is
exempt from tax in Sri Lanka, Sri Lanka may nevertheles, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining
income of such resident, take into account the exempted income.
A
RTICEL 23
NON - DISCRIMINATION
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be
subjected.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activites.
3. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to :
(a) residents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for tax purposes
which it grants to its own residents ; or
(b) nationals of the other Contracing State those personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for tax purposes
which it grants to its own nationals who are not residents of that State or to such other persons as may be
specified in the taxation laws of that State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to
any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned Sate are or may be subjected.
5. Where a Contracing State grants tax incentives to its nationals desinged to promote economic or social
development in accordance with its natioinal policy and criteria, it shall not be construed as discrimination under this
Article.
6. The provisons of this Article shall apply to the taxes which are the subject of this Agreement.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
13A
ARTICLE 24
MUTUAL   AGREEMENT   PROCEDURE
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him
in taxation not in accordance with the provisons of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a resident
or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 23, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national. The case must
be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with the
provisions of the Agreement.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able
to arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other
Contracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement
reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the laws of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting State shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any
difficulties or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting State may communicate with each other directly for the purpose
of reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraph.
A
RTICLE 25
EXCHANGE   OF   INFORMATION
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant
for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws concerning
taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local
authorities insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement. The exchange of information is not restricted
by Articles 1 and 2.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same
manner as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities
(including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or procecution
in respect of the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above.
Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public
court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation.
(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the
other Contracting State ;
(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration  of
that or of the other Contracting State ;
(c) to suppy information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or
trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public)
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State
shall use its information gethering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not
need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the
limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be  construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to
supply information solely becuase it has no domestic interest in such information.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
14A
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply
information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in an
agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interest in a person.
ARTICLE 26
MEMBERS   OF   DIPLOMATIC   MISSIONS   AND   CONSULAR   POSTS
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts
under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
ARTICLE 27
ENTRY   INTO   FORCE
1. Each of the Contracting States shall notify to the other the completion of the procedures required by its law for the
bringing into force of this Agreement.
2. The Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later of these notifications and its provisions shall have
effect :
(a) in Singapore :
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source on amounts liable to be paid, deemed paid or paid (whichever is
the earliest) on or after 1 January of the calendar year next following the year in which the Agreement
enters into force ;
(ii) in respect of tax chargeable (other than taxes withheld at source) for any year of assessment begining on
or after 1 January in the second calendar year following the year in which the Agreement enters into
force ; and
(iii) in respect of Article 25, for request made on or after the date of entry into force of this Agreement.
(b) in Sri Lanka :
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source on amounts paid or payable on or after 1 January of the calendar year
next following the year in which the Agreement enters into force ;
(ii) in the case of other taxes, in respect of taxes levied for taxable year beginning on or after 1 January of the
calendar year next following the year in which the Agreement enters into force ; and
(iii) in respect of Article 25, for requests made on or after the date of entry into force of this Agreement.
3. The Convention between the Government of the Republic of Singapore and the Government of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to
Taxes on income, signed on 29 May 1979, shall terminate and cease to have effect when the provisions of this Agreement
come into force in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article.
A
RTICLE 28
TERMINATION
This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may
terminate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end
of any calendar year after the expiration of a period of five years from the date of its entry into force, in such event, the
Agreement shall cease to have effect :

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
15A
(a) in Singapore :
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source on amounts liable to be paid, deemed paid or paid (whichever is the
earliest) after the end of that calendar year in which the notice is given ;
(ii) in respect of tax chargeable (other than taxes withheld at source) for any year of assessment beginning on
or after 1 January in the second calendar year following the year in which the notice is given ; and
(iii) in all other cases, after the end of that calendar year in which the notice is given.
(b) in Sri Lanka :
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source on amounts paid or payable on or after the end of that calendar year
in which the notice is given ;
(ii) in the case of other taxes, in respect of taxes levied for taxable year beginning on or after 1 January of the
calendar year next following the year in which the notice is given ; and
(iii) in all other cases, after the end of that calendar year in which the notice is given.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned being duly authorised thereto have signed this Agreement.
DONE in duplicate at Colombo on this 03rd day of April 2014 in the English and Sinhala languages, both texts
being equally authentic in the case of divergence in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
Sgd/Prof. G. L. PEIRIS, Sgd/K. S HANMUGAN ,
For the Government of For the Government of
the Democratic Soicalist Republic of the Republic of Singapore.
Sri Lanka.
PROTOCOL
The Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Singapore
have agreed at the signing of the Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income, that the following provisions shall form an integral part of the said Agreement.
1. With reference to the Agreement the term “statutory body” means a body constituted by statute and performing
only non-commercial functions which would otherwise be performed by the Government of a Contracting State.
2. With reference to Article 8 (Shipping and Air Transport) of the Agreement, it is understood that interest on funds
connected with the operations of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the
operation of such ships or aircraft where such interest is incidental to the operations of ships or aircraft in international traffic
in such case, the provisions of Article 11 shall not apply in relation to such interest.
3. With reference to Article 12 (Royalties) of the Agreement, it is understood that in relation to payments for
computer software, such payments are royalties only if the payments are made for the right to use and exploit the copyright
in the program.
4. With reference to Article 18 (Pensions and Annuities) of the Agreement, it is understood that paragraph 3 of this
Article shall be applicable to payments made, in the case of Singapore, under the Central Provident Fund.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 16.11.2016
16A
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned being duly authorised thereto have signed this Protocol.
DONE in duplicate at Colombo on this 03rd day of April 2014 in the English and Sinhala languages, both texts
being equally authentic. In the case of divergence in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
Sgd/Prof. G. L. PEIRIS, Sgd/K. S HANMUGAN ,
For the Government of For the Government of
the Democratic Soicalist Republic of the Republic of Singapore.
Sri Lanka.
12 - 334
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.