

<!-- page 1 -->

405 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
405
¡â¤ 1,440 _ 2006  ¡ïÀòà¨à 07 Éæ¾ł  ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.04.07
No. 1,440 – FRIDAY, APRIL  07, 2006
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 408
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 413
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  12th April,  2006, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 31st March,  2006.
L
AKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,439 of 31.03.2006 was not published.
Note.— (i) Banking (Admendment) Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of February 24, 2006.
(ii) Betting and Gaming Levy (Admendment) Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of February 24, 2006.
(iii) Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Admendment) Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 03, 2006.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
406
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

407 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1
proficiency Test in one of the Official languages within one year;
Grade II Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency
Test (where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads
of  their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from
Public officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the
Public  Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications
should  state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take
up the new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
408
Posts - Vacant
SRI   LANKA   REGULAR  AIR   FORCE
Officer Cadet Vacancies
VACANCIES exist  in the Sri Lanka  Regular  Air  Force   for   Officer
Cadets in the following branches :—
(a) General Duties Pilot Branch,
(b) Administrative Branch,
(c) Administrative Regiment Branch,
(d) Operations Air Branch
2. Applications are invited from male candidates who possess
the qualifications given below:-
(a) General Duties Pilot Branch.- A minimum of six passes at
the GCE (O/L) examination with four credits including a
credit in Mathematics (Mathematics II if an applicant of
year 1999/2000) and English language and an ordinary pass
in Science (Science II if an applicant of year 1999/2000)
Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional
subject not sonsidered) and ordinary passes in three subejcts
at the GCE (A/L) examination (New and Old syllabus) in
Physical/Bio Science subjects in one sitting.
(b) Administrative Branch.- A minimum of six passes at the
GCE (O/L) examination with four credits including a credit
in Mathematics (Mathematics II if an applicant of year
1999/2000) and English language and an ordinary pass in
Science (Science II if an applicant of year 1999/2000) Sinhala/
Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subject
not considered) and at the GCE (A/L) examination (New
and Old syllabus in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce  subjects
in one sitting.
(c) Administrative Regiment Branch.- A minimum of six passes
at the GCE (O/L) examination with four credits including a
credit in English language, Mathematics/Science
(Mathematics II/Science II if an applicant of year 1999/
2000) and an ordinary pass in either subejct (Mathematics/
Science) and Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting (additional
and optional subject not considered) and ordinary passes in
three subjects at the GCE (A/L) examination (New and Old
syllabus) in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce/Art subjects
in one sitting.
(d) Operations Air Branch.- A minimum of six passes at the
GCE (O/L) examination with four credits including a credit
in Mathematics (Mathematics II if an applicant of year
1999/2000) and English language and an ordinary pass in
Science (Science II if an applicant of year 1999/2000) Sinhala/
Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subject
not considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the
GCE (A/L) examination (New and Old syllabus)  in Physical/
Bio Science  subjects in one sitting.
(3) Other Requirements .- Candidates must fulfil the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular
Air Force :-
(a) Nationality .- Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(b) Age .- Not less than 18 years of age and not more than 22
years as at 30 June 2006;
(c) Height .- Male 5’5" and above;
(d) Weight .- BMI =Weight (kg) < 25
  Height (m)2
(e) Chest .- Male 32" (Minimum);
(f) Vision Colour Standard .- CP2;
(g) Visual Acuity .- Left eye 6/6 Right eye 6/6 (without spectacles)
(h) Civil Status .- Candidates must be unmarried. No Cadet will
be permitted to marry whilst under training and for a further
period of one (01) year from the date of Commissioning.
04. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
05. Applications of candidates who do not fulfil the requirement
of para 02 and 03 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview
the height and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height and
vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and
who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
06. Conditions of Service :-
(a) The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as a cadet
on a regular engagement in the same manner as for other
ranks and will undergo a Basic Combat Training Course. On
successful completion of training, the duration of which will
depend on the branch, the cadet allocated with his enlistment
as an other rank will lapse and he will recive a permanent
Commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
(b) Cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri
Lanka or abroad as decided by the Commander of the Air
Force in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
(c) During the priod of training as cadets and thereafter personnel
will be subject to Air Force Law.
(d) Every cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, equipment
and medical facilities.
(e) During the period of training, a Cadet will be accommodated
in an Air Force Mess and will be provided with food.

<!-- page 5 -->

409 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
(f) In the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating his candidature
for a commission during training, the parent or guardian will
be required to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses
incurred up to that time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on
account of such cadet.
(g) If at any time during his course a cadet is reported by the
authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or
due to causes within his control to qualify for a commission,
his parent or guardian will be required to refund to the Sri
Lanka Air Force all expenses incurred on his training and
will be required to enter into a bond to this effect with the
Commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of the
Government of Sri Lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 20
of the application form in respect of sub paragraphs (f) and
(g) above, and forward them together with the application.
Parent or guardian will be required to enter in to a bond
subsequently in this form with the Republic of Sri Lanka
prior to the appointment of these candidates as cadets.
(j) Candidates who possess the requirement as per para 02 and
03 will be called for the Preliminary Interviews and if
successful will be called for the Officer Quality Tests.
Candidates who pass the Officer Quality Tests will be called
for Medical Examinations (all candidates selected will be
medically examined under Sri Lanka Air Force arrangements)
and if applicable Flying Aptitude Tests. Candidates who
successfully complete these tests will be called for the Final
interview. The required number of candidates per Branch
will be selected according to merit at these interviews and
tests.
(k) A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He
is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance
and Batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
(l) A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to public
servants.
(m ) All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
(n) All officers are governed by the Air Force Act, and orders
issued from time to time.
7.  Official  Language Requirements.-The selected candidates
will be required to comply with any rules already made or may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the
Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the
provisions the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances :-
(a) Consolidated pay rate .- The scale of consolidated pay
applicable to Officer Cadets and Commissioned Officers
shall be as follows :
Officer Cadet – Rs.115,320/-p.a.
Pilot Officer – Rs.133,380/-p.a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 157,500-9x3,780=Rs. 191,520/-p.a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 180,180-9x3,780=Rs. 214,200/-p.a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 202,860-7x3,780-1x4,200-
2x6,300=Rs.246,120/-p.a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 214,980-2x7,740-5x850=
Rs.273,360/-p.a.
Group Captain – Rs. 276,540-7x11,880=Rs. 359,700/-p.a.
(b) Other  Allowances:-
(1) Interim  allowance  1of Rs. 1000 per moth;
(2) Interim allowances II Rs. 1,200 per month;
(3) Cost of living Allowance Rs. 1,000 per month;
(4) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250  per month after five
years of Service;
(5) Hardly allowance Rs. 600 per month;
(6) Enhanced Allowance Rs. 2,400 per month for  those
serving in operational areas;
(7)  Enhanced allowance Rs. 3,000.00 per month for those
serving in operational areas (Rs. 100) will be paid for
each working day at only Jaffna Peninsula) ;
(8) Uniform Upkeep allowance Rs. 255  per month;
(9) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (If permitted
to live out);
(10) Ration allowance Rs. 6213.64 per  month (If permitted
to live out);
(11) Qualification pay  where applicable (up to a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month);
(12) 03 sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for Officer,
Spouse and Children);
(13) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month;
(14) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items;
(15) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable);
(16) Married Officers permitted to live-out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel to place of work within 30 miles
radius;
(17) Flying pay (upto a maximum of Rs. 1,700) per month
for those in the General Duties Pilot Branch;
(18) Rent allowances for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. (Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,500 —Rs. 3,850 per month);
(c) Pensions/Gratuities.- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 as amended from time
to time. All Officers are contributors to the Widows and
Orphans Pension (Armed Force) Scheme. Rate of
contributions are as per Widows and Orphans Pension
(Armed Forces) scheme regulations 1970.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
410
  9. Instructions to  Applicants :
(a) Applications should be  submitted  in applicant’s own  hand
writing  in terms  of the  form  specified below. All  cages of
the   application should  be completed neatly with as  much
details as  possible.  Applications should be forwarded under
registered cover to : “Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri  Lanka
Air Force, Ekala,  Kotugoda” so as to reach him not later
than 1200 noon on 26th April 2006.The envelope  enclosing
the application should be marked “Application for
Cadetship in ..............Branch". Applications received after
the closing date and not in accordance with the requirements
of this notification and not in registered post mail will not be
entertained.
(b) Candidates   who  are   in Government  service/ Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should   forward  their
applications  through their Heads  of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments & should bear a
certificate to the  effect that   the candidate will  be released
if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when summoned for interviews or when
called upon to do so :-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted)
(2) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications
required for the Branch applied for,
(3) Certificates of Trade/Technical training and or experience
(if any) obtained from a recognized institution,
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should
be from the Principal of the last school attended and the
other from the responsible person who has the know of
the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer (If employed);
(5) Certificate in support of sports activities  cadeting, etc.
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents
when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original  copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals
of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
10. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualificatin if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after
selection.
11. Selection Interviews etc :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates so
selected will be required to undergo tests as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview of those
selected candidates by a selection board appointed by the
Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed
inwriting of the place, time and date of such interviews.
Travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he is to produce his National Identity Card issued
by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving his testimonial.  Any form of canvassing or
attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will
result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
G. D. P
ERERA ,
Air  Marshal,
Commander of the  Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air  Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
A PPLICATION  FOR   OFFICER  CADET  IN THE   ..................... BRANCH   OF
THE  SRI LANKA   AIR  FORCE
1. Full Name  (As per the  National  Identity  Card):————.
2. National Identity Card Number :————.
3. (a)  Postal Address : ________,
(b)  Permanent Address  : ________,
(c)  Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address  : ________,
(d)  District  : ________,
(e)  Electorate  : ________,
(f)   GS Division  : ________,
(g)  Telephone Number  : ________,
4.Date of Birth  : ________,
Age (as at 30th June, 2006) :
Years :––– , Months : –––– , Days : ––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

411 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
5. Married or Single  : ________,
6. Nationality  : ________,
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by Descent or by registration
and if latter, quote  number  and date  of certificate).
7. Height  :……… feet and ……… inches
8. Particulars of School and/  University  :
Name of Date  of Public Examinations
School/ & subjects passed
University  Joining Leaving  (including Grading)
9.  Particulars  of employment since  leaving School/University:
Name  & Address Nature of Period of service
of Employer Employment From To
10. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of Birth Occupation Present Address
     Father
     Mother
11. Any special qualification  for  the post :————.
12. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of
teams and competitions participated with  dates and standards
achieved) :————.
13. Other  achievements of note  at School/University or with
outside  organizations. (Give details with  dates) :————.
14. Any previous service in the Armed Force  or V olunteer  Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :————.
15. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri  Lanka  Air  Force or
any of the Armed Services or Police, if   so give details and  the
outcome  of such  applications :————.
16. Have  you being   convicted or   bound  over by  a civil  or
military court, if so give  details :————.
17. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint  Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.) reasons for   termination of
employment :————.
18. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
19. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour  that answers given to the  above  questions
are, to the  best of my knowledge and belief, correct. I have  read and
understood  the procedure which  will be adopted and  the rules
which will apply in respect of  those candidates who are  selected for
Commission in the Sri Lanka  Air  Force   published in the Gazette of
the  Republic of Sri Lanka.
 ________,
Date  : -------------, Signature of Applicant.
20. Declaration to be   signed by the  Parent or Guardian of the
applicant :
(a) I am the Parent/Guardian of ................. who is an
applicant for  a cadetship in the Sri Lanka  Air  Force
and who  has  signed the declaration in Cage  19 of the
form  of application above ;
(b) I hereby undertake to be  responsible in the  event above
named applicant being  selected  for  a course of training
for  the following ;
(i) To refund  to the  Republic  of  Sri Lanka in the
event of the  above named  applicant voluntarily
terminating  his  candidature for  a Commission
during  his   period   of  training all  expenses
incurred up to   that  time  by the Republic  of Sri
Lanka  on account of such  applicant ;
(ii) To refund to the  Republic of Sri Lanka  in the
event  of the  above  named  applicant reported on
by the  authorities   as being   unsuitable  (For
reasons of misconduct or due  to causes within his
own  control) for the  issue of a  Commission all
the  expenses incurred  on his account by the
Republic of Sri Lanka.
   -------------,
Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Date  : -------------,
Name  : -------------,
  (in block capitals)
Address  :  -------------,
-------------,
Signature of First Witness.
Date  : -------------,
Name  : -------------,
  (in block capitals)
Address  : -------------,
-------------,
Date  : -------------, Signature of Second Witness.
Name  :-------------,
  (in block capitals)
Address  : -------------,
04-23

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
412
PROMOTION  TO  CLASS  2  GRADE  I  IN  SRI
LANKA  PRINCIPALS'  SERVICE BASED  ON  MERIT
AND  SENIORITY
APPLICATIONS are entertained from those who are qualified to
consider for promotion to Class 2 Grade I in Sri Lanka Principals'
Service based on Merit and Seniortity under the provisions in paras
17 and 18 of the Minute of Sri Lanka Principals’ Service published in
the Gazette Extra Ordinary No. 1086/26 dated 02.07.1999. For this
purpose applications should be prepared and forwarded in
conformity with the specimen form.
02. (a) A Government Officer who is confirmed in his post and
having a satisfactory period of not less than five years service in
Class 2 Grade II in Sri Lanka Principals’ Service as on 31.12.2005
will be eligible for promotion to Class 2 Grade I upon merit and
seniority.
Note : A satisfactory period of service shall mean.
(i) that he has earned all his increments on due dates during
the period of five years immediately preceeding on
31.12.2005 to be qualified for promotion;
and
(ii)that he has not been disciplinarily punished for any offence
committed during such period.
03. Salary .- Rs. 186,180 - 5 x 7,740 - 5 x 8,580 - Rs. 267,780/-
04. Applicant should ensure that all cages from 1-13 in the
application form are filed in completely. Application is liable to be
rejected if any of the cages are not completed. Application should be
prepared in duplicate so that it could be forwarded to the Secretary
of the Ministry of Education in time to reach on or before the closing
date of 05.05.2006 and one copy should be sent under registered
post addressed to the Zonal Director of Education in charge of the
applicant’s Education Zonal Office. The other copy should be sent
under registered post addressed to the Secretary, Ministry of
Education, “Isurupaya” Battaramulla. All applications received
should be recommended and sent to the Ministry of Education by
the Zonal Director of Education before 05.05.2006.
05. Method of Application :
(a) Application :
The application should be prepared by applicant in
conformity with the specimen form annexed hereto by
using both sides of 8 1/2" x 12" size paper.
(b) Applications which are not in conformity with the
specimen form in all respects will be rejected. Complaints
relating to applications which are lost or delayed in the
post will not be entertained.
(c) Applications will not be acknowledged.
06. Interview for checking eligibility :
(a) The number of officers who would be called for the
interview for testing their eligibilty will be equivalent to
the number of vacancies to be filled. This group will include
the officers who possess the highest seniority according
to their period of service in the relevant class and grade.
(The period or periods of service in Classes or Grades
indicated at 2(a) will be considered as the seniority in the
Class or Grade). For this purpose, the minimum level will
be decided by the Public Service Commission. If the number
of officers qualified for promotion on seniority and merit
under this Gazette Notification is more than the number of
vacancies available, action will be taken to fill the vacancies
by holding a Competitive Examination.
(b) The verification of the eligibility of applicants will be
done by a Interview Board appointed by the Public Service
Commission.
The effective date of appointment to Sri Lanka Principals’ Service
by promotions will be decided at the discretion of the Public Service
Commission. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to
fill a certain number of vacancies or to refrain from filling all vacancies.
Regarding any  matters not provided for by these regulations, action
will be taken as decided by the Public Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
A
RIYARATNE  HEWAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
“Isurupaya”,
Battaramulla.
20th March, 2006.
Specimen Form
PROMOTION  TO  CLASS  2  GRADE  I   IN  SRI  LANKA
PRINCIPALS’  SERVICE  BASED  ON  SENIORITY  AND
MERIT
 (One copy should be sent to the Ministry of Education through
the Zonal Director of Education in charge of the Zonal Education
Office and the applicant should send the other copy directly
addressed to the Ministry)
01 (i) Surname with initials :———.
(As indicated in the Pay Register-in English)
In Sinhala :———.
(ii)Names denoted by initials (in English) :———.
In Sinhala :———.
02. (i) School served at present and address: (In English):——
In Sinhala :———
(ii)Post held at present :————.
(iii)Date of first appointment as a teacher :———.

<!-- page 9 -->

413 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
03. Date of birth :——————————-
Age as on 31.12.2005
years. —— months—— Days.
04. School serving belonging to :
(i) Provincial Education Department :————
(ii)Zonal Education Office :————.
05. (i) Date of appointment/Absorption to Class 2 Grade II
under the present Sri Lanka Principals’ Service Minute
bearing No. 1086/26:————.
(ii)Period of service in Class 2 Grade II (on 31.12. 2005)
Years…………., Months…………., Days…………..
06. Educational Qualifications :————.
07. Professional Qualifications :————.
08. Details of Training Courses participated :————.
09. Punishments in brief (other than warnings) imposed for
any offence committed during the continuous period of
five years preceding to 31.12.2005:————.
10. Whether salary increments were earned during the five
years preceding to 31.12.2005 If not earned, please give
reasons ::————.
11. Details of any Special Project done in the field of
education :————.
12. If there is any disciplinary enquiry pending against you,
present position :————.
13. Leave availed of during the period of 5 years preceding to
31.12.2005 :————.
Number of days leave availed of
Year
Casual V acation Duty No pay
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
I hereby declare that I am eligible to considered for promotion to
Class 2 Grade I in Sri Lanka Principals’ service based on seniority
and merit and that the information furnished by me in this application
are true and correct.
——————,
Signature of applicant.
Date :———.
Certificate of the Head of Department
I certify that all information furnished by the officer in this
application were compared with his/her personal file and the relevant
documents and that they found to be correct and that he/she is
suitable to be considered for promotion to Class 2 Grade 1 in Sri
Lanka Principals’ Service on seniority and merit.
————,
Signature,
Zonal Director of Education/Head of Department.
(with Name and Official Frank)
Date :————————.
04-34
Examination, Results of Examinations &c.,
CEYLON  GERMAN  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
INSTITUTE – MORATUWA
Admission to Full-Time Courses (under the National
Apprenticeship Scheme – 2006)
APPLICATIONS are invited for admission of Male and Female
Trainees for the year 2006 minimum qualifications required are as
follows : –
01. (a) Age.– Between 16 and 22 years as at 31.03.2006.
(b) Education.– Passed in 06 subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination including Sinhala/Tamil Language (medium of instruction)
and Mathematics in one sitting.
Note.– Those who are already following full-time courses in the
under-mentioned Institutions are not eligible to apply for the full-
time courses of CGTTI.
(i) V ocational training Institute – Borella (an affiliated body of
CGTTI) ;
(ii)Apprentice training Institute – Moratuwa ;
(iii)Automobile Engineering Training Institute-Orugodawatta ;
(iv) Ceylon German Railway Training Institute-Ratmalana.
02. Medium of Examination and Training Instruction.– Medium
of Examiantion and Training Instruction will be in Sinhala and Tamil.
03. Examination Centers.– A written examination for admission
will be conducted at centers in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Badulla and
Anuradhapura as indicated in the application form given below.
Having an additional examination centers would be considered if
there are over 100 applicants form other provinces. Applicants who
possess the requisite minimum qualifications will be allowed to sit
the admission test provided examiantion fees referred to in column 5
below have been paid. The above test will be based on Mathematics,
General knowledge, Gneral Intellingence and Technical Drawing.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
414
04. Examination Fees.–  Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 250).
Method of Payment.– The payment can be made to the any Bank
of Ceylon Branch to credi to the Account nubmer 681490 maintained
at Moratuwa Branch. Paying voucher of the Bnak should be attached
to the application. The application should be forwarded together
with the paying voucher of the Bank. Paying vouchers that are
defaced or erased will not be accepted. Application which do not
contain a credit voucher to the vlaue of Rs. 250 will be rejected.
Examination fees will not be refunded to candidates those who are
not appearing for the examination or on rejection of their applications
or for any other reason.
05. Primary Selection.– Primary selection of candidates for
admission will be merit based on the written examination and those
who obtain the required highest marks will be summoned for an
aptitude test and interview for the final selection and influencing in
any form would lead to disqualification. Cutoff marks for less
privileged provinces would be decided by the Governing Board.
(Less privileged are decided according to Sri Lanka Examination
Department).
06. Final Selection.– Those who obtain highest marks from aptitude
test and interview would be considered for final selection. 40% marks
are allocated for aptitude test and 60% for the interview. Extra
curricular activities are specially considered at the interview. The
selected candidates will have to pass a medical exmination and those
who fail the medical test wil be discontinued.
07. Training Courses.– Selected candidates will be allowed to
follow the under mentioned courses of training depending on the
aptitude they show in the test conduct after 09 months of basic
training.
Automobile – 4 Years
Millwright/Fitter – 4 Years
Power Electrical – 3 1/2 Years
Air Cond. & Ref. – 3 1/2 Years
Tool Machinery – 3 1/2 Years
Auto Electrical – 3 Years
Diesel Mechanics – 3 Years
Welding – 3 Y ears
08. Bond to be signed.– Selected candidates will have to enter in
to an agreement with the National Apprenticeship and Industrial
Training Authority.
09. Applications.– The application should be prepared as per
specimen form given below and forwarded to the Personale Manger,
Ceylon - German Technical Training Institute, No .582, Galle Road,
Mount-Lavinia, under registered post. The envelop in which
application is enclosed should be marked “CGTTI/62/2006” on the
top left-hand corner.
10. Closing date of Application.– Application will be accepted till
25th May, 2006 and late applications will not be entertained.
Personal Manager.
Ceylon-German Technical Training Institute,
No. 582, Galle Road,
Mount - Lavinia.
Telephone No. : 605625
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Application for Admission to Full-Time Course – 2006
THE CEYLON-GERMAN TECHNICAL TRAINING
INSTITUTE – MORATUWA (UNDER THE NA TIONAL
APPRENTICESHIP)
1. (a) Full Name : ————.
(b) Name with initials : ————.
2. (a) Postal Address : ————.
(b) District : ————.
(c) Province : ————.
3. (a) Date of Birth : ————.
(b) Exact age on 31.03.2006 :
Years : ————, Months : ————, Days : ———.
4. Sex – Male/Female : ————.
5. Educational Qualifications : Subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) should
be indicated.
Index No. :————. Year : ————.
Subjects Grade
1. ………………………… ……………………………
2. ………………………… ……………………………
3. ………………………… ……………………………
4. ………………………… ……………………………
5. ………………………… ……………………………
6. ………………………… ……………………………
7. ………………………… ……………………………
8. ………………………… ……………………………
6. National Identity Card or Postal Identity Card No. :————.
7. (a) Medium in which the candidate wishes to sit the admission
test :————.
(b) Center at which the Candidate wishes to sit the admission
test : ————.
(Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Anuradhapura and Badulla)

<!-- page 11 -->

415 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
8. (i) Name the Bank of Ceylon Branch, where payment was
made : ————.
(valid copy of the paying in voucher to the value of Rs. 250
is attached herewith)
9. I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and accurate, I am also aware that if any particulars contained
here in are found to be incorrect, I am liable for disqualification/
dismissal before or after selection.
————.
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
04-01

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
416
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 3 1 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 13 -->

417 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2006
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2006
APRIL 07.04.2006 Friday — 24.03.2006 Friday 12 noon
12.04.2006 Wednesday –– 31.03.2006 Friday 12 noon
21.04.2006 Friday –– 07.04.2006 Friday 12 noon
28.04.2006 Friday –– 12.04.2006 Wednesday 12 noon
MAY 05.05.2006 Friday — 21.04.2006 Friday 12 noon
11.05.2006 Thursday –– 28.04.2006 Friday 12 noon
19.05.2006 Friday –– 05.05.2006 Friday 12 noon
26.05.2006 Friday –– 11.05.2006 Thursday 12 noon
JUNE 02.06.2006 Friday — 19.05.2006 Friday 12 noon
09.06.2006 Friday –– 26.05.2006 Friday 12 noon
16.06.2006 Friday –– 02.06.2006 Friday 12 noon
23.06.2006 Friday –– 09.06.2006 Friday 12 noon
30.06.2006 Friday –– 16.06.2006 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.