

<!-- page 1 -->

Section Title PageTHE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of November 17, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 22. 11. 2017)
SECURITIES EXCHANGE
Ordered to be published by the Minister of National Policies and
Economic Affairs
to establish the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka; to
regulate market institutions, public offers of securities, market
intermediaries; to deal with market misconduct; and to meet the challenges
encountered by securities markets in an effective and efficient manner
and  to  repeal  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  of  Sri  Lanka
Act, No. 36 of 1987 and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Price : Rs. 247.00 Postage : Rs. 70.00
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

Section Title Page
i
Section Title Page
1. Short title and date of operation 1
2. Application of the Act 1
3. Interpretation 2
PART I
E
STABLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSION
4. Object and purpose of this Part 16
CHAPTER 1
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka
5. Establishment of the Securities and Exchange Commission
of Sri Lanka 17
6. Constitution of the Commission 17
7. Term of office of appointed or nominated members 18
8. Resignation, disqualifications from being a member of the
Commission and removal 18
9. Remuneration of members 20
10. Meetings of the Commission 20
11. Chairman of the Commission 21
12. Members to disclose any interest 21
13. Proceedings, acts or decisions not invalidated by reason
of a vacancy 21
14. Seal of the 
Commission 21
CHAPTER 2
Powers, Duties and Functions of the Commission
15. Principal functions, powers and duties of the Commission 22
16. Additional powers of the Commission 24
17. Representation of the Commission in legal proceedings 25
CHAPTER 3
Director-General and Staff of the Commission
18. Director-General 26
19. Staff of the Commission 27
Contents

<!-- page 3 -->

Section Title Page
ii
20. Appointment of officers of public corporations to the staff
of the Commission 28
21. Members, officers and servants of the Commission deemed to
be public servants 29
22. Commission deemed to be a Scheduled Institution within the
meaning of the Bribery Act 29
PART II
MARKETS AND MARKET INSTITUTIONS
23. Object and purpose of this Part 29
CHAPTER 1
Exchanges
24. Prohibition against establishing an unlicensed  exchange 30
25. Application to operate an exchange 30
26. Duties of the Exchange 33
27. Cancellation of licence of an exchange 34
28. Effect of cancellation of the licence of an exchange 37
29. Closure of the exchange in an emergency 37
30. Listing requirements of a licensed  exchange 38
CHAPTER 2
Clearing House
31. Interpretation 40
32. Prohibition against establishing an unlicensed clearing house 41
33. Application for a licence to establish or operate a clearinghouse 42
34. Duties of a Clearing House 44
35. Cancellation of licence of a clearing house 45
36. Effect of cancellation of licence to a clearing house 48
37. Default rules 49
38. Default proceedings of a clearing house to take precedence 49
39. Supplementary provisions relating to default proceedings 50
40. Duty to report on completion of default proceedings 50
41. Net sum payable on completion of default proceedings 51

<!-- page 4 -->

Section Title Page
iii
42. Right of relevant office holder to recover certain amounts
arising from certain transactions 51
43. Clearing Member to be party to certain transactions as principal 53
44. Market collateral delivered to a clearing house 54
45. Application of collateral subject to a market charge 54
46. Transfer of Securities in settlement 54
47. Purchase and sale of securities 55
48. Defences in criminal or civil liability 55
CHAPTER 3
Central Depository
49. Prohibition against operating an unlicensed central depository 56
50. Application to operate a central depository 56
51. Duties of a central depository 58
52. Cancellation of licence of a central depository 58
53. Effect of cancellation of licence of a central depository 61
54.
Securities Account 62
55. Book entry securities lodged with the central depository 62
56. Record of entry in depositor’s account 62
57. Effect of securities held in trust by the central depository 62
58. Validation 63
CHAPTER 4
General Provisions
59. Rules of a market institution 63
60. Power of Court to order observance or enforcement of rules
of market institutions 65
61. Control of substantial shareholders of a market institution 65
62. Power of the Commission to make a preliminary order to
impose prohibition 66
63. Appointment of directors to a market institution 68
64. Alteration of material particulars of a market institution 70
65. Rights of an exchange or a clearing house 70
66. Defence in criminal or civil liability 70
67. Provision of assistance to the Commission 71

<!-- page 5 -->

Section Title Page
iv
68. Annual reports 71
69. Duties of an auditor of a market institution 72
70. Obligation to submit periodic reports 74
71. Payment of annual fee 74
72. Prohibition against holding out 74
73. Power of the Commission to review its own decision 74
PART III
I
SSUE OF SECURITIES
74. Object and purpose of this Part 74
CHAPTER 1
Trade in Securities
75. Offer of Securities 75
76. Approval of the Commission for issue of securities 76
77. Prospectus or similar document 77
78. Commission to issue stop orders 77
79. Purchase, sale or transfer of securities 79
80. Power of the Commission to require the production of documents 79
81. Power of the Commission to issue directives to listed public
companies 82
82. Duty not to furnish false information to the Commission 82
83. Duty not to make false statements to market institutions 83
84. Appointing Directors or Chief Executive Officer 83
85. Duties of an auditor of a listed public company 83
86. Prohibition against undue influence 85
CHAPTER 2
Market Intermediaries
87. Prohibition against holding out as a market intermediary 86
88. Requirement to be licensed with the Commission 86
89. Application for a licence or renewal of a licence as a market
intermediary 86
(Private Member's Bill)

<!-- page 6 -->

Section Title Page
v
90. Refusal to grant or renew a licence 87
91. Minimum financial requirement 90
92. Requirement to register with the Commission 90
93. Application for registration or renewal of registration 90
94. Grounds for refusal to register or renew registration 91
95. Power to vary conditions or restrictions 93
96. Duration of licence or registration 93
97. False and misleading statements to the Commission 94
98. Duty to notify the Commission 94
99. Prohibition against holding out as an agent 95
100. Cancellation or suspension of licence or registration 95
101. Trading in securities by market 
intermediaries 96
102. Lending and borrowing of securities without the consent
of the client 96
103. Duty of an auditor of a market intermediary 97
CHAPTER 3
Protection of Clients’ Assets
104. Interpretation 98
105. Protection of client’s assets 98
106. Rules on business conduct 99
107. Liability for unreasonable recommendations 100
108. Disclose certain interests in securities 101
109. Internal procedures and processes 103
110. Register of market intermediaries and registered persons 103
PART IV
TRADE IN UNLISTED SECURITIES
111. Object and purpose of this Part 104
CHAPTER 1
Establishment of a recognized Market Operator
112. Establishment of a market operator 104
113. Requirement to register a market operator 105
114. Application for registration 105

<!-- page 7 -->

Section Title Page
vi
CHAPTER 2
Role of a recognized Market Operator
115. Functions and duties of a  recognized market operator 105
116. Trading on a platform 106
117. Rules to be made by the Commission 106
118. Withdrawal of registration 107
119. Review of the performance of a recognized market operator 108
120. Exemption for market operator 108
121. Application of the provisions of the Act to unlisted securities 108
PART V
MARKET MISCONDUCT
122. Object and purpose of this Part 109
123. Application of this Part 109
CHAPTER 1
Prohibited Conduct
124. False trading and market rigging transactions 110
125. Stock market manipulations 112
126. False or misleading statements 112
127. Fraudulently inducing persons to deal in securities 113
128. Use of manipulative and deceptive devices 113
129. Exempt certain class of transactions 114
130. Penalty for offences 114
CHAPTER 2
Insider Trading
131. Information 114
132. Information generally available 115
133. Material effect on price or value of securities 115
134. Reference to “procure” 115
135. Prohibited conduct of person in possession of inside  information 115
136. Information in possession of an officer of a company 117

<!-- page 8 -->

Section Title Page
vii
137. Information in possession of a partner or an employee
of partnership 119
138. Exceptions in relation to underwriting and sub
underwriting 121
139. Exceptions in relation to schemes of arrangement 121
140. Exception for a company with knowledge of its intention 122
141. Exception in relation to an individual 122
142. Unsolicited transaction by market intermediaries 123
143. Exception in relation to collective investment schemes 123
144. Parity of information defence 124
145. Prosecution need not disprove the defences 125
146. Jurisdiction of the Courts 125
147. Who may prosecute 125
148. Civil liability for contravention of certain sections 125
149. Civil action by the Commission 125
PART VI
FINANCE
150. Object and purpose of this Part 128
CHAPTER 1
Funds of the Commission
151. Levy of a Cess 129
152. Cess Fund 129
153. Fund of the Commission 130
154. Financial Year 130
155. Audit of Accounts 131
CHAPTER 2
Fund to Provide Compensation to Investors
156. Compensation Fund 131
157. Appointment of Compensation Committee 131
158. Application for Compensation 132
159. Payment of Compensation 132

<!-- page 9 -->

Section Title Page
PART VII
GENERAL
160. Object and purpose of this Part 133
CHAPTER 1
Provisions relating to the Institutional Framework
161. Production of documents and disclosure of information 133
162. Inquiries and investigations 134
163. Issue of freezing orders 136
164. Inquiry by Complaints Management Committee 137
165. Supplementary service providers 138
166. Implementation of agreements or MOUs 139
167. Sharing of information and cooperation 139
168. Whistleblower protection 141
169. Furnishing of information to the Minister 141
170. Protection for action taken under the Act 142
CHAPTER 2
Provisions relating to the Enforcement Mechanism
171. Offences 142
172. Acts applicable to criminal process 144
173. Compounding of offences 145
174. Power of the Commission to impose administrative sanctions 145
175. Power of the Commission to protect investors’ assets 148
176. Power of the Commission to apply to Court for certain orders 150
177. Power of the Commission to recover damages on behalf
of investors 153
178. Power of the Commission to publish information 155
179. Regulations made by the Minister 155
180. Rules made by the Commission 156
181. Derivatives not gaming or wagering contracts 158
182. Repeals, savings and transitional provisions 158
183. Sinhala text to prevail in case of inconsistency 162
viii

<!-- page 10 -->

1Securities Exchange
2 PL 010435—–475 (11/2017)
5
10
15
L.D.—O. 8/2017
AN ACT TO ESTABLISH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF
SRI LANKA; TO REGULATE MARKET INSTITUTIONS, PUBLIC OFFERS OF
SECURITIES, MARKET INTERMEDIARIES; TO DEAL WITH MARKET
MISCONDUCT; AND TO MEET THE CHALLENGES ENCOUNTERED BY
SECURITIES MARKETS IN AN EFFECTIVE AND EFFICIENT MANNER AND
TO REPEAL THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF
SRI LANKA ACT, NO. 36 OF 1987 AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Securities Exchange
Act, No .   of 2017.
(2) The provisions of this Act, other than this section,
shall come into operation on such date or dates as the Minister
may appoint by Order published in the Gazette. Different
dates may be appointed by the Minister for the coming into
operation of different Parts of this Act.
(3) The provisions of subsection (2) shall come into force
on the date the certificate of the Speaker is endorsed in terms
of Article 79 of the Constitution.
(4) In the interpretation of this Act, the objects and
purposes stated at the beginning of each Part shall be taken
into account in a holistic manner and shall not be confined
only to that Part.
2. This Act applies to listed public companies and
listed foreign entities except as otherwise provided in this
Act.
Short title
and date of
operation.
Application
of the Act.

<!-- page 11 -->

2 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires –
“accredited investor” includes-
(i) an individual -
(a) whose net personal assets, excluding
primary residential property,
exceeds two hundred million rupees
in value or a higher value as may be
determined by the Commission; or
(b) whose average annual income in the
preceding three years is not less than
thirty million rupees or a higher
value as may be determined by the
Commission; and
(c) who makes a declaration on his
experience, ability and sophistication
to take on the investment risk;
(ii) a corporate entity with net assets
exceeding one thousand million rupees in
value as determined by-
(a) the most recent audited balance
sheet of the entity; or
(b) in the absence of the audited balance
sheet, the most recent balance sheet
of the corporate entity certified by
the entity as giving a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the
entity as of the date of the balance
sheet, which date shall be within the
preceding twelve months;
(iii) the trustee of a trust as the Commission may
specify when acting in that capacity; or
Interpretation.
30

<!-- page 12 -->

3Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
(iv) such other institution as the Commission
may specify by way of rules;
“central depository” includes a body corporate
licensed by the Commission under this Act in
order to establish and operate a system for
central handling of securities on an exchange –
(a) whereby all such securities are deposited
with and held in custody by, or registered
in the name of the person or his nominee
for the depositors and dealings in respect
of those securities are effected by means
of entries in accounts without the
physical delivery of scrips; or
(b) which permits or facilitates the
settlement of securities transactions or
dealings in securities without the
physical delivery of scrips; and
(c)  to provide other facilities and services
incidental thereto,
but does not include –
(i) a central depository established by the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka; or
(ii) any person providing, or holding out as
providing, a central depository for
exempt securities;
“clearing facility” means a facility for the clearing
or settlement of transactions in securities;
“clearing or settlement” in relation to a clearing
facility includes any arrangement, process,

<!-- page 13 -->

4 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
mechanism or service provided by a person in
respect of transactions by which —
(a) information relating to the terms of
those transactions are verified by such
person with a view to confirming the
transactions;
(b) parties to those transactions substitute,
through novation or otherwise, the credit
of such person for the credit of the
parties;
(c) the obligations of parties under those
transactions are calculated, whether or
not such calculations include
multilateral netting arrangements; or
(d) parties to those transactions meet their
obligations under such transactions,
including the obligation to deliver the
transfer of funds or the transfer of title to
securities between the parties,
but does not include -
(i) the back office operations of a party
to the transactions referred to in the
above;
(ii) the services provided by a person
who has, under an arrangement with
another person (hereinafter referred
to as the “customer”), who is in
possession or control of securities
of the customer, where those services
are solely incidental to the
settlement of transactions relating to
the securities; or
30

<!-- page 14 -->

5Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
(iii) any other services as may be
specified by the Commission.
“clearing house” means a body corporate licensed
under this Act and whose activities or objectives
include the provision of clearing facilities;
“clearing member” means a person who is admitted
as a clearing member by the clearing house for
clearing and settlement on his own behalf or on
behalf of others under the rules of a clearing
house;
“collective investment scheme” includes 
any
scheme or arrangement that satisfies the
conditions under which a scheme or
arrangement made or offered to the public by a
company for which-
(a) the contribution or payments made by
the investors, by whatever name called,
are pooled and utilized solely for the
purpose of the scheme or arrangement;
(b) the contributions or payments are made
to such scheme or arrangement by
investors with a view to receive profits,
income, produce or property whether
movable or immovable from such scheme
or arrangement;
(c) the investors share the risk and the
benefit of investment in proportion to
their participatory interest in a portfolio
of a scheme or on any other basis as may
be determined by the parties;
(d) the property, contribution or investment
forming part of the scheme or
30

<!-- page 15 -->

6 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
arrangement, whether identifiable or not,
is managed on behalf of the investors;
and
(e) the investors do not have day to day
control over the management and
operation of the scheme or arrangement,
but does not include pools of funds relating to-
(i) individual investment management
arrangements;
(ii) enterprise initiative schemes;
(iii) pure deposit based schemes;
(iv) schemes not operated by way of business;
(v) debt issues, such as debentures, bonds
and loan stock;
(vi) employee share schemes;
(vii) franchise arrangements;
(viii) timeshare schemes;
(ix) provision of clearing services;
(x) contracts of insurance;
(xi) individual pension accounts;
(xii) occupational and personal pension
schemes;
(xiii) certain body corporates including
building societies, industrial and

<!-- page 16 -->

7Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
provident societies and registered
friendly societies; or
(xiv) any similar arrangement to the
aforementioned schemes;
“controller” means a person who –
(a) is entitled to exercise or control the
exercise of not less than twenty per
centum of the votes attached to the
voting shares in the holder; or
(b)  has the power to appoint or cause to be
appointed a majority of the directors of
such holder; or
(c) has the power to make or cause to
be made, decisions in respect of the
business or administration of the market
institution and market intermediary, and
to give effect to such decisions or cause
them to be given effect to;
“Court” means a High Court established under
Article 154P of the Constitution for a
Province, empowered with civil jurisdiction
by Order published in the Gazette under
section 2 of the High Court of the Provinces
(Special Provisions) Act, No.10 of 1996,
within the Province for which such High Court
is established, or where no such High Court
vested with Civil jurisdiction is established
for any Province, the High Court established
for the Western Province;
“delist” means to remove listed securities from
the official list of an exchange;
30

<!-- page 17 -->

8 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
“depository participant” means a person who has
access to the facilities of a central depository
and is admitted as a depository participant
under the rules of a central depository;
“derivatives” include futures contracts consisting
of an adjustment agreement, futures, options
and eligible exchange traded option or any
other agreement in a class of agreements
specified to be a derivative by the
Commission, but shall exclude an agreement
which is specified to be a derivative agreement
that is not traded on a futures market of a
derivatives exchange;
“derivatives exchange” means a body corporate
licensed as a derivatives exchange under this
Act;
“electronic record” means a written document or
other record created, stored, generated,
received or communicated by electronic
means;
“exchange” means a stock exchange or derivatives
exchange licensed under this Act;
“issuer” means a person who issues or proposes to
issue securities by way of a public offer for
sale;
“listed foreign entity”means an entity which is
not incorporated in Sri Lanka and has
been admitted to the official list 
of a stock
exchange by way of a secondary listing ;
“listed public company” means any company
which has its securities listed on a stock
exchange, and includes any public
30

<!-- page 18 -->

9Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
corporation which has its securities listed on
a stock exchange;
“listed securities” means, any securities listed on
an exchange;
“manager” in relation to a body corporate means
a person who is appointed by the body
corporate to manage any part of its business
and includes an employee of the body
corporate (other than the chief executive
officer) who under the immediate authority
of a director or chief executive officer of the
body corporate, exercises managerial
functions or is responsible for maintaining
accounts or other records of the body corporate.
“margin account” means, an account that allows
an investor to buy or sell listed securities
generally serving as collateral to purchase
listed securities;
“market institution” means, an exchange, clearing
house or central depository licensed under
Part II of this Act;
“market intermediary” includes any person
licensed under section 89 as a credit rating
agency, derivatives broker, financial planner,
investment analyst, investment manager,
managing company, margin provider, market
maker, placement agent, stock broker, or any
other person who undertakes similar activity
and described by rules for the purpose of
issuing such licence by the Commission. 
For
the purposes of this definition-
(a) “credit rating agency” means a body
corporate engaged in the business of

<!-- page 19 -->

10 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
assessing and evaluating the credit-
worthiness of any issuer or a specific issue
of securities;
(b) “derivatives broker” means any person
engaged in the business of buying or
selling of derivatives on behalf of
investors in return for a commission;
(c) “financial planner” means any person
engaged in the business of analysing the
financial circumstances of another
person and providing a plan to meet that
other person’s financial needs and
objectives including any investment plan
in securities for a fee or commission;
(d) “investment analyst” includes any
person engaged in the business of
advising others concerning securities or
as part of business issues or promulgates,
analyses or reports concerning securities
other than proprietors of newspapers that
the Commission may prescribe in the
rules;
(e) “investment manager” includes a person
who for a fee or commission engages in
the business of managing a portfolio of
securities on behalf of an investor but
shall not include the manager of a
collective investment scheme;
(f) “managing company” means a company
by which a unit of a collective investment
scheme –
(i) has been proposed to be issued or
offered for subscription or purchase;
or
30

<!-- page 20 -->

11Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
(ii) in respect of which an invitation to
subscribe or purchase has been
made;
(g) “margin provider” means a person who
is in the business of providing credit to
investors to purchase securities traded on
an exchange;
(h) “market maker” means a person who
enters bid and offer prices in the order
book maintained in the automated
trading system for a specified security
based on the requirements stipulated by
an exchange;
(i) “placement agent” means a person who
intermediates between an issuer and
investors in facilitating investment in
the primary market and includes any
person who purchases such issue from
the company specifically with a view to
offering such securities to the public;
(j) “stock broker” means any person
engaged in the business of buying or
selling of securities other than derivatives
on behalf of investors in return for a
commission;
“market operator”means a person who establishes
market infrastructure that facilitates trading,
clearing or settlement of unlisted securities as
provided in Part IV;
“Minister” means the Minister to whom the
implementation of the provisions of this Act is
assigned;

<!-- page 21 -->

12 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
“offer” or “offering” includes any attempt to sell or
dispose of any securities or interest in such
security for value by means of a prospectus or
otherwise, but does not include a bona fide
invitation to any person, to enter into an
underwriting agreement with respect to any such
securities;
“private placement” means, an issue of securities
to an identified investor or category of investors
other than by way of a rights issue offered pro-
rata to the existing shareholders or a general
offer to the public for subscription;
“persons acting in concert” means, persons who
pursuant to an agreement or understanding,
whether formal or informal, co-operate, through
the acquisition by any of them of any interests
in shares in a company, or any other company,
or to frustrate the successful outcome of an offer
for a company. Without prejudice to the general
application of this definition, the following
persons will be presumed to be persons acting
in concert with each other unless the contrary
is established to the satisfaction of the
Commission -
(a) a company, its parent, subsidiaries and
fellow subsidiaries, and their associated
companies, and companies of which such
companies are associated companies, and
any person who has provided financial
assistance (other than a bank in the
ordinary course of business) to any of
the aforesaid persons for the purchase of
voting rights, all with each other;
(b) a company with any of its directors
(together with their close relatives,
35

<!-- page 22 -->

13Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
related trusts as well as companies
controlled by any of the directors, their
close relatives and related trusts);
(c) a company with any of its pension funds
and employee share schemes;
(d) a fund manager with any investment
company, unit trust or other person
whose investments such fund manager
manages; and
(e) a person, a person’s close relatives and
the related trusts of any of them, all with
each other;
“prospectus” shall have the same meaning as in the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007;
“public notice” means a notice of any matter that is
required to be given under this Act, which shall
be given by publishing a notice of that matter
in at least one issue of the Gazette and in at
least one issue of a daily newspaper in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages, circulating within
Sri Lanka;
“registered person” means any person dealing with
clients for and on behalf of a market intermediary
and who is registered by the Commission under
this Act;
“related company” means any subsidiary, associate
or holding company or a subsidiary of the
holding company of a body corporate;
“rights issue” means an issue of any shares or shares
to be issued in the future, of a listed public
company to existing shareholders of such
30

<!-- page 23 -->

14 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
company, howsoever such issue is described or
referred to, for consideration, and in proportion
to the class of securities held by them in such
company on the date of such offer;
“securities” include debentures, stocks, shares,
funds, bonds, units in a collective investment
scheme, derivatives inclusive of futures and
options, whatever the nature of the underlying
asset relied on or notes issued, or proposed to
be issued, by any Government or any body
corporate, including any rights, options or
interests (whether described as units or
otherwise) therein or in respect thereof or such
other product or class of products as the
Commission may prescribe, but does not
include such other product or class of products
as the Commission may prescribe as not being
securities;
“securities market” means a market or other place
or facility where –
(a) offers to sell, purchase or exchange of
securities are regularly made or accepted;
(b) offers or invitations that are intended, or
may reasonably be expected to result,
whether directly or indirectly, in the
making or acceptance of offers to sell,
purchase or exchange of securities, are
regularly made; or
(c) information concerning the prices at
which or the consideration for which,
particular persons, or particular class of
persons, propose, or may reasonably be
expected to sell, purchase or exchange
securities is regularly provided;
30

<!-- page 24 -->

15Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
“share” shall have the same meaning as is given in
the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007 or as
recognized in another jurisdiction as a share
under its laws;
“stock borrower” means a person who is engaged
in the business of borrowing securities;
“stock exchange” means a body corporate licensed
as a stock exchange under this Act;
“supplementary service provider”includes an
actuary, auditor, corporate finance advisor,
custodian, trustee, underwriter, valuer, or such
person as may be specified by the Commission
who provides professional services to a market
institution, market intermediary or listed public
company. For the purposes of this definition-
(a) “corporate finance advisor” means any
person who for a fee or commission
engages in the business of providing
advice, inter alia, on-
(i) compliance with or in respect of fund
raising requirements as provided for
under this Act;
(ii) compliance with the listing
requirements of an exchange
licensed under this Act;
(iii) structuring of financial products; or
(iv) schemes of arrangement, schemes of
restructuring or takeover of a listed
public company;

<!-- page 25 -->

16 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
(b) “underwriter” means any person who in
connection with a public issue of
securities of a listed public company or
a company which has applied for a
listing, guarantees to purchase
unsubscribed securities of such company
for a fee or commission or who negotiates
with such company to purchase such
securities in the event of the offer being
not fully subscribed;
“trading participant” means a person who has access
to the facilities of an exchange and is admitted
as a trading participant under the rules of an
exchange.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSION
4. The object and purpose of this Part shall be –
(a) to establish the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka for the creation and
maintenance of a fair, efficient and
transparent securities market;
(b) to protect the interests of investors both local
and foreign;
(c) to ensure the maintenance of high
professional standards in the provision of
services under this Act; and
(d) to mitigate systemic risks in the financial
system.
Object and
purpose of
this Part.

<!-- page 26 -->

17Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
CHAPTER 1
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka
5. ( 1) There shall be established a Commission which
shall be called the Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”).
(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
6. (1) The Commission shall consist of –
(a) six persons from the private sector possessing
professional expertise and standing in respect
of matters relating to the securities market,
special knowledge or wide experience and
proven competency in the fields of law,
finance, accounting, economics, banking or
business to be appointed by the Minister as
members (hereinafter referred to as
“appointed members”) in order to reflect the
multidisciplinary character of the
Commission;
(b) three nominated members -
(i) a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury
nominated by the Secretary to the
Treasury
;
(ii) a Deputy Governor of the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka nominated by the Monetary
Board of Sri Lanka; and
(iii) a fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka who is not
Establishment
of the
Securities
and
Exchange
Commission
of Sri Lanka.
Constitution
of the
Commission.

<!-- page 27 -->

18 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
engaged in auditing as nominated by the
Council of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka;
(c) the Registrar-General of Companies,
appointed under the Companies Act, No. 7 of
2007 as an ex-officio member.
(2)  The Minister  shall nominate from amongst the
appointed members of the Commission, one member to be
the Chairman of the Commission.
(3)  In appointing persons under subsection (1),the
Minister shall have regard to-
(a) that person’s integrity and standing; and
(b) the likelihood of any conflict between the
interests of the Commission and any interest
which that person has or represents.
7. Every appointed or nominated member of the
Commission shall, unless he vacates office earlier by death,
by operation of law, resignation or removal, hold office for a
term of three years and shall be eligible for reappointment
subject to a maximum period of two successive terms of office.
8. (1) Any appointed or nominated member of the
Commission may at any time resign his office by letter
addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall take
effect upon it being accepted by the Minister in writing.
(2)  A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or nominated or from continuing as a member of the
Commission if he -
(a) is or becomes a member of Parliament, or a member
of any Provincial Council or any local authority;
Term of office
of appointed or
nominated
members.
Resignation,
disqualifications
from being a
member of the
Commission
and removal.

<!-- page 28 -->

19Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
(b) is or becomes a director, partner or employee of an
entity licensed or registered by the Commission;
(c) is or becomes of unsound mind or incapable of
carrying out his duties;
(d) is or has become an undischarged bankrupt;
(e) is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to his
duties;
(f) has been convicted of an offence which involves
moral turpitude;
(g) abuses his position so as to render his continuation
in office detrimental to the interest of the
Commission;
(h) in the case of the Chairman, if absent for three
consecutive meetings except on leave granted by
the Minister;
(i) fails to comply with his obligations under the
provisions of this Act; or
(j) has been previously removed from office under this
section.
(3)  In the event of vacation of office of any member other
than an ex-officio member by reason of death, resignation,
removal or the operation of provisions of subsection (5)
hereof, the Minister may appoint another person having
regard to the provisions of subsection (3) of section 6 to
hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of
the member whom he succeeds.
(4)  If any member of the Commission other than the
Chairman is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his
office for a period exceeding three months due to ill health

<!-- page 29 -->

20 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
or absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause, the Minister
may appoint some other person to act in his place during
such period having regard to the provisions of subsection
(3) of section 6.
(5)  An appointed or nominated member of the Commission
who, without leave of the Commission first being obtained,
absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the
Commission shall be deemed to have vacated his office.
(6) The Minister in consultation with the Commission
shall remove any member other than the ex-officio member
if he becomes subject to any of the disqualification as set
out in subsection (2).
9. The members of the Commission may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Commission as may be
determined by the 
Minister, in consultation with the Minister
assigned the subject of finance.
10. (1) The Chairman of the Commission shall, if
present, preside at all meetings of the Commission. In the
absence of the Chairman from any such meetings, the
members present shall elect one of the members to preside at
such meeting.
(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Commission
shall be five members.
(3) The Commission may regulate the procedure in regard
to the meetings of the Commission and the transaction of
business at such meetings.
(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of the
Commission shall be decided by the vote of the majority of
the members present.  In the case of an equality of votes the
member presiding shall have a casting vote.
Remuneration
of members.
Meetings of
the
Commission.

<!-- page 30 -->

21Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
11. (1) If the Chairman of the Commission is, by reason
of illness or absence from Sri Lanka temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office the Minister shall nominate
another member of the Commission to act in his place.
(2) The Chairman may at any time resign from the office
of Chairman by a letter addressed to the Minister.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the term of
office of the Chairman shall be his period of membership of
the Commission.
12. A member who is directly or indirectly interested
in any decision that is to be taken on any  matter  by the
Commission  shall disclose  the  nature  of  such  interest  at
the  meeting of  the Commission where such decision is
being taken, and such  disclosure shall be recorded in the
minutes of the meetings of the Commission and such member
shall not take part in any deliberation or decision of the
Commission with regard to that matter, and shall withdraw
from such meeting while such deliberation is in progress or
such decision is being made.
13. No proceeding, act or decision of the Commission
shall be invalidated by reason only of the existence of a
vacancy among its members or of any defect in the
appointment of a member thereof.
14. (1) The seal of the Commission shall be in the
custody of the Commission.
(2) The seal of the Commission may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Commission.
(3) The seal of the Commission shall not be affixed to
any instrument or document except in the presence of one
member of the Commission and the Director-General of the
Commission or in the absence of the Director-General, in
the presence of any two members of the Commission, who
shall sign the instrument or document in token of their
presence.
Chairman of
the
Commission.
Members to
disclose any
interest.
Proceedings,
acts or
decisions not
invalidated
by reason of
a vacancy.
Seal of the
Commission.

<!-- page 31 -->

22 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
  CHAPTER 2
Powers, Duties and functions of the Commission
15. For the purpose of carrying out its objects the
Commission may exercise, perform and discharge all or any
of the following powers, duties and functions –
(a) to advise the Government on the development of
the securities market and to assist in the effective
implementation of the policies and programmes of
the Government with respect to the securities
market;
(b) to encourage and promote the development of
securities markets in Sri Lanka including research
and training in connection thereto;
(c) to give general or specific directives to any person
or persons including market institutions, market
intermediaries, registered persons, clearing
members, trading participants, depository
participants, issuers, investors or recognized market
operators from time to time;
(d) to give general or specific directives to
supplementary services providers of market
institutions, market intermediaries or listed pubic
companies from time to time;
(e) to grant a licence to a body corporate to operate as
a market institution and ensure its proper conduct;
(f) to grant a licence to any person to operate as a
market intermediary and ensure its proper conduct;
(g) to register a person advising clients on sale or
purchase of securities for and on behalf of a market
intermediary as a registered person and to regulate
their conduct in the discharge of their duties;
Principal
Functions,
Powers and
Duties of the
Commission.

<!-- page 32 -->

23Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
(h) to issue general or specific directives to listed
public companies or listed foreign entities from
time to time;
(i) to issue general or specific directives to an acquirer,
an offeror or persons acting in concert with an offeror
or an offeree or a target company in relation to a
takeover or a merger of a listed public company;
(j) to issue specific directives to any person to prevent
the imminent infringement of this Act, regulations
or rules and to restrain infringement;
(k) to regulate the listing and trading of securities in
an exchange;
(l) to regulate the issuance of securities;
(m) to prohibit or suspend the listing of any securities
or to delist the listed securities or to prohibit or
suspend the trading of any securities or to take such
steps as the Commission considers necessary or
expedient for the protection of investors or for
ensuring fair and orderly securities market or for
ensuring the integrity of the securities market;
(n) to employ such officers as the Commission may
consider necessary and to fix the salaries and wages
or other remuneration and benefits of such officers
for the purposes of carrying out the objectives and
functions of the Commission;
(o) to acquire in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge, sell or
otherwise dispose of any immovable or movable
property;
(p) to regulate a takeover or merger of a listed public
company or any matter connected therewith or
incidental thereto;

<!-- page 33 -->

24 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
(q) to inquire and conduct investigations into any
activity of a market institution, market intermediary,
a registered person, a listed public company or a
listed foreign entity;
(r) to conduct investigations into any alleged violation
or contravention of the provisions of this Act or
any regulation, rule, or directive made thereunder
by any person and to enforce measures considered
necessary by the Commission;
(s) to enter into agreements or memorandum of
understanding with any organization or a foreign
regulatory authority in relation to any matter which
comes within the purview of this Act;
(t) to publish findings of wrongdoing by any market
institution, market intermediary or registered
person,supplementary service provider, any listed
public company or any listed foreign entity;
(u) to carry out surveillance of securities transactions;
(v) to levy fees or charges, for any services rendered by
the Commission; and
(w) to do all such other acts as may be necessary,
incidental and ancillary to the performance of the
Commission’s objectives, powers, duties and
functions under this Act.
16. The Commission shall in addition to the powers
specified in section 15 also have the power to –
(a) carry out inspections of the activities of market
institutions or market intermediaries or registered
persons or trustees of collective investment schemes
in order to determine whether they are operating in
conformity with the provisions of this Act,
Additional
powers of the
Commission.

<!-- page 34 -->

25Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
30
regulations, rules or directives made thereunder and
to charge the costs incurred in carrying out such
inspections from the market institution or a market
intermediary or a registered person or a trustee of a
collective investment scheme as the case may be;
(b) require market institutions or market intermediaries
to file with the Commission, audited financial
statements and the interim financial statements,
certified by a qualified auditor in the form and
manner specified by the Commission;
(c) require the licensed managing company of a
collective investment scheme to file reports with
the Commission, in respect of every year and at
least two reports of the activities of that collective
investment scheme for that year.  Every such report
shall contain such particulars as may from time to
time be determined by the Commission. The first
report shall be filed not later than the thirtieth of
September of that year and the second report shall
be filed not later than the thirty-first of March of
the subsequent year;
(d) to appoint experts as the Commission deems
expedient; and
(e) to constitute a consultative panel to consult and
review any matter relating to a takeover and merger
of a listed public company.
17. The Chairman of the Commission may authorize
any officer of the Commission who is an Attorney-at-Law or
any other Attorney-at-Law to appear on behalf of the
Commission,in any legal proceedings by or against the
Commission or in any proceedings in which the Commission
has a substantial interest.
Representation
of the
Commission
in legal
proceedings.

<!-- page 35 -->

26 Securities Exchange
CHAPTER 3
Director-General and the Staff of the Commission
18. (1) The Commission shall appoint a Director-General
of the Commission, who shall be its chief executive officer.
The conditions of employment including remuneration of
the Director-General shall be determined by the
Commission.
(2) The Commission shall not appoint any person as the
Director-General of the Commission, if such person –
(a) has been found guilty of serious misconduct;
(b) has been previously dismissed from office for
malpractice; or
(c) has committed a breach of the provisions of this
Act,regulations, rules or directives made
thereunder.
(3)  The Director-General shall, subject to the general
direction and control of the Commission, be charged with
the direction of the affairs and transactions of the
Commission, the exercise, discharge and performance of its
powers, functions and duties, and the administration and
control of the officers and servants of the Commission.
(4) The Director-General may, with the approval of the
Commission, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate to any officer and servant any power, function or
duty conferred or imposed on or assigned to him by this Act
and such officer or servant shall exercise, discharge and
perform such power, function or duty subject to the general
or special directions of the Director-General.
(5)  The Commission may remove from office the Director-
General appointed under subsection (1) by a two thirds
majority having regard to any one of the following reasons -
(a) that person’s integrity or standing;
Director-
General.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 36 -->

27Securities Exchange
(b) the likelihood of any financial or any other conflict
of interests in the affairs between the Commission
and the Director-General;
(c) that person becomes of unsound mind or incapable
of carrying out his duties;
(d) that person is guilty of serious misconduct in
relation to his duties; or
(e) that person is involved in any activity which may
interfere with his independence in discharging his
duties:
Provided that the Commission shall grant an opportunity
to the Director-General of being heard, prior to such removal.
19. (1) The Commission may appoint such other officers
or servants as it considers necessary for the efficient discharge
of its functions.
(2) The Commission shall not appoint any person to the
staff of the Commission where such person-
(a) has been found guilty of serious misconduct;
(b) has been previously dismissed from office for
malpractice; or
(c) has committed a breach of the provisions of this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder.
(3) The officers or servants appointed under subsection
(1) shall be remunerated in such manner and at such rates
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law
and shall be subject to such conditions of service as may be
determined by the Commission.
Staff of the
Commission.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 37 -->

28 Securities Exchange
(4)  At the request of the Commission any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of the officer and the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed to the
Commission for such period as may be determined by the
Commission with like consent, or be permanently appointed
to such staff.
(5) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis ,
apply to and in relation to such officer.
(6) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis ,
apply to and in relation to such officer.
(7) Where the Commission employs any person who has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Commission by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such agreement.
(8) The Commission may propose secondment of its
officers or servants to other state institutions or regulatory
authorities in Sri Lanka or abroad for a period determined
by the Commission on an assignment agreed upon between
such institution or the authority and the Commission.
20. (1)  At the request of the Commission any officer or
servant of a public corporation may, with the consent of
such officer or servant and the governing  board  of  such
corporation,  be  temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Commission for such period as may be determined by the
Commission or with like consent be permanently appointed
Appointment
of officers of
public
corporations
to the staff of
the
Commission.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 38 -->

29Securities Exchange
to the staff of the Commission on such terms and conditions,
including those relating to pension or provident fund rights,
as may be agreed upon by the Commission and the governing
board of such corporation.
(2) Where any person is appointed whether temporarily
or permanently under subsection (1) to the staff of the
Commission he shall be subject to the same disciplinary
control as any other officers or servants of the Commission.
21. All members, officers and servants of the
Commission shall be deemed to be public servants within
the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code and of
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979.
22. The Commission shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
PART II
MARKETS AND MARKET INSTITUTIONS
23. The object and purpose of this Part shall be –
(a) to promote a fair, orderly, transparent and
efficient securities market in Sri Lanka
through the establishment of market
institutions;
(b) to enhance effective and efficient functioning
of a securities market; and
(c) to reduce systemic risk associated with
securities markets.
Commission
deemed to be
a Scheduled
institution
within the
meaning of
the Bribery
Act.
Members,
officers and
servants of
the
Commission
deemed to be
public
servants.
Object and
purpose of
this Part.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 39 -->

30 Securities Exchange
CHAPTER 1
Exchanges
24. (1) A person shall not establish, operate or maintain
an exchange except with a licence granted by the
Commission.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, after summary trial before
a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty-five
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
25. (1) An application for a licence to operate as an
exchange shall be made to the Commission in such manner
and form together with such documents and such fees as
may be specified by the Commission.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), an application shall
be made by a body corporate only.
(3) The Commission may grant a licence to the applicant
to operate as an exchange, subject to such terms and
conditions as it thinks fit, where it is satisfied that -
(a) the applicant has the capacity to operate an orderly
and fair market in relation to securities that are
traded through its facilities;
(b) the applicant has the necessary infrastructure to
manage any risks associated with its business and
operations prudently;
(c) the applicant, in discharging its obligations under
paragraph (a), shall have the necessary governance
structures to ensure that the exchange shall not act
contrary to public interest;
Prohibition
against
establishing
an unlicensed
exchange.
Application
to operate an
exchange.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 40 -->

31Securities Exchange
(d) the rules made by the applicant have provided—
(i) for an orderly and fair market in relation to
the securities that are traded through its
facilities;
(ii) for the admission of trading participants;
(iii) for the proper regulation and supervision of
its trading participants;
(iv) for the exclusion of persons who are not of
good character and high business integrity
from being recognized as trading participants;
(v) for the expulsion, suspension or disciplining
including the imposition of fines on a trading
participant and any person acting on behalf
of such trading participant, for conduct that
is inconsistent with just and equitable
principles in the transaction of business or
for a contravention of or failure to comply
with the rules of the exchange or any
provisions of this Act, regulations,rules or
directives made thereunder;
(vi) with respect to the conditions under which
securities may be listed or delisted;
(vii) with respect to the conditions governing
trading in securities by trading participants;
(viii) with respect to the class or classes of securities
that may be dealt in or traded on its facilities;
(ix) with respect to the prohibition of market
misconduct and the manner in which
investigations are conducted;
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 41 -->

32 Securities Exchange
(x) for the suspension of trading of any given
security for the protection of investors or for
the conduct of orderly and fair trading;
(xi) for the appointment of a disciplinary
committee where majority of its members are
not trading participants; and
(xii) generally for the carrying on of the business
of the exchange with due regard to the need
for the protection of investors;
(e) the applicant has sufficient financial, human and
other resources to ensure the provision of –
(i) an orderly and fair market in relation to
securities that are traded through its facilities;
(ii) adequate and properly equipped premises for
the conduct of its business;
(iii) competent personnel for the conduct of its
business; and
(iv) automated systems with adequate capacity,
security arrangements and facilities to meet
emergencies; and
( f ) the interest of the public or the proper regulation of
the market shall be served by the granting of the
licence.
(4)  An applicant under subsection (1) shall provide such
additional information as the Commission considers
necessary in relation to the application.
(5)  Without limiting the generality of the terms and
conditions specified in subsection (3), the Commission may
amend, revoke or impose terms or conditions, if the
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 42 -->

33Securities Exchange
Commission is satisfied that it is appropriate to do so for the
protection of investors or for the proper regulation of the
securities market.
26. (1) It shall be the duty of an exchange to ensure, an
orderly and fair market in securities that are traded through
its facilities.
(2) In performing its duty under subsection (1), the
exchange shall-
(a) act in the public interest having particular regard
to the need for the protection of investors;
(b) ensure that where any interest that  is  required to
be served under any law relating to companies
conflict with the interest referred to in paragraph
(a), the interest referred to in paragraph ( a) shall
prevail; and
(c) manage any risks associated with its business and
operations prudently.
(3)  Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, a
director of an exchange has a duty to act at all times in the
public interest having particular regard to the need to protect
investors and where there is a conflict between the duty
under this Act and a director’s duty under any other law, the
duty under this Act shall prevail.
(4)  It shall be the duty of the exchange to take appropriate
action as may be provided for under its rules for the purpose
of monitoring or securing compliance with its rules.
(5)  An exchange shall immediately notify the
Commission if it becomes aware of -
(a) any matter which adversely affects, or is likely to
adversely affect the ability of any trading
participant to meet its obligations in respect of its
Duties of the
Exchange.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 43 -->

34 Securities Exchange
licensed business, including the ability of any
trading participant to comply with the minimum
financial requirements as may be specified under
this Act, regulations, rules or directives; or
(b) any irregularity, breach of any provision of this
Act, regulations, rules,directives or any other matter
which, in the opinion of the exchange, indicates or
may indicate that the financial standing or financial
integrity of any trading participant or of the chief
executive officer or directors or the key management
personnel of the trading participantis in question
or may reasonably be affected.
(6)  Where an exchange issues a warning, imposes a fine,
suspends, expels or imposes any other disciplinary measure
against any of its trading participants, on the occurrence of
activities referred to in subsection (5), it shall, within seven
days, give to the Commission in writing the following
particulars -
(a) the name and address of the business of the trading
participant;
(b) the reason for and the nature of the action taken;
(c) the period of suspension and the quantum of the
fine, if any; and
(d) any other disciplinary measure taken.
27. (1) The Commission may, by notice in writing -
(a) cancel the licence granted under section 25
of this Act with effect from the date specified
in the notice; or
(b) direct the exchange to cease to provide or
operate such facilities, or to cease to provide
such services, with effect from the date
specified in the notice.
Cancellation
of licence of
an exchange.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 44 -->

35Securities Exchange
(2)  The Commission shall not cancel the licence or issue
a directive under subsection (1) unless the Commission is
satisfied that it is appropriate to do so for the protection of
investors or in the public interest or for the proper regulation
of the securities market, where any of the following
circumstances occur –
(a) the exchange ceases to operate its securities market;
(b) the exchange is being wound up or otherwise
dissolved, whether within or outside Sri Lanka;
(c)  the exchange has contravened any term or
condition of its licence or is charged with any
offence under this Act;
(d) the exchange has failed to comply with a condition,
requirement or directive that is issued under this
Act;
(e) any information provided for the purposes of section
25, was false or misleading in a material particular
or from which there is a material omission;
(f) a judgment debt against the exchange has not been
satisfied in whole or in part;
(g) a receiver, a receiver and manager, liquidator or
equivalent person has been appointed, whether
within or outside Sri Lanka in relation to or in
respect of any property of the exchange;
(h) the exchange has, whether within or outside Sri
Lanka, entered into a compromise or scheme of
arrangement with its creditors; or
(i) the exchange on its own accord applies to the
Commission to cancel its licence as an exchange,
and the Commission thinks it fit to do so.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 45 -->

36 Securities Exchange
(3)  For the purposes of paragraph ( a) of subsection (2)
where an exchange has ceased to operate its securities market
for a period exceeding two weeks, it shall be deemed to have
ceased to operate its securities market without obtaining the
prior written approval of the Commission.
(4) Notwithstanding the cancellation of a licence or the
issuance of a directive under subsection (1), the Commission
may permit the exchange to continue, on or after the date on
which the cancellation or directive is to take effect, to carry
on such activities affected by the cancellation or directive
as the Commission may specify in the notice-
(a) for the purpose of closing down the operations of
the exchange or ceasing to provide the services
specified in the notice;
(b) for the purpose of protecting the interest of
investors; or
(c) in the interest of the public.
(5) Where the Commission acts under subsection (1), the
Commission may, where it considers necessary, appoint an
interim board of directors for a period of six months which
may be extended for a period of one year to manage the affairs
of the exchange until a new board of directors is appointed.
(6) Where the Commission has granted permission to an
exchange to continue under subsection (4), the exchange
shall not, by reason of its carrying on the activities in
accordance with such permission, be regarded as having
contravened subsection (1).
(7) The Commission shall not take any action under
subsection (1) without giving the exchange an opportunity
to be heard.
(8) An exchange which is aggrieved by the decision of
the Commission made under subsection (1) may, within
fourteen days after the exchange is notified of the decision,
appeal to the Minister.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 46 -->

37Securities Exchange
(9) Notwithstanding the lodging of an appeal under
subsection (8), any action taken by the Commission under
this section shall continue to have effect pending the decision
of the Minister.
(10) The Minister may, on an appeal made under
subsection (8)-
(a) allow the appeal and direct the Commission to
revoke the cancellation of the licence or the
directive; or
(b) disallow the appeal.
(11) The Commission shall give effect to the directive of
the Minister.
(12) Subject to subsection (11), the Commission shall
give public notice of any cancellation of licence or any
directive issued under this section.
28. Any cancellation of a licence or the issuance of a
directive issued under subsection (1) of section 27 shall not
operate so as to –
(a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
arrangement entered into on the securities market
operated by the exchange, whether the agreement,
transaction or arrangement was entered into before
or, where subsection (4) of section 27applies, after
the cancellation of the licence or the issuance of
the directive under section 27; or
(b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under
such agreement, transaction or arrangement.
 29. (1) The Commission may, after consultation with
the exchange, direct the exchange to close its securities
market for a period not exceeding five business days if the
Commission is of the opinion that an orderly and fair market
Effect of
cancellation
of the licence
of an
exchange.
Closure of
the exchange
in an
emergency.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 47 -->

38 Securities Exchange
for trading in securities on the securities market is being or
is likely to be prevented because –
(a) an emergency or natural disaster has occurred
within Sri Lanka; or
(b) there exists an economic or financial crisis or any
other circumstance within or outside Sri Lanka.
(2)  The Commission may extend the closure of the
securities market under subsection (1) for any further periods,
each not exceeding five business days.
(3)  The Commission shall specify the grounds for the
closure in the directive given under subsection (1) and the
grounds for any extension of closure under subsection (2).
(4)  The Commission shall, as soon as may be practicable,
give a copy of the directive under subsection (1) or extension
under subsection (2) to the exchange and direct the exchange
to do all that it is reasonably capable of doing to give effect
to the directive under subsection (1) or extension under
subsection (2) while the directive or extension remains in
force.
(5)  Where the Commission exercises its power under this
section it shall forthwith give a report to the Minister setting
out the reasons for the exercise of the power under this
section.
(6)  In this section –
“business day” means any day on which there is
official trading on the exchange but for the
closure;
“fair market” includes a market that reflects the
forces of supply and demand.
30. (1) Where an exchange complies with the listing
requirements, the Commission shall grant permission to list
its securities on such exchange. On such permission being
Listing
requirements
of a licensed
exchange.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 48 -->

39Securities Exchange
granted, such exchange shall enter into an arrangement as
the Commission may require-
(a) for dealing with possible conflicts of interest that
may arise from the listing on such exchange;
(b) for the purpose of ensuring the integrity of trading
of securities of such exchange; and
(c) for compliance with obligations as a listed
company if such exchange was to become a listed
company,
and such exchange shall comply with such requirements.
(2)  The listing requirements of such exchange shall be
deemed to allow the Commission, instead of such exchange
to make decisions and to take action, relating to-
(a) the admission to or removal of the exchange from
the official list of such exchange;
(b) the stopping or suspension of the securities of the
exchange from being listed or traded on such
exchange; or
(c) such other matters as the Commission thinks fit for
the purpose of subsection (1).
(3)  An arrangement under subsection (1) may provide for
the exchange to pay such fees to the Commission as the
Commission may determine for services provided by the
Commission under the arrangement or otherwise.
(4) Without prejudice to the powers of the Commission
to approve or amend the rules of an exchange, the
Commission may by notice in writing-
(a) modify the listing requirements of such exchange
for the purpose of applying for a listing or trading
of the securities of such exchange; or
(b) exempt such exchange from any listing requirement.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 49 -->

40 Securities Exchange
CHAPTER 2
Clearing House
31. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires –
“central counterparty” means a legal person who
engages in clearing and settlement of trades on
a securities market by becoming the buyer to
every seller and the seller to every buyer by
guaranteeing each trade;
“default proceedings” mean any proceedings or
other action taken by a clearing house under its
default rules;
“default rules”, in relation to a clearing house, mean
such rules of the clearing house which provide
for the initiation of default proceedings if a
clearing member has failed to meet its
obligations in respect of all or any unsettled
market contracts to which the clearing member
is a party;
“defaulter” means a clearing member who is the
subject of any default proceedings;
“market charge” means a charge, whether fixed or
floating, granted in favour of a clearing house -
(a) over any property as specified in the rules
of a clearing house which is held by or
deposited with the clearing house; and
(b) for the purpose of securing liabilities
arising directly in connection with the
clearing house ensuring the settlement of
a market contract;
“market collateral” means any property or
guarantees given in any other form of collateral
Interpretation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 50 -->

41Securities Exchange
as specified in the rules of a clearing house held
by or deposited with a clearing house for the
purpose of securing liabilities arising directly
in connection with the clearing house ensuring
the performance of market contracts by the
clearing house;
“market contract” means -
(a) a contract which is subject to the rules of a
clearing house and entered into by the
clearing house with a clearing member
pursuant to a novation for the purpose of
clearing and settlement of transactions
using the clearing facility of a clearing
house; or
(b) a transaction which is or is to be cleared or
settled using the clearing facility of a
clearing house and in accordance with the
rules of the clearing house, whether or not
a novation referred to in paragraph ( a) is
to take place;
“relevant office holder” means –
(a)  any person acting in relation to a company
as its liquidator, provisional liquidator,
receiver or manager or an equivalent
person; or
(b) any person appointed pursuant to an order
for the administration in bankruptcy of an
insolvent estate of the deceased person.
32. (1) A person shall not establish, operate or maintain
a clearing facility for the purpose of clearing or settlement
unless the person has been licensed to establish or operate a
clearing house under this section.
Prohibition
against
establishing
an unlicensed
clearing
house.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 51 -->

42 Securities Exchange
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence and shall, on conviction after a summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty
five million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(3)  Subsection (1) shall not apply to any person providing
clearing facilities for securities exempted under this Act.
33. (1) An application for a licence to establish or
operate a clearing house, acting as a central counterparty to
guarantee clearance and settlement, or otherwise shall be
made to the Commission in such manner and form as may be
specified by the Commission and shall be accompanied by
a fee specified by the Commission.
(2) An application for a licence to establish or operate a
clearing house shall only be made by a body corporate.
(3) An applicant shall provide all information necessary
to satisfy the Commission that the applicant has established,
at the time of authorization, all the necessary arrangements
to comply with the requirements of this Act, or regulation or
rules made thereunder.
(4) The rules of the proposed clearing house shall subject
to the satisfaction of the Commission provide for -
(a) the efficient and effective clearing house facilities
in relation to securities that are cleared through its
clearing facilities;
(b) the regulation and supervision of its clearing
members that use its clearing facilities;
(c) the categories of admissible clearing members
including the transparent and non discriminatory
criteria for admission of such clearing members to
the clearing house;
Application
for a licence
to establish
or operate a
clearing
house.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 52 -->

43Securities Exchange
(d) the quick and fair settling of disputes -
(i) between the clearing house and its clearing
members; and
(ii) between clearing members;
(e) the expulsion, suspension, imposition of fines or
disciplining of clearing members for the failure to
comply with the rules of the clearing house;
(f) the specification of the class or the classes of
securities that may be cleared on its facilities;
(g) the establishment and administration of a settlement
guarantee fund;
(h) the initiation of default proceedings if a clearing
member has failed, and risk management procedures
applicable in case a clearing member appears to be
unable, or likely to become unable, to meet its
obligations;
(i) the time for entering settlement orders into the
settlement system and the time when such orders
become final and irrevocable;
(j) the time of counterparty substitution in the netting
arrangements, finality of settlement and any other
duties and functions relevant to a central
counterparty where the clearing house acts as a
central counterparty;
(k) the inclusion of the default rules to facilitate the
uninterrupted services of the clearing house where
the clearing house suffers losses caused by the
default of a clearing member or any other
circumstances that threatens the solvency of a
clearing house; and
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 53 -->

44 Securities Exchange
(l) the governing of collateral including the depositing
and efficient creation and realization of collateral
in the event of default or bankruptcy of a clearing
member.
(5)  Where the Commission is satisfied that it is
appropriate to do so in the public interest or for the proper
regulation of a clearing house, it may, grant a licence to the
applicant to establish and operate a clearing house subject
to such terms and conditions as the Commission thinks fit.
(6) The Commission, may amend, revoke or impose terms
and conditions, if the Commission is satisfied that it is
appropriate to do so for investor interest, or for the proper
regulation of a clearing house.
34. (1) A clearing house shall –
(a) operate a safe, efficient and effective
clearing facility for the purposes of clearing
or settlement of transactions ;
(b) manage any risks associated with its
business and operations prudently; and
(c) act in the public interest having particular
regard to the need for the protection of
investors.
(2)  Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, a
director of a clearing house has a duty to act at all times in
the public interest having particular regard to mitigation of
systemic risk and where there is a conflict between the duty
under this Act and a director’s duty under any other law, the
duty under this Act shall prevail.
(3) A clearing house shall at all times -
(a) have robust governance arrangements, which
include a clear organizational structure with
well-defined, transparent and consistent lines
Duties of a
Clearing
House.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 54 -->

45Securities Exchange
of responsibility, effective processes to
identify, manage, monitor and report the risks
to which it is or might be exposed, and
adequate internal control mechanisms,
including sound administrative and
accounting procedures;
(b) adopt policies and procedures which are
sufficiently effective so as to ensure
compliance with this Act, regulations, rules
or directives made thereunder;
(c) maintain and operate an organizational
structure that ensures continuity and orderly
functioning in the performance of its services
and activities, and shall employ appropriate
and proportionate systems, resources and
procedures;
(d) maintain a clear separation between the
reporting lines for risk management and those
for the other operations of the clearing house;
(e) maintain information technology systems
adequate to deal with the complexity, variety
and type of services and activities performed
so as to ensure high standards of security and
the integrity and confidentiality of the
information maintained; and
(f) make its governance arrangements, the rules
governing the clearing house, and its
admission criteria for clearing house
membership and make those information
available to the public free of charge.
35. (1) The Commission may by notice in writing –
(a) cancel the licence granted under section 33
to a clearing house with effect from the date
specified in the notice; or
Cancellation
of licence of
a clearing
house.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 55 -->

46 Securities Exchange
(b) direct the clearing house to cease to provide
or operate such facilities or to cease to provide
such services, with effect from the date
specified in the notice.
(2)  The Commission shall not cancel a licence or issue a
directive under subsection (1) unless the Commission is
satisfied that it is appropriate to do so for the protection of
investors or in the public interest or for the proper regulation
of the clearing and settlement of transactions in securities,
where any of the following circumstances occur :-
(a) the clearing house ceases to provide clearing
facilities;
(b)  the clearing house is being wound up or otherwise
dissolved, whether within or outside Sri Lanka;
(c) the clearing house has contravened any term or
condition of its licence or is charged with any
offence under this Act;
(d) the clearing house has failed to comply with a
condition, requirement or directive issued under
this Act;
(e) any information provided for the purposes of section
33 was false or misleading in a material particular
or from which there is a material omission;
(f) a judgment debt against the clearing house has not
been satisfied in whole or in part;
(g) a receiver, a receiver and manager, liquidator or an
equivalent person has been appointed, whether
within or outside Sri Lanka, in relation to or in
respect of any property of the clearing house;
(h) the clearing house has, whether within or outside
Sri Lanka, entered into a compromise or scheme of
arrangement with its creditors; or
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 56 -->

47Securities Exchange
(i) the clearing house has on its own accord applied to
the Commission to cancel the licence granted to it.
(3)  For the purposes of paragraph ( a) of subsection (2),
the clearing house shall be deemed to have ceased to provide
clearing facilities if it has ceased to provide such facilities
for a period exceeding two weeks without obtaining the
prior written approval of the Commission to do so.
(4) Notwithstanding the cancellation of a licence or the
issuance of a directive under subsection (1), the Commission
may permit the clearing house to continue, on or after the
date on which the cancellation or directive is to take effect,
to carry on such activities affected by the cancellation or
directive as the Commission may specify in the notice for
the purpose of –
(a) closing down the operations of the clearing house
or ceasing to provide the services specified in the
notice; or
(b) protecting investors or the public interest.
 (5)  Where the Commission acts under subsection (1),
the Commission may, where it considers necessary, appoint
an interim board of directors for a period of six months and
which may be extended for a period of one year to manage
the affairs of the clearing house until a new board of directors
is appointed.
(6)  Where the Commission has granted permission to a
clearing house under subsection (4), the clearing house shall
not, by reason of its carrying on the activities in accordance
with such permission, be regarded as having contravened
subsection (1).
(7) The Commission shall not take any action under
subsection (1) without giving the clearing house an
opportunity to be heard.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 57 -->

48 Securities Exchange
(8) A clearing house which is aggrieved by the decision
of the Commission made under subsection (1), may, within
fourteen days after the clearing house is notified of the
decision, appeal to the Minister.
(9)  Notwithstanding the lodging of an appeal under
subsection (8), any action taken by the Commission under
this section shall continue to have effect pending the decision
of the Minister.
(10) The Minister may, on an appeal made under
subsection (8)-
(a) allow the appeal and direct the Commission to
revoke the cancellation of the licence or the
directive; or
(b) disallow the appeal.
(11)  The Commission shall give effect to the directive of
the Minister.
(12) Subject to subsection (11), the Commission shall
give public notice of any cancellation of a licence or any
directive issued under this section.
36. Any cancellation of a licence or the issuance of a
directive under subsection (1) of section 35 shall not operate
so as to –
(a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
arrangement entered into through the clearing house
whether the agreement, transaction or arrangement
was entered into before, or where section 35 applies,
after the cancellation of the licence or issuance of
the directive under section 35; or
(b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under
such agreement, transaction or arrangement.
Effect of
cancellation
of licence to
a clearing
house.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 58 -->

49Securities Exchange
37. A clearing house shall, for the purpose of risk
management, initiate default proceedings under default rules
if a clearing member is unable or likely to become unable to
meet the obligations in respect of all or any unsettled market
contracts to which the clearing member is a party.
38. (1) The following shall not be invalid to any extent
in law by reason only of inconsistency with any written law
relating to the distribution of the assets of a person on
insolvency, bankruptcy or winding up, or on the appointment
of the receiver, a receiver and a manager or a person in an
equivalent capacity over any of the assets of a person: –
(a) a market contract;
(b) the rules of a clearing house relating to the
settlement of a market contract;
(c) any proceedings or other action taken under the
rules of a clearing house relating to the settlement
of a market contract;
(d) a market charge;
(e) market collateral; or
(f) the default rules of a clearing house.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), the powers of a relevant
office holder under the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007
shall not be exercised in such a way as to prevent or
interfere with –
(a) the settlement of a market contract in accordance
with the rules of a clearing house; or
(b) any default proceedings.
Default rules.
Default
proceedings
of a clearing
house to take
precedence.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 59 -->

50 Securities Exchange
39. (1) A court may on an application by a relevant
office holder make such order as it thinks fit altering or
dispensing from compliance with such of the functions of
his office under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 as are
affected by the fact that default proceedings are pending or
could be taken or have been or could have been taken and
accordingly, such functions of the relevant office holder
shall be construed subject to such order.
(2) Nothing in the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 shall
prevent or interfere with the default proceedings instituted
by a clearing house in the realization and disposition of any
market collateral by the clearing house.
40. (1) Upon completion of any default proceedings, a
clearing house shall provide a report in respect of each
defaulter to those enumerated in subsection (2) in respect of
the following:-
(a) the net sum, if any, certified by the clearing house
to be payable by or to the defaulter;
(b) the fact that no sum is so payable; and
(c) such other particulars in respect of such default
proceedings as it thinks fit.
(2) The report prepared under subsection (1) shall be
provided forthwith-
(a) to the Commission;
(b) to the relevant office holder acting for the defaulter
to whom the report relates or to the defaulter’s
estate; or
(c) when there is no relevant office holder referred to
in paragraph (b), to the defaulter to whom the report
relates.
(3) Where the Commission receives a report pursuant to
subsection (2),it may publish a notice to bring it to the
Supplementary
provisions
relating to
default
proceedings.
Duty to report
on completion
of default
proceedings.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 60 -->

51Securities Exchange
attention of creditors of the defaulter to whom the report
relates.
(4) Where a relevant office holder or defaulter receives a
report pursuant to subsection (1), he shall, at the request of
any of his creditors-
(a) make the report available for inspection by the
creditor within two days from the receipt of such
request; or
(b) on payment of a relevant fee as determined by the
relevant office holder or the defaulter, supply to
the creditor all or any part of that report as
requested.
(5) In subsections (2), (3) and (4), a report includes a copy
of a report.
41. (1) Upon the completion of default proceedings,
the net sum certified under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of
section 40 by a clearing house shall be payable by or to the
defaulter.
(2) Notwithstanding any provision of the Companies Act,
No. 7 of 2007, where an order for a receiver or winding up
has been made or a resolution for voluntary winding up has
been passed, the net sum referred to in subsection (1) if owing
to the defaulter shall be taken into account in relation to
winding up proceedings under the Companies Act, No. 7 of
2007.
42. (1) If a clearing member (“the first clearing member”)
sells securities at an overvalue to, or purchase securities at
an undervalue from, another clearing member (“the second
clearing member”) in circumstances  as described in
subsection (3) and thereafter a relevant office holder acts
for-
(a) the second clearing member;
Net sum
payable on
completion
of default
proceedings.
Right of
relevant
office holder
to recover
certain
amounts
arising from
certain
transactions.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 61 -->

52 Securities Exchange
(b) the principal of the second clearing member in the
sale or purchase; or
(c) the estate of the second clearing member or the
person referred to in paragraph (b),
unless a court otherwise orders, the relevant office holder
may recover, from the first clearing member, or the principal
of the first clearing member, an amount equal to the identified
gain obtained under the sale or purchase by the first clearing
member, or the principal of the clearing member.
(2) The amount equal to the identified gain is recoverable
even if the sale or purchase may have been discharged
according to the rules of the clearing house and replaced by
a market contract.
(3) The circumstances referred to in subsection (1) for a
sale or purchase shall be where-
(a) an identified event has occurred in relation to the
second clearing member or the principal of the
second clearing member; and
(b) either-
(i) the first clearing member knew, or could
reasonably have known that an identified
event was likely to occur in relation to the
second clearing member or the principal of
the second clearing member; or
(ii) the principal of the first clearing member
knew or could reasonably have known that
an identified event was likely to occur to the
second clearing member or the principal of
the second clearing member,
and the identified event occurs within the period of
six months immediately following the date on
which the sale or purchase was entered into.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 62 -->

53Securities Exchange
(4) In this section-
(a) “identified event”, in relation to a second
clearing member or a person who is or was in
respect of a sale or purchase referred to in
subsection (1) means-
(i) an act of bankruptcy committed by the
second clearing member or the
principal of the second clearing
member, as the case may be;
(ii) a meeting of creditors summoned in
relation to the second clearing member
or the principal of the second clearing
member , as the case may be , pursuant
to the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007; or
(iii) the presentation of a petition for the
winding up of the second clearing
member or the principal of the second
clearing member, as the case may be,
by a court;
(b) “identified gain” in relation to a sale or
purchase referred to in subsection (1), means
the difference between –
(i) the market value of the securities which
is the subject of the sale or purchase;
and
(ii) the value of the consideration for the
sale or purchase, as at the time the sale
or purchase was entered into.
43. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, a
clearing member who enters into any transaction including
a market contract with a clearing house, notwithstanding
the fact that he is party to that transaction as an agent shall
for all purposes including any civil action, claim or demand
Clearing
Member to
be party to
certain
transactions
as principal.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 63 -->

54 Securities Exchange
by or against a clearing house be deemed to be a party to
that transaction as a principal and not as an agent.
44. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law,
where market collateral is delivered in settlement of a market
contract or under a market charge to a clearing house by a
clearing member in accordance with the rules of the clearing
house, no civil action, claim or demand in respect of any
right, title or interest in market collateral delivered to a
clearing house shall be allowed against the clearing house.
45. The clearing house shall be entitled to execute the
collateral subject to a market contract or market charge in
accordance with the procedure specified in the rules of a
clearing house.
46. (1) A central depository shall give effect to an
instruction from a clearing house to effect a transfer of
securities into or out of a securities account of an account
holder provided such instruction shall be for the purposes of
settlement of a market contract or otherwise dealing with a
market contract in accordance with the rules of the clearing
house.
(2) An instruction under subsection (1) shall be given by
a clearing house only in relation to a securities account
which relates to an  account holder who is a party to a market
contract or an  account holder who had instructed a clearing
member to effect a trade which results in a market contract to
which a clearing member has become a party.
(3) Where any transfer of securities pursuant to a market
contract is effected by the central depository to or from a
securities account of an account holder pursuant to
subsection (1), no title in such securities shall pass to an
account holder except as provided under the rules.
(4) Where a transfer of securities has been effected into or
out of a securities account of an account holder pursuant to
Application
of collateral
subject to a
market
charge.
Market
collateral
delivered to a
clearing
house.
Transfer of
Securities in
settlement.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 64 -->

55Securities Exchange
subsection (1), a central depository shall not be subject to
any action or claim by or be liable to any damages to that
account holder.
47. (1) A clearing house may require an exchange to
effect on behalf of the clearing house a sale or purchase of
securities if such sale or purchase, as the case may be, is
effected for the purposes of settlement of any market contract
or to facilitate default proceedings or to enable the clearing
house to realize any asset comprised in any market charge or
provided as market collateral, and the exchange shall give
effect to any such instruction.
(2)  Where a sale or purchase of securities has been effected
on behalf of the clearing house pursuant to subsection (1)
by an exchange, the exchange shall not be subject to any
action or claim by or be liable to any damages to any person.
48. (1) It shall be a defence in any criminal or civil
proceeding for–
(a) a person discharging, by virtue of delegation of
powers under the default rules of a clearing house
in connection with any default proceedings; or
(b) any person acting on behalf of a person referred to
in paragraph ( a), including –
(i) any member of the board of directors of the
person referred to in paragraph (a); and
(ii) any member of any Committee established
by the person referred to in paragraph ( a),
for anything done or omitted to be done with reasonable
care and in good faith in the course of, or in connection
with, the discharge or purported discharge of that obligation.
(2) Where a relevant officeholder takes action in relation
to any property of any defaulter which is liable to be dealt
within accordance with the default rules of a  licensed
Purchase and
sale of
securities.
Defences in
criminal or
civil liability.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 65 -->

56 Securities Exchange
clearing house, and the relevant officeh older reasonably
believes or has reasonable grounds for believing that he is
entitled to take that action, the relevant office holder shall
not be liable to any person in respect of any loss or damage
resulting from any action of the relevant office holder except
in so far as the loss or damage was caused by the negligence
of the relevant office holder.
CHAPTER 3
Central Depository
49. (1) A person shall not establish, operate or maintain
a central depository for handling of securities, whether or
not such securities are listed on any exchange without
obtaining a licence from the Commission.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence under this Act
and shall on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twentyfive
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
50. (1) An application for a licence to establish or
operate a central depository shall be made to the Commission
in such manner and form as may be specified by the
Commission and shall be accompanied by a fee specified by
the Commission.
(2)  An application for a licence to establish or operate a
central depository shall only be made by a body corporate.
(3)  The central depository referred to in subsection (1)
shall make rules which have satisfactory provisions with
regard to -
(a) conditions under which securities may be deposited,
held by, withdrawn from or transferred to and
recorded in the register of securities;
Prohibition
against
operating an
unlicensed
central
depository.
Application
to operate a
central
depository.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 66 -->

57Securities Exchange
(b) the processing of dealings in deposited securities;
(c) facilitating the settlement of deposited securities;
(d) the protection of the interests of account holders
and the protection and control of information on
deposited securities and dealings therein;
(e) transparent and nondiscriminatory criteria for the
admission of depository participants and the
admissible categories of depository participants;
(f) the monitoring of conditions with, and for the
enforcement of the rules of the applicant company;
(g) the expulsion, suspension, imposition of fines or
disciplining of depository participants for the
failure to comply with the rules of the central
depository;
(h) the settlement of disputes between the central
depository and the depository participants and
between depository participants; and
(i) ensuring the segregation of the securities belonging
to investors from those of the depository
participants.
(4) An applicant under subsection (1) shall provide such
information as the Commission considers necessary in
relation to the application.
(5)  The proposed central depository shall at all times
have sufficient financial, human and other resources to ensure
the provision of –
(a) adequately and properly equipped premises for the
conduct of its business;
(b) competent personnel for the conduct of its business;
and
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 67 -->

58 Securities Exchange
(c) automated systems with adequate capacity, security
arrangements and facilities to meet emergencies.
(6) Where the Commission is satisfied that it is appropriate
to do so in the public interestor for the proper regulation of
the securities market, it may, grant a licence to the applicant
to establish or operate a central depository subject to such
terms or conditions as the Commission thinks fit.
(7) Without limiting the generality of the terms and
conditions referred to in subsection (6), the Commission,
may amend, revoke or impose terms and conditions, if the
Commission is satisfied that it is appropriate to do so in the
interest of the investors, or for the proper regulation of a
central depository.
51. (1) A central depository shall –
(a) operate a safe, effective and efficient system
for the handling of securities;
(b) manage any risks associated with its business
and operations prudently; and
(c) act in the public interest having particular
regard to the need for the protection of
account holders.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, it
shall be the duty of a director of a central depository to act at
all times in the public interest having particular regard to
the need for the protection of account holders, and where
there is a conflict between this duty and a director’s duty
under the provisions of any other law the duty under this
Act shall prevail.
52. (1) The Commission may by notice in writing -
(a) cancel the licence granted under section 50
with effect from the date specified in the
notice; or
Duties of a
central
depository.
Cancellation
of licence of
a central
depository.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 68 -->

59Securities Exchange
(b) direct the central depository to cease to
provide or operate such facilities, or to cease
to provide such services, as are specified in
the notice, with effect from the date specified
in the notice.
(2) The Commission shall not cancel a licence or issue a
directive under subsection (1), unless the Commission is
satisfied that it is appropriate to do so for the protection of
investors or in the public interest or for the proper regulation
of the securities market where any of the following
circumstances occur :-
(a) the central depository ceases to operate a system
for the central handling of securities;
(b) the central depository is being wound up or
otherwise dissolved, whether within or outside
Sri Lanka;
(c) the central depository has contravened any term or
condition of its licence or is charged with any
offence under this Act;
(d) the central depository has failed to comply with a
condition, requirement or directive that is issued
under this Act;
(e) any information provided for the purposes of section
50 was false or misleading in a material particular
or from which there is a material omission;
(f) a judgment debt against the central depository has
not been satisfied in whole or in part;
(g) a receiver, a receiver and manager, liquidator or an
equivalent person has been appointed, whether
within or outside Sri Lanka, in relation to or in
respect of any property of the central depository;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 69 -->

60 Securities Exchange
(h) the central depository has, whether within or outside
Sri Lanka, entered into a compromise or scheme of
arrangement with its creditors ;or
(i) the central depository has on its own accord applied
to the Commission to cancel the licence granted to
it and the Commission, thinks it fit to do so.
(3) For the purposes of paragraph ( a) of subsection (2),
the central depository shall be deemed to have ceased to
operate a system for the central handling of securities if it
has ceased to operate such system for a period exceeding
two weeks without obtaining the prior written approval of
the Commission.
(4) Notwithstanding the cancellation of a licence or the
issuance of a directive under subsection (1), the Commission
may permit the central depository to continue, on or after
the date on which the cancellation or directive is to take
effect, to carry on such activities affected by the cancellation
or directive as the Commission may specify in the notice–
(a) for the purpose of closing down the operations of
the central depository or ceasing to provide the
services specified in the notice;
(b for the purpose of protecting the depositors; or
(c) in the public interest.
(5) Where the Commission acts under subsection (1), the
Commission may where it deems necessary appoint an
interim board of directors for a period of six months and be
extended for a period of one year to manage the affairs of the
central depository until a new board of directors is appointed.
(6) Where the Commission has granted permission to the
central depository under subsection (4), the central
depository shall not, by reason of its carrying on the activities
in accordance with the permission, be regarded as having
contravened subsection (1).
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 70 -->

61Securities Exchange
(7) The Commission shall not take any action under
subsection (1) without giving the central depository an
opportunity to be heard.
(8) A central depository which is aggrieved by the decision
of the Commission made under subsection (1) may, within
fourteen days after the central depository is notified of the
decision, appeal to the Minister.
(9) Notwithstanding the lodging of an appeal under
subsection (8), any action taken by the Commission under
this section shall continue to have effect pending the decision
of the Minister.
(10) The Minister may, on an appeal made under
subsection (8)-
(a) allow the appeal and direct the Commission to
revoke the cancellation of the licence or the
directive; or
(b) disallow the appeal.
(11) The Commission shall give effect to the directive of
the Minister.
(12) Subject to subsection (11), the Commission shall
give public notice of any cancellation of the licence or any
directive issued under this section.
53. Any cancellation of a licence or the issuance of a
directive under subsection (1) of section 52 shall not operate
so as to –
(a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
arrangement entered into on the computer system
operated by the central depository, whether the
agreement, transaction or arrangement was entered
into before or, where subsection (4) of section 52
Effect of
cancellation
of licence of
a central
depository.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 71 -->

62 Securities Exchange
applies after the cancellation of the licence or
issuance of the directive under subsection (1) of
section 52; or
(b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under
such agreement, transaction or arrangement.
54. A central depository may establish different types
of securities accounts and every such securities account
opened with a central depository shall be in the name of the
beneficial owner of the deposited securities or in the name
of the nominee.
55. All dealings of securities held in a central depository
shall be made by means of book entries in the accounts of
the central depository without the physical delivery of scrips.
56. A record of an entry in an account maintained by
the central depository shall be prima facie evidence of the
authenticity of such matter.
57. (1) Where the central depository holds securities in
trust for its holders of securities, the person for whose benefit
those securities are held in trust-
(a) shall be deemed to be the holder of such securities;
and
(b) shall in respect of those securities, enjoy all such
rights and privileges and be subject to all such
duties and obligations in respect of, or arising from,
such securities, under the Companies Act, No. 7 of
2007 as the case may be, as if he is the holder of
those securities.
(2) The rights and duties attached to the securities
maintained in the accounts of the central depository held by
a nominee shall be exercised by the beneficial owner
identified in the respective account held in the central
depository as if he is the holder of those securities.
Securities
Account.
Book Entry
securities
lodged with
the central
depository.
Effect of
securities
held in trust
by the central
depository.
Record of
entry in
depositor’s
account.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 72 -->

63Securities Exchange
(3) The appointment of a receiver, a receiver or manager,
liquidator or any equivalent person in respect of any
insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings of a depository
participant shall not affect the rights of holders of securities
held in trust by the central depository of that depository
participant.
58. Any registration of securities by the depository prior
to the enactment of this Act shall not be invalid only for the
reason that such registration has been done other than in
accordance with the provisions of this Act,regulations, rules
or directives made thereunder.
CHAPTER 4
General Provisions
59. (1)The rules of a market institution shall be approved
by the Commission and such approved rules shall operate as
a binding contract-
(a) between the market institution and each issuer of
securities;
(b) between the market institution and each trading
participant, clearing member or depository
participant as the case may be;
(c) between each issuer of securities and each trading
participant; and
(d) between trading participants, clearing members or
depository participants.
(2) The market institution, each issuer of securities, each
trading participant, clearing member and depository
participant respectively shall observe and perform the
obligations under the provisions of the rules so far as those
provisions are applicable to the market institution, issuer,
Validation.
Rules of a
market
institution.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 73 -->

64 Securities Exchange
trading participant, clearing member or depository
participant as the case may be.
(3) The rules of a market institution in so far as they have
been approved by the Commission, shall not be amended,
varied or rescinded without the prior approval of the
Commission.
(4)  Where a market institution proposes to amend its
rules, the market institution shall forward to the Commission
in writing the proposed amendment.
(5) The Commission shall, after hearing the market
institution within ninety days of receipt of the proposed
amendment give written notice to the market institution as
to whether such amendments to the rules-
(a) are allowed;or
(b) disallowed.
(6)Where the proposed amendment is disallowed, the
Commission shall give reasons for such disapproval.
(7) Where the Commission fails to revert to the market
institution within ninety days, proposed amendments to such
rules under subsection (4) shall take effect immediately on
the expiration of ninety days.
(8) Upon receipt of notice under subsection (5), the market
institution shall give immediate effect to such rule.
(9) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in
subsections (5) and (8), the Commission may amend the
rules of any market institution at any time and such rules
shall take effect with immediate effect or on such date as
specified by the Commission.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 74 -->

65Securities Exchange
60. (1) Where any person who is under a duty to comply,
observe, enforce or give effect to the rules of a market
institution fails to do so, the Commission shall require such
person to give reasons for such failure.
(2) Where the Commission is not satisfied with the reasons
given by such person, the Commission may make an
application to Court for an order under subsection (3).
(3) The Court may, make an order directing the first
mentioned person to comply, observe, enforce or give effect
to the rules of a market institution.
61. (1) A person other than a representative of the
government, shall not enter into any agreement or
arrangement to acquire any voting shares of a market
institution either individually or together with any other
person acting in concert with him, exceeding five per centum
or more of the aggregate of all the voting shares in a market
institution, without obtaining the prior written approval of
the Commission.
(2) The Commission may impose restrictions on the
maximum proportion of voting shares that may be held
directly or indirectly by a group of persons representing a
particular interest as may be determined by the Commission
by way of an Order published in the Gazette.
(3) The Commission may, at any time by publishing a
notification in the Gazette, vary the threshold referred to in
subsection (1) after taking into consideration the stage of
securities market development or the public interest.
(4)  An application for the purpose of obtaining approval
under subsection (1) shall be made by the person intending
to acquire voting shares referred to therein and shall be sent
to the Commission in the form and manner as may be
specified by the Commission.
Power of
Court to
order
observance
or
enforcement
of rules of
market
institutions.
Control of
substantial
shareholders
of a market
institution.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 75 -->

66 Securities Exchange
(5) The Commission may require the applicant –
(a) to give further information in connection with
an application; and
(b) to have any information submitted in support
of an application verified at the cost of the
applicant,
in such manner and by such persons as it may specify.
(6) The Commission may grant its approval subject to
such terms and conditions as it thinks fit to impose.
62. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, or any other law, but subject
to the provisions of this Act, where the Commission is
satisfied that any person has contravened the provisions of
section 61, it may make a preliminary order in writing,
imposing one or more of the following prohibitions as may
be applicable or appropriate in the circumstances of the
contravention in respect of any shares:-
(a) prohibit the buying of, or the carrying out of the
agreement or arrangement to buy, such voting
shares, or in the case of unissued shares, the carrying
out of the agreement or arrangement to buy or the
buying of the right to be issued with unissued
shares;
(b) prohibit the exercise of any voting rights in respect
of such shares;
(c) prohibit the issue of any further shares in right of
such shares or in pursuance of any offer made to the
holder of such shares; or
(d) except in liquidation, prohibit the payment of any
sums due from the market institution, on such shares,
whether in respect of capital, dividends or otherwise.
Power of the
Commission
to make a
preliminary
order to
impose
prohibition.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 76 -->

67Securities Exchange
(2) A preliminary order made under subsection (1) shall
be served on the person in contravention of subsection (1)
as soon as is practicable, and may be publicized in such
manner as the Commission thinks fit, if in the opinion of the
Commission it needs to be publicized.
(3) A preliminary order shall be binding on the person
who contravened subsection (1) or any person for the time
being holding the voting shares to which such order applies
and on any other person specified in the order or to whom
the order is directed.
(4) Any person against whom a preliminary order has
been made under subsection (1), or any other person
prejudicially affected by such order, may within fourteen
days of the service of the order on the person in contravention
of subsection (1), make representations in writing to the
Commission applying for the setting aside of the order on
the ground that he had not contravened the provisions in
relation to which the order has been made, or for a  variation
of the order on the ground that it would be just and proper to
vary it for reasons to be specified in the representations.
(5)  The Commission may, after considering the
representations made under subsection (4), either confirm,
set aside or vary the preliminary order.
(6) Where the Commission confirms a preliminary order,
it may make an order to the holder of the shares to which the
preliminary order applies to, directing such holder to dispose
of the shares.
(7)  The Commission may give any instruction or issue a
directive to the directors or officers of the market institution,
as may be necessary or require giving effect to any order of
the Commission under this section, or as may be incidental,
ancillary or consequential to such order.
(8)  Any transaction, including any agreement or
arrangement in relation to any shares which is in
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 77 -->

68 Securities Exchange
contravention of any preliminary order or of any order
confirmed under subsection (5) or of any instruction given
or directive issued by the Commission under subsection (7),
shall be deemed to have no effect in law.
(9)  A person who contravenes any preliminary order, any
order confirmed under subsection (5), or any instruction
given or directive issued under subsection (7), commits an
offence and shall, on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such imprisonment and fine.
63. (1) Notwithstanding any provisions in the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, a person shall not accept
appointment, reappointment, election or re-election as a
director, chief executive officer or chief regulatory officer
of a market institution unless the Commission’s prior
approval is obtained.
(2)  Where the approval of the Commission is required
under subsection (1), the Commission shall not approve, as
the case may be if -
(a) any proposed director, chief executive officer or
chief regulatory officer is an undischarged bankrupt,
whether within or outside Sri Lanka;
(b) a judgment debt against the proposed director, chief
executive or chief regulatory officer has not been
satisfied in whole or in part;
(c) the proposed director, chief executive officer or
chief regulatory officer–
(i) has been convicted, whether within or outside
Sri Lanka, of an offence, involving fraud or
dishonesty or the conviction for which
involved a finding that he has acted
fraudulently or dishonestly;
Appointment
of directors
to a market
institution.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 78 -->

69Securities Exchange
(ii) has been convicted of an offence under this
Act;
(iii) has been subject to any administrative action
taken by the Commission under this Act;
(iv) has been convicted of an offence involving
moral turpitude; or
(v) likely to have a conflict of interest;
(d) the Commission is not satisfied that the proposed
director, chief executive officer or chief regulatory
officer is a person of integrity or standing and is fit
and proper as defined in subsection (3) to be a
director, chief executive officer or chief regulatory
officer of a market institution.
(3) The Commission in considering the approval of
appointment of a proposed director, chief executive or chief
regulatory officer of the market institution inter alia, shall
have regard to the following criteria-
(i) the person has a satisfactory past performance or
expertise in the nature of the business being
conducted;
(ii) the person has an appropriate range of skills and
experience to understand, operate and manage the
activities regulated by the Commission; and
(iii) the person has the technical knowledge and ability
to perform the specified duties for which they are
engaged in including recognized professional
qualification and membership of relevant
professional institutions.
(4) A person shall not hold office of director, chief
executive or chief regulatory officer officer where such
person has contravened any provision of this Act,
regulations, rules or directives made thereunder.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 79 -->

70 Securities Exchange
(5) The criteria specified in the appointment of directors
in subsections (2) and (3) shall mutatis mutandis  apply to
the appointment of a manger or in the approval of a controller
of a market intuition by the Commission.
64. Where a market institution proposes to alter its
Articles of Association or any other material particulars
already furnished or undergo or intend to undergo a change
from the state specified in the application or renewal of
a licence, the market institution shall obtain the approval
of the Commission before such alteration or change is
effected.
65. Nothing in any written law relating to contracts to
the extent of its inconsistency with the provisions of this
Act or any rules made thereunder, or the rules of a stock
exchange, derivatives exchange or clearing house, shall
render unenforceable-
(a) any rights to be conferred on an exchange or a
clearing house in relation to securities as the case
maybe under this Act, regulations, rules or
directives made thereunder;
(b) any rights to be conferred on a party to securities
transaction entered into by an exchange under this
Act,regulations, rules or directives made
thereunder, or the rules of an exchange or a licensed
clearing house as the case may be; or
(c) anything done or omitted to be done under or in
relation to securities transaction entered into by an
exchange under this Act, regulations, rules or
directives made thereunder, as the case may be.
66. It shall be a defence in any criminal or civil
proceeding for anything done or omitted to be done by-
(a) an exchange; or
Alteration of
material
particulars of
a market
institution.
Rights of an
exchange or
a clearing
house.
Defence in
criminal or
civil liability.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 80 -->

71Securities Exchange
(b) any person acting on behalf of an exchange
including-
(i) any director of the exchange; or
(ii) any member of any committee established by
the exchange,
to prove that the exchange or the person under paragraph (b)
took all reasonable care and acted in good faith in the course
of or in connection with the discharge or purported discharge
of its obligations under this Act, regulations, rules or
directives made thereunder or the rules of such exchange.
67. (1) A market institution shall provide such assistance
to the Commission, or to a person acting on behalf of or with
the authority of the Commission, as the Commission or such
person reasonably requires, including the furnishing of such
returns, and the provision of such information relating to
the operations of the market institution as the Commission
or such person may require for the proper administration of
this Act.
(2)  A person acting on behalf of or authorized by the
Commission shall be entitled at all reasonable time to full
and free access to the trading facility of an exchange for any
of the purposes of this Act.
(3)  A person who refuses or fails without lawful excuse to
allow a person acting on behalf of or authorized by the
Commission access in accordance with subsection (2) to the
trading facility of an exchange commits an offence under
this Act.
68. (1) A market institution shall file with the
Commission an annual report, within five months of the
date of its balance sheet, which shall include-
(a) a report on the corporate governance policy of the
market institution and any other information
required by the Commission;
Annual
reports.
Provision of
assistance to
the
Commission.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 81 -->

72 Securities Exchange
(b) audited financial statements prepared in accordance
with Sri Lanka’s Accounting Standards and such
other requirements as may be specified in the rules;
and
(c) consolidated financial statements, where the market
institution is a holding company or a subsidiary
where appropriate.
(2)  The financial statements to be included in an annual
report under subsection (1) shall be audited in accordance
with Sri Lanka’s Auditing Standards.
(3)  The annual report of a clearing house and a central
depository shall also include an audited report on risk
management procedures and their application and any other
information required by the Commission.
(4)  The annual report shall include the information
required under the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007 in addition
to the information required under subsections (2) and (3) of
this section.
69. (1) If an auditor of a market institution, in the
ordinary course of performing his duties, becomes aware of –
(a) any matter which, in his opinion, adversely affects
or may adversely affect the financial position of
the market institution, to a material extent;
(b) any matter which, in his opinion, constitutes or may
constitute a breach of any provision of this Act,
regulations, rules or directives made thereunder or
an offence involving fraud or dishonesty affecting
the financial stability of the market institution to a
material extent; or
(c) any irregularity that has or may have a material
effect on the accounts of the market institution,
including any irregularity that adversely affects or
may adversely affect, the funds or property of
investors in securities,
Duties of an
auditor of a
market
institution.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 82 -->

73Securities Exchange
the auditor shall immediately send to the board of directors
a written report of the matter or the irregularity with a copy
to the Commission.
(2)  An auditor of a market institution shall not be liable
to any suit by any person in respect of any statement made
in his report under subsection (1) provided the auditor has
acted in good faith.
(3)  Subsection (2) shall not restrict or affect any right,
privilege or immunity that the auditor of a market institution,
may have, apart from this section, as a defendant in an action
for defamation.
(4)  The Commission may impose all or any of the
following duties on an auditor of a market institution:–
(a) a duty to submit such additional information and
reports in relation to his audit as the Commission
considers necessary;
(b) a duty to enlarge, extend or alter the scope of his
audit of the business and affairs of the market
institution;
(c) a duty to carry out any other examination or
establish any procedure in any particular case; or
(d) a duty to submit a report on any matter arising out
of his audit, examination or establishment of
procedure referred to in paragraph (b) or (c), and the
auditor shall carry out such duties, as an extension
to his ordinary audit scope for issuing an
independent opinion on the financial statements.
(5)  The market institution shall remunerate the auditor
in terms of the fees schedule published by the Commission
in respect of the discharge by him of all or any of the duties
referred to in subsection (4) and in circumstances where
further investigation is necessary remuneration to auditors
shall be paid by the Fund of the Commission.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 83 -->

74 Securities Exchange
70. A market institution, shall submit to the Commission
such reports including a risk management audit in such form,
manner and frequency as may be specified by the
Commission.
71. A market institution shall pay to the Commission
an annual fee as may be prescribed by the Commission.
72. (1) A person shall not hold out as a stock exchange,
a derivatives exchange, a clearing house or a central
depository and shall not take or use or by inference adopt
the name, title or description of “stock exchange”,
“derivatives exchange”, “futures exchange”, “stock market”,
“derivatives market”, “futures market”, “clearing house”,
“clearing facility”, “central depository”, “securities trading
market”, “derivatives trading market” or “ futures trading
market”, or take or use or have attached to or exhibited at
any place any name, title or description implying or tending
to create the belief that such person is a stock exchange ,
derivatives exchange, clearing house or a central depository.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) shall commit an offence.
73. (1) A person who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Commission may make an application to the Commission
to review its decision within thirty days after the aggrieved
person is notified of such decision.
(2)  The Commission shall communicate its decision to
the applicant in writing not later than ninety days from the
date the application is received.
PART III
ISSUE OF SECURITIES
74. The object and purpose of this Part shall be–
(a)  to regulate the issue of securities;
Obligation to
submit
periodic
reports.
Payment of
annual fee.
Power of the
Commission
to review its
own
decision.
Prohibition
against
holding out.
Object and
purpose of
this Part.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 84 -->

75Securities Exchange
(b) to ensure the disclosure of financial
information by listed public companies;
(c) to require auditors to disclose financial
irregularities;
(d) to licence market intermediaries and register
their representatives; and
(e) to protect clients’ assets.
CHAPTER 1
Trade in Securities
75. (1) A corporate entity listed or unlisted shall not
make a public offer of securities either directly or through a
third party by way of a prospectus or a similar document or
otherwise for the purposes of solicitation of funds from the
public unless approved by the Commission or a person
authorized by the Commission.
(2) A public offer means an offer made to the public in
terms of the criteria provided in subsection (3) other than an
offer made to an accredited investor. Such accredited investor
shall be prohibited from making a subsequent sale of such
securities to the public.
(3) The Commission shall specify, the type of public
offers under subsection (1) by reference to the volume of
securities, class of securities, the number and type of
investors, the type and nature of the issuer, type of securities
market or whether such public offer is regulated by a
comparative regulator by way of rules published in the
Gazette.
(4) The Commission may subject to such terms and
conditions published by way of rules in the Gazette exempt,
any securities or any class of securities by reference to type,
Offer of
Securities.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 85 -->

76 Securities Exchange
volume, value, limited character or nature from the provisions
of this Act except securities of listed public companies
and listed foreign entities.
76. (1) Any person other than a listed public company,
prior to making a public offer of securities shall obtain the
approval of the Commission or any person authorized by
the Commission.
(2) A listed public company shall obtain the approval of
the Commission or any person authorized by the Commission
in respect of -
(a) any new issue or offer for sale of securities to the
public, whether such issues or offers for sale are by
way of a public offer or otherwise;
(b) private placement of securities;
(c) rights issues of securities;
(d) bonus issues of securities; or
(e) schemes of arrangements, schemes of reconstruction,
take over schemes, share option schemes and
acquisition of assets by way of issues of securities.
(3) Any approval of such offer of securities shall be
communicated within a period not exceeding twenty
calendar days unless otherwise communicated in writing.
(4) A listed foreign entity shall obtain the approval of the
Commission or any person authorized by the Commission
for a public offer of securities at the time of listing on an
exchange.
(5) The board of directors of every listed public company
and listed foreign entity shall ensure that the company or
the entity shall comply with the rules and requirements of
the exchange in which it is listed at all times so long as the
company or the entity remains listed on the exchange.
Approval of
the
Commission
for issue of
securities.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 86 -->

Securities Exchange 77
5
10
15
20
77. (1) The prospectus or similar document prepared by
a person making an offer to the public shall comply with the
requirements specified in the Companies Act, No. 7 of  2007,
and any other requirements specified by the Commission and
in the rules of an exchange.
(2)  A person making an issue of securities to the public
shall lodge a copy of the prospectus or the similar document
with the Commission or with any person authorized by the
Commission for that purpose prior to registration of the
prospectus as required under the Companies Act, No. 7 of
2007.
(3) The Commission shall have the power to examine any
prospectus or similar document when a person makes a public
offer of securities for the purpose of solicitation of funds
from the public.
78. (1) The Commission may issue an order to the issuer
not to allot, issue, offer or make an invitation to subscribe for
or purchase or sell further securities relating to public offers,
if the Commission is of the opinion that–
(a) a prospectus or similar document does not comply
with or is not prepared as specified in subsection (1)
of section 77 of this Act;
(b) a prospectus or similar document contains a
statement or information that is false or misleading
or constitutes a material omission; or
(c) an issuer has not complied with the requirements
imposed under this Act, any regulations, rules or
directives made thereunder or rules of an exchange
or the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007.
(2) The Commission may make an interim order if the
Commission considers that any delay in making such an order
under subsection (1) would be prejudicial to the interest of
investors.
Prospectus or
similar
document.
Commission
to issue stop
orders.
25
30

<!-- page 87 -->

78 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
(3) Subject to subsections (2) and (4), the Commission
shall not make an order under subsection (1) unless the
Commission has given a reasonable opportunity to be heard
to any affected person as to whether such an order should be
made.
(4) An interim order under subsection (2) shall, unless
previously revoked have effect until the end of twenty one
days after the day on which it is made or the conclusion of
the hearing in subsection (3), whichever date is later.
(5) An interim order made under subsection (2) may be
revoked by the Commission by way of a directive if the
Commission becomes satisfied that the circumstances that
resulted in the making of the order no longer exist.
(6) Where applications to subscribe for or purchase
securities to which the prospectus or similar document relates
have been made prior to the stop order made under
subsection (1) –
(a) where the securities have not been issued to the
applicants, the applications shall be deemed to have
been withdrawn and cancelled and the issuer or such
other person who receives the monies, shall,
forthwith repay without interest all monies received
from the applicants and if the money is not repaid
within fourteen days of the stop order, the issuer
shall be liable to repay the monies with interest as
may be specified by the Commission from the
expiration of that period; or
(b) where the securities have been issued to the
applicants, the issue of securities shall be deemed
to be void and the issuer or any other person shall
forthwith repay without interest all monies received
from the applicants and if such money is not repaid
30

<!-- page 88 -->

Securities Exchange 79
5
10
15
20
within fourteen days of the date of service of the
stop order the issuer shall be liable to repay such
monies with interest at the rate as may be specified
by the Commission from the expiration of that period.
(7)  Provisions of this section shall not apply in respect of
any issuer if any of the securities to which the prospectus or
similar document relates have been listed on an exchange
and trading in them has commenced.
79. (1) A person holding securities in acompany listed
on a stock exchange shall not buy, sell, gift or otherwise deal
in such securities off the trading floor without the prior
approval of the Commission except in compliance with the
trading procedure adopted by such stock exchange.
(2) A person as referred to in subsection (1) may gift any
such securities to a relation otherwise than in compliance
with such trading procedure if he gives prior notice to the
Commission and the exchange of the particulars relating to
the proposed gift.
(3)  In this section “relation” means a parent, spouse,
child (including step children) or sibling (including step
brother or step sister) of that person or the spouse of a child
of that person.
80. (1) Where it appears to the Commission that -
(a) there exist circumstances suggesting from
the disclosures made to the public that the
business of a listed public company has
been conducted–
( i ) for a fraudulent or unlawful
purpose;
(ii) in a manner that contravenes the
provisions of this Act, regulations,
rules or directives made thereunder
or rules of a market institution; or
25
30
Purchase,
sale or
transfer of
securities.
Power of the
Commission
to require the
production of
documents.

<!-- page 89 -->

80 Securities Exchange
(iii) in a manner, prejudicial to the
interest of investors;
(b) there exist circumstances suggesting that
a company was listed for a fraudulent or
unlawful purpose;
(c) there exist circumstances suggesting that
the persons concerned with the listing of a
company or the management of its affairs
in relation to the listing or management of
its affairs have been guilty of fraud,
wrongdoing or other misconduct; or
(d) there exist circumstances suggesting that
the director or management of a listed
public company have intentionally
suppressed information with respect to the
affairs of the company that is required to
be provided under this Act, regulations,
rules or directives made thereunder or as
may reasonably be expected to be released
to the public,
the Commission may issue directives to the listed public
company requiring such company to produce the documents,
electronic records or other information specified in the
directive at a specified time and place.
(2) The Commission may delegate its authority under
subsection (1) to any person to require the submission of
documents, electronic records or any other information for
the purposes of subsection (1).
(3) The Commission or an authorized person may require
the production of documents and electronic records from a
listed public company under this section.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 90 -->

Securities Exchange 81
(4) The Commission or an authorized person may also
require production of such documents and electronic records
from a person who appears to the Commission or authorized
person to be in possession of them and where the Commission
or the authorized person is of the opinion that a person is in
possession of such documents and records, the Commission
or the authorized officer may require such person to produce
such documents or electronic records.
(5) Where such documents or electronic records referred
to in subsections (1), (2) and (3) are produced, the Commission
or the authorized officer shall require the listed public
company–
(a) to take copies of them or extracts from them; and
(b) to require that person or any other person who is a
present or past officer of the listed public company
or was at any time employed by the listed public
company to provide an explanation of such
documents and electronic records;
(c) where the records and documents and electronic
records are not produced, the person required to
produce to give reasons for failure to produce such
documents and records; or
(d) where the documents and electronic records are not
produced, the person required to produce them shall
disclose its location to the best of his knowledge
and belief.
(6) Where any listed public company fails to comply with
this section, the Commission shall issue a directive to the
listed public company under section 81 of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 91 -->

82 Securities Exchange
81. Where it appears to the Commission that a listed
public company has contravened or failed to comply with
any provision of the Act, regulations, rules or directives in
purported compliance with such provisions of the Act,
regulations, rules or directives or has furnished the
Commission with information that is false, inaccurate or
misleading, the Commission may issue a directive to the listed
public company-
(a) to cease and desist from any contravention of this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder;
(b) to do or refrain from doing any matter as specified
under this Act, regulations, rules or directives made
thereunder; or
(c) to carry out any other matter that the Commission
considers necessary in the exercise of its powers
under this Act, regulations, rules or directives made
thereunder.
82. (1) A person who furnishes information or cause
information to be furnished to the Commission under this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder shall
exercise due care to ensure that the information is not false or
misleading in any material particular.
(2)  A person who -
(a) signs a document lodged with the Commission; or
(b) submits to the Commission a document by electronic
means using any identification or other
authentication method or procedure assigned to him
by the Commission,
shall exercise due care to ensure that the document is not
false or misleading in a material particular.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Power of the
Commission
to issue
directives to
listed public
companies.
Duty not to
furnish false
information
to the
Commission.

<!-- page 92 -->

Securities Exchange 83
(3)  A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits
an offence under this Act.
83. A person with intent to deceive, makes or furnishes,
or knowingly and willfully authorizes or permits the making
or furnishing of any misleading statement or report to a market
institution licensed under this Act in relation to any
information that a listed public company is required to furnish
under this Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder
commits an offence under this Act.
84. (1) A listed public company shall maintain the status
of a listed public company on the exchange as specified in
the rules of an exchange.
(2)  The directors or chief executive officer of the listed
public company shall comply with the fit and proper criteria
specified by the Commission or in the rules of an exchange in
appointing or maintaining directors or chief executive officer
to the listed public company.
 85. (1) If an auditor of a listed public company in the
ordinary course of the performance of his duties is of the
professional opinion that there has been a contravention or
non compliance with any requirement or provision of this
Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder or a
breach of any of the rules of an exchange or any matter which
may adversely affect the financial position of the listed public
company to a material extent, the auditor shall immediately
report such matter or non compliance to the audit committee
in writing to rectify and if no remedial measure is taken within
two weeks thereof , refer the matter to the board of directors
in writing to rectify the breach or deter the commission of a
breach where it has not yet happened.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Duty not to
make false
statements to
market
institutions.
Appointing
Directors or
Chief
Executive
Officer.
Duties of an
auditor of a
listed public
company.

<!-- page 93 -->

84 Securities Exchange
(2) If no action is taken under subsection (1) by the board
of directors to rectify the breach or non compliance within
two weeks, the auditor shall submit a written report on the
matter immediately thereupon–
(a) in the case of a breach or non compliance with any
requirement or provision of this Act, regulations,
rules or directives issued thereunder, to the
Commission;
(b) in the case of a breach or non compliance with the
rules of an exchange, to the relevant exchange and
the Commission; or
(c) where an auditor becomes aware of actual or
intended conduct of the company which the auditor
has reason to believe would constitute an imminent
breach of a law or regulation or commission of a
fraudulent act which may cause substantial harm to
the financial position of the listed public company
to a material extent, to the relevant exchange and the
Commission.
(3) No auditor shall be liable to be sued in any court of law
for any report submitted by the auditor in good faith and on
the intended performance of any duty imposed on the auditor
under this section.
(4)  The Commission may at any time during or after an
audit, require an auditor of a listed public company to–
(a) submit such additional information in relation to his
audit as the Commission may specify;
(b) enlarge or extend the scope of his audit of the
business and affairs of the listed public company in
such manner or to such extent as the Commission
may specify;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 94 -->

Securities Exchange 85
(c) carry out any specific examination or establish any
procedure in any particular case; or
(d) submit a report including an interim report on any
matter referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c),
and the Commission may specify the time within which
such requirements shall be complied with by the auditor.
(5) The auditor shall comply with any requirement of the
Commission under subsection (4) and the listed public
company shall remunerate the auditor at the rates specified
by the Commission in respect of the discharge by him of all
additional duties under this section.
(6) The listed public company shall provide such
information and access to such information as the auditor
shall require in respect of the discharge by him of all of the
additional duties under this section.
86. (1) A person shall not influence, coerce, mislead or
authorize any person engaged in –
(a) the preparation of the financial statements of a listed
public company or any of its related companies; or
 (b) the performance of an audit of the financial
statements of a listed public company or any of its
related companies,
to do anything which he knows or could reasonably
have known may cause the financial statements or
audited financial statements to be false or misleading
in a material particular.
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence.
5
10
15
20
25
Prohibition
against undue
influence.

<!-- page 95 -->

86 Securities Exchange
CHAPTER 2
Marker Intermediaries
87. (1) A person shall not hold out as a market
intermediary without obtaining a licence from the Commission.
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence and shall on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five million
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
88. (1) Any person who carries on or intends to carry on
business as a market intermediary shall hold a licence issued
for that purpose by the Commission.
(2)  Any person 
who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence and shall on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five million
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
89. (1) An application for the purpose of a licence under
this section or renewal of the licence under subsection (4) of
this section shall be made to the Commission in such form
together with such documents and such fee as may be
specified by the Commission.
(2)  The Commission may require an applicant –
(a)  to furnish further information in connection
with an application in such form and manner as
it may specify; and
(b)  to have any information submitted in support
of an application verified at the cost of the
applicant in such manner and by such persons
as it may specify.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Prohibition
against
holding out
as a market
intermediary.
Requirement
to be licensed
with the
Commission.
Application
for a licence
or renewal of
a licence as a
market
intermediary.

<!-- page 96 -->

Securities Exchange 87
(3) An application for renewal of a licence under this
section shall be made three months prior to the expiry of the
licence, accompanied by the renewal fee as may be prescribed
by the Commission.
(4) Where an applicant submits an application for renewal
of a licence after the expiry of its licence, the Commission
may in addition to the renewal fee, impose a late fee not
exceeding five per centum  of the licensing fee as may be
prescribed for each day of delay until the renewal is made.
(5) The Commission may grant or renew a licence for the
purposes of this Chapter, subject to such conditions or
restrictions as it thinks fit.
90. (1) Where an application is made for the grant or
renewal of a licence to act as a market intermediary, the
Commission may refuse the application on any of the following
grounds:-
(a) the application was not made in accordance with
this Chapter;
(b) the applicant has failed to comply with any
requirement of this Act, regulations and the rules
made thereunder;
(c) any information or document that is furnished by
the applicant to the Commission is false or
misleading or from which there is a material omission;
(d) the applicant is in the course of being wound up or
otherwise dissolved or an undischarged bankrupt;
(e) execution against the applicant in respect of a
judgment debt has been returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part;
5
10
15
20
25
Refusal to
grant or
renew a
licence.

<!-- page 97 -->

88 Securities Exchange
(f) a receiver, a receiver and manager or an equivalent
person has been appointed within or outside Sri
Lanka in respect of any property of the applicant;
(g) the applicant has, whether within or outside Sri
Lanka entered into a compromise or scheme of
arrangement with its creditors, being a compromise
or scheme of arrangement that is still in operation;
(h) the applicant or any of its directors, chief executive
officer, managers or controller–
(i) has been convicted, whether within or outside
Sri Lanka of an offence involving fraud or
dishonesty or the conviction of which involved
a finding that he acted fraudulently or
dishonestly;
(ii) has been subjected to any administrative
action taken by the Commission under this
Act;
(iii)  has been convicted or has been compounded
of an offence for which he has been charged
under this Act or under the laws governing
securities outside Sri Lanka;
(iv) has contravened any provision made by or
under any law whether within or outside Sri
Lanka enacted for protecting members of the
public against financial loss due to
dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice by
persons concerned in the provision of financial
services or the management of companies;
(v) has engaged in any business practices that
may be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise
improper or reflect discredit on its method of
conducting business;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 98 -->

Securities Exchange 89
(vi)  has engaged in or has been associated with
any other business practices or otherwise
conducted itself or himself in such a way as to
cast doubt on its or his competence and
integrity; or
(vii) is an undischarged bankrupt whether within
or outside Sri Lanka;
(i) the Commission has reason to believe that the
applicant or any of its directors, chief executive
officer or controller may not be able to act in the
best interest of its clients having regard to their
reputation, character, financial integrity and
reliability;
(j) the Commission is not satisfied as to the financial
standing of the applicant or the manner in which the
applicant’s business is to be conducted;
(k) the Commission is not satisfied as to the record of
past performance or expertise of the applicant,
having regard to the nature of the business which
the applicant may carry on in connection with the
holding of the licence and there exists circumstances
which are likely to -
(i)  lead to the improper conduct of business by
the applicant or by any of its directors, chief
executive officer or controller; or
(ii) reflect discredit on the manner of conducting
the business of the applicant;
(l) the Commission has reason to believe that the
applicant or any of its directors, chief executive
officer or controller will not carry on the business
efficiently, honestly or fairly; or
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 99 -->

90 Securities Exchange
(m) the Commission is of the opinion that it would be
contrary to the interests of the investors to grant or
renew the licence.
(2)  The Commission shall not refuse to grant or renew a
licence without giving the applicant an opportunity to be
heard.
91. A market intermediary shall not carry on business
for which it is licensed under this Chapter, without the written
consent of the Commission if it does not meet the minimum
financial requirements as may be specified by the Commission
or as may be provided in the rules of an exchange.
92. (1) A person who deals with clients for and on behalf
of a market intermediary shall register with the Commission
and shall be known as the registered person for that purpose.
(2) For the purposes of seeking registration under
subsection (1), a market intermediary shall make an application
to the Commission on behalf of that person.
93. (1) An application of a person for the purpose of
registration or renewal of the registration shall be made to the
Commission in such form together with such documents and
such fee as may be specified by the Commission.
(2) The Commission may require an applicant–
(a) to furnish further information in connection
with an application in such form and manner
as it may specify; and
(b) to have any information submitted in support
of an application verified at the cost of the
applicant in such manner and by such persons
as it may specify.
5
10
15
20
25
Minimum
financial
requirements.
Requirement
to register
with the
Commission.
Application
for
registration
or renewal of
registration.

<!-- page 100 -->

Securities Exchange 91
(3) An application for renewal of registration under this
section shall be made three months prior to the expiry of the
registration.
(4) Where an applicant submits an application for renewal
of registration after the expiry of its registration, the
Commission may in addition to the renewal fee impose a late
fee not exceeding five per centum of the registration fee as
may be prescribed for each day of delay until the renewal is
made.
 (5) The Commission may grant or renew a registration
for the purposes of this Chapter, subject to such conditions
or restrictions as it thinks fit.
94. (1) Where an application is made for the grant or
renewal of registration as a registered person under this Part,
the Commission may refuse the application on any of the
following grounds:—
(a)  the application was not made in accordance with
section 93;
(b)  the applicant has failed to comply with any
requirement of section 93;
(c)  any information or document that is furnished by
the applicant to the Commission is false or
misleading or from which there is a material omission;
(d)  the applicant is an undischarged insolvent or an
undischarged bankrupt whether within or outside
Sri Lanka;
(e)  execution against the applicant in respect of a
judgment debt has been returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part;
5
10
15
20
25
Grounds for
refusal to
register or
renew
registration.

<!-- page 101 -->

92 Securities Exchange
(f)  the applicant has –
(i) been convicted, whether within or outside Sri
Lanka of an offence involving fraud or other
dishonesty or the conviction of which involved
a finding that he acted fraudulently or
dishonestly;
(ii)  been subjected to any administrative action
taken by the Commission under this Act;
(iii)  been convicted or compounded of an offence
under this Act or under the laws governing
securities outside Sri Lanka;
(iv)  contravened any provision made by or under
any written law whether within or outside Sri
Lanka appearing to the Commission to be
enacted for protecting members of the public
against financial loss due to dishonesty,
incompetence or malpractice by persons
concerned in the provision of financial
services or the management of companies or
against financial loss due to the conduct of
discharged or undischarged bankrupts;
(v) engaged in any business practice appearing
to the Commission to be deceitful or otherwise
improper, whether unlawful or not or otherwise
reflect discredit on the method of conducting
business; or
(vi) engaged in or has been associated with any
other business practices or otherwise
conducted himself in such a way as to cast
doubt on the competence and soundness of
judgment;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 102 -->

Securities Exchange 93
(g)  the Commission is not satisfied as to the educational
or other qualification or experience of the applicant
having regard to the nature of the duties to be
performed for and on behalf of the market
intermediary;
(h)  the Commission has reason to believe that the
applicant may not be able to act in the best interests
of the clients of the market intermediary having
regard to his reputation, character, financial integrity
and reliability;
(i)  the Commission is not satisfied as to the record of
past performance or expertise of the applicant having
regard to the nature of the duties to be performed
for and on behalf of the market intermediary;
(j)  the Commission has reason to believe that the
applicant has not acted honestly or fairly; or
(k)  the Commission is of the opinion that it would be
contrary to the interests of investors to grant or
renew the registration.
(2)  The Commission shall not refuse to grant or renew the
registration without giving the applicant an opportunity to
be heard.
95. The Commission may, at any time by notice in writing
to a market intermediary or registered person, vary any
condition or restriction or impose such further condition or
restriction as it considers necessary for the protection of
investors.
96. (1) A licence that has been granted under this Part
shall be valid for a period of twelve months from the date of
issue of the licence.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Power to
vary
conditions or
restrictions.
Duration of
licence or
registration.

<!-- page 103 -->

94 Securities Exchange
(2)  A licence that has been renewed under this Part shall
continue to be in force for a further period of twelve months
or such later date as may be specified by the Commission
commencing on the date upon which it would have expired
but for its renewal.
(3)  Where a licence is renewed for a period of more than
twelve months, in terms of subsection (2), the market
intermediary shall pay to the Commission the specified licence
fee in the manner specified by the Commission.
(4)  The provisions of subsections (1) to (3) of this section
shall, mutadis mutandis , apply to, and in relation to the
duration of the registration granted to a registered person
under this Part.
97. (1) A person shall not, in connection with an
application submitted to the Commission under this Part –
(a)  make or procure the making of a statement to the
Commission which he knows or could reasonably
be expected to know is false or misleading; or
(b)  omit to state any matter to the Commission where
he knows or could reasonably be expected to know
that because of the omission, the statement is
misleading in a material respect.
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence.
98. (1) Where a market intermediary proposes to alter
material particulars already furnished or undergoes or intend
to undergo a change from the particulars specified in the
application for a licence or the renewal of a licence, it shall be
the duty of such market intermediary to inform the
Commission and obtain its prior consent before such alteration
or change is effected.
5
10
15
20
25
30
False and
misleading
statements to
the
Commission.
Duty to
notify the
Commission.

<!-- page 104 -->

Securities Exchange 95
(2)  Where a registered person proposes to alter any
particulars already furnished or undergo or intend to undergo
a change from the state specified in the application for
registration or renewal of a registration as a registered person,
it shall be the duty of such registered person and the market
intermediary for whom the registered person is acting for or
employed, to forthwith inform the Commission of such
alteration or change.
99. A person shall not act as an agent in carrying on the
business of a licensed market intermediary or hold himself
out as doing so unless he is duly authorized by the
Commission or a person authorized by the Commission to act
as an agent of a market intermediary to carry on such activity.
100. (1) The Commission shall, cancel or suspend a
licence granted to a market intermediary under this Part, where
the Commission is satisfied that-
(a)  there exists a ground on which the Commission may
refuse an application for a licence;
(b)  the market intermediary has contravened any
condition or restriction in respect of its licence or
any directive issued to him by the Commission under
this Act; or
(c)  the market intermediary has contravened any rules
binding upon him as the case may be.
(2)  Before the cancellation or suspension of a licence
granted to a market intermediary in terms of subsection (1) of
this section, the market intermediary shall be given an
opportunity to be heard.
 (3)  Where the licence granted to a market intermediary is
cancelled, it shall be the duty of the market intermediary to
forthwith surrender its licence to the Commission.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Prohibition
against
holding out
as an agent.
Cancellation
or suspension
of licence or
registration.

<!-- page 105 -->

96 Securities Exchange
(4)  The cancellation of a licence by the Commission under
subsection (1) shall not affect or prejudice the institution or
maintenance of any action against such market intermediary
under this Act.
(5)  The Commission shall have the power to suspend or
cancel the registration granted to a registered person under
this Part in accordance with the rules specified by the
Commission.
(6)  The provisions of subsections (1) to (4) of this section
shall, mutatis mutandis , apply to, and in relation to, any
suspension or cancellation as the case may be, of a
registration granted to a registered person under this Part.
101. A market intermediary or registered person shall
not –
(a) trade in or otherwise deal in securities outside the
exchange of which he is a trading participant without
the prior approval of the Commission;
(b) trade in securities in contravention of such rules of
the Commission or 
the rules of a market institution;
(c) effect any transaction in a margin account in a manner
contrary to the requirements set out by the market
institution of which he is a trading participant; or
(d) effect any transaction by means of any manipulative,
deceptive or other fraudulent device or contrivance
in order to induce or attempt to induce the purchase
or sale of any securities.
102. A market intermediary shall not lend or arrange for
lending of any securities carried for the account of any client
without the client’s written consent or borrow or arrange to
borrow, using the securities carried for the account of any
client as collateral without the client’s written consent.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Trading in
securities by
market
intermediaries.
Lending and
borrowing of
securities
without the
consent of
the client.

<!-- page 106 -->

Securities Exchange 97
5
10
15
20
103. (1)  If an auditor of a market intermediary, in the
ordinary course of the performance of his duties as an auditor,
is of the professional opinion that there has been a breach or
non compliance of any requirement or provision of this Act,
regulations, rules or directives made thereunder or a breach
of any of the rules of a market institution or any matter
which may adversely affect the financial position of the
market intermediary to a material extent, the auditor shall
immediately submit a written report to the board of directors
on the matter with a copy to–
(a) in the case of a breach or non compliance of any
requirement or provision of this Act, regulations,
rules or directives made thereunder, to the
Commission;
(b) in the case of a breach or non compliance of any of
the rules of a market institution, to the relevant
market institution and the Commission; or
(c) in any other case, which adversely affects the
financial position of the market intermediary to a
material extent, to the relevant market institution
and the Commission.
(2) No auditor shall be liable to be sued in any court for
any report submitted by the auditor in good faith and on the
intended performance of any duty imposed on the auditor
under this section.
(3)  The Commission may at any time during or after an
audit, require an auditor of a market intermediary to–
(a) submit such additional information in relation to
his audit as the Commission may specify;
(b) enlarge or extend the scope of his audit of the
business and affairs of the market intermediary in
such manner or to such extent as the Commission
may specify;
25
30
Duty of an
auditor of a
market
intermediary.

<!-- page 107 -->

98 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
(c) carry out any specific examination or establish any
procedure in any particular case; or
(d) submit a report or an interim report as the case may
be on any matter referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c),
and the Commission may specify the time within which such
requirements shall be complied with by the auditor.
(4) The auditor shall comply with any requirement of the
Commission under subsection (3) and the market
intermediary shall remunerate the auditor at the rates
specified by the Commission in respect of the discharge by
him of all additional duties under this section.
(5) The market intermediary shall provide such
information and access to such information as the auditor
shall require in respect of the discharge by him of all of the
additional duties under this section.
CHAPTER 3
Protection of clients’ assets
104. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context
otherwise requires—
“client” in relation to a market intermediary means a
person on behalf of whom the market intermediary
trades or from whom the market intermediary accepts
instructions from, to deal in securities.
105. (1) A market intermediary shall, to the extent that
it receives money or other assets from or on account of a
client –
(a)  do so on the basis that the money or other assets
shall be applied solely for such purpose as may be
agreed to by the client when or before it receives
the money or other assets;30
Interpretation.
Protection of
client’s
assets.

<!-- page 108 -->

Securities Exchange 99
5
10
15
20
(b)  hold money and other assets received on account
of a client in trust for the benefit of such client;
(c)  shall not commingle money received on account
of a client with its own funds or use such money as
margin or guarantee for, or to secure any transaction
of or to extend credit of any person other than the
client without his written consent;
(d)  record and maintain a separate book entry for each
client in accordance with the provisions of this Part
or any rules that may be specified under subsection
(2) in relation to that client’s money or other assets.
(2)  The Commission may, make rules in respect of all or
any of the matters in subsection (1), including the handling
of money or other assets by a market intermediary.
(3)  Except as otherwise provided in this section or the
rules made under subsection (2), all money or other assets
received from or on account of clients or deposited with a
market intermediary-
(a)  shall not be available for payment of debts of the
market intermediary; and
(b)  shall not be liable to be paid or taken in execution
under an order or a process of any court in respect
of any liability of that market intermediary.
(4) Any market intermediary who, contravenes subsection
(1), subsection (3) or any rule made under subsection (2),
shall be guilty of an offence.
106. (1) The Commission may make rules regulating
the business conduct of a market intermediary or a registered
person as the Commission considers necessary in the interest
of client protection and for the purpose of raising professional
standards of a market intermediary and a registered person.
25
30
Rules on
business
conduct.

<!-- page 109 -->

100 Securities Exchange
(2)  Any person who contravenes the rules made under
subsection (1) commits an offence.
107. (1) A market intermediary or a registered person
shall not make a recommendation with respect to any
securities to a person other than an accredited investor where
such person may reasonably be expected to rely on the
recommendation, if the market intermediary or registered
person does not have a reasonable basis for making the
recommendation to the person and also caution that the value
of securities may fluctuate.
(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1), a market
intermediary or registered person does not have a reasonable
basis for making a recommendation to a person unless–
(a)  he has, for the purposes of ascertaining that the
recommendation is appropriate, had regard to the
information possessed by him concerning the
investment objectives, financial situation and
particular needs of the person is accurate and
complete; and
(b) he has exercised due diligence into the subject
matter of the recommendation as is reasonable in
all the circumstances and made the
recommendations accordingly.
(3)  Where a market intermediary or registered person
violates subsection (1), the market intermediary or registered
person is liable to compensate any direct loss or damage to
a person where–
(a)  the person in reliance on the recommendation does
a particular act or refrains from doing a particular
act;
(b) it is rational, having regard to the recommendation
and all other relevant circumstances, for the person
to do that act or to refrain from doing that act in
reliance on the recommendation; and
5
10
15
20
25
30
Liability for
unreasonable
recommenda-
tions.

<!-- page 110 -->

Securities Exchange 101
(c)  the person suffers loss or damage as a result of doing
that act or refraining from doing that act, as the
case may be without prejudice to any other remedy
available to that person.
(4) The Commission may exempt any market
intermediary or class of market intermediaries from the
application of this section under such conditions as may be
specified by the Commission.
(5) A market intermediary or a registered person shall
not be liable under subsection (3), if it is proved that the
person in the circumstances would have done or omitted to
do that act disregarding the recommendation made by the
market intermediary or the registered person under subsection
(1).
(6) In the case of a contravention of subsection (1), a
market intermediary or a registered person shall not be liable
if it is proved that the recommendation was in all
circumstances, appropriate having regard to the information
that the market intermediary or the registered person had
about the client’s investment objectives, financial situation
and particular needs when the market intermediary or the
registered person makes the recommendation.
108. (1) Where a market intermediary sends a circular
or other similar written communication in which he makes a
recommendation, with respect to any securities, he shall
include in the circular or other communication a concise
statement of the nature of any interest in the acquisition or
disposal of the securities that he or a person associated with
or connected to him, has at the date on which the circular or
other communication is sent.
(2)  Where a market intermediary contravenes subsection
(1), he shall be charged with an offence in respect of a
5
10
15
20
25
Disclose
certain
interests in
securities.
30

<!-- page 111 -->

102 Securities Exchange
contravention of subsection (1), it shall be a defence for the
market intermediary to prove that at the time the circular or
other communication was sent, he was not aware and could
not reasonably be expected to have been aware —
(a) that he had an interest in the acquisition or disposal
of the securities; or
(b) that the person associated with or connected to him
had an interest in the acquisition or disposal of the
securities as the case may be.
(3)  For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2) -
(a) an interest of a person in the acquisition or disposal
of any securities includes any financial benefit or
advantage that will or is likely to accrue directly or
indirectly to the person upon or arising out of the
acquisition or disposal of the securities;
(b) without limiting the generality of paragraph ( a), a
person who has entered into an underwriting
agreement in respect of any securities shall be
deemed to have an interest in the acquisition or
disposal of the securities; and
(c) notwithstanding subsection (1) or paragraph ( b) of
subsection (2), a person is not connected to or
associated with another person unless the person
and the other person are acting jointly or otherwise
acting under or in accordance with an arrangement
made between them, in relation to the sending of
the circular or other communication.
(4) When a market intermediary sends to a person a circular
or other communication to which subsection (1) applies, the
market intermediary shall preserve a copy of the circular or
other communication for six years.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 112 -->

Securities Exchange 103
(5)  For the purposes of this section, a circular or other
communication sent to a person shall, if it is signed by an
officer of a market intermediary, be deemed to have been
sent by the market intermediary.
(6) Any person who contravenes this section commits an
offence under this Act.
109. A market intermediary shall establish and maintain
reasonable procedures and processes in writing for the
purpose of monitoring compliance with the Act, regulations,
rules or directives made thereunder which will enable the
market intermediary to monitor risk to its business.
110. (1) The Commission shall keep in such form and
manner as it may determine, a register of market
intermediaries andregistered persons which shall be made
available for public inspection in such manner as the
Commission may determine.
(2) The register shall be in electronic form and the
Commission shall update the register at all times.
(3)  The register for the market intermediary and the
registered person shall contain –
(a)  the name of the market intermediary or the
registered person;
(b)  the business address of the market intermediary or
the registered person;
(c)  the type of licence held by the market intermediary
or the type of registration held by the registered
person;
(d)  the date the licence was granted to the market
intermediary or the date the registration was granted
to the registered person;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Internal
procedures
and
processes.
Register of
market
intermediaries
and
registered
persons.

<!-- page 113 -->

104 Securities Exchange
(e)  the names of registered persons acting for or
employed by the market intermediary; and
(f) any other matter that the Commission considers
appropriate.
(4) The Commission may make necessary amendments
in the register with respect to a market intermediary or a
registered person where the licence held by the market
intermediary is cancelled or suspended or where the
registration held by the registered person is cancelled or
suspended under this Act.
PART IV
TRADE IN UNLISTED SECURITIES
111. The object and purpose of this Part shall be –
(a) to provide a platform through a recognized
market operator for sale and purchase of
unlisted securities in Sri Lanka to local and
overseas investors in a transparent manner;
and
(b) to facilitate the disclosure of information
relating to unlisted securities to local and
overseas investors through a recognized
market operator in a transparent manner.
CHAPTER 1
Establishment of a Recognized Marker Operator
112. A person shall not operate as a market operator
under this Part unless such person is registered or exempted
from registration with the Commission.
5
10
15
20
25
Object and
purpose of
this Part.
Establishment
of a market
operator.

<!-- page 114 -->

Securities Exchange 105
113. (1) For the purposes of section 112, the Commission
may upon application made by a person, register the person
as a recognized market operator subject to any terms and
conditions as the Commission considers necessary.
(2) The Commission may, from time to time, vary, amend
or revoke any terms and conditions imposed under
subsection (1).
114. (1) An application to be registered as a recognized
market operator shall be accompanied by such documents
and information and in such manner as the Commission may
specify.
(2)  An application by such person for registration under
this section shall provide documents evidencing that such
person has experience in trades executed on a platform to
the satisfaction of the Commission.
(3) An application by such person for registration under
this Chapter shall provide documents evidencing that the
arrangements are made by such platform for the clearance
and settlement of the trades executed on the platform to the
satisfaction of the Commission.
CHAPTER 2
Role of a Recognized Marker Operator
115. The functions and duties of a recognized market
operator shall be -
(a) to provide a platform for the sale and purchase of
unlisted securities in Sri Lanka;
(b) to provide information relating to unlisted securities
in Sri Lanka to the local and international financial
community;
5
10
15
25
20
Requirement
to register a
market
operator.
Application
for
registration.
Functions
and duties of
a recognized
market
operator.

<!-- page 115 -->

106 Securities Exchange
(c) to provide criteria for admission and regulatory
standards of its trading members;
(d) to comply with any directive issued by the
Commission, whether of a general or specific nature;
and
(e) to provide such assistance to the Commission, or to
a person acting on behalf of or with the authority of
the Commission, as the Commission or such person
reasonably requires.
116.  Any person buying and selling securities on a
platform shall execute their orders through trading members
admitted by the platform.
117. The Commission shall make rules -
(a) to determine the type of unlisted securities
that can be traded on a platform;
(b) to determine the type of issuers who can report
trades to a platform;
(c) to determine the type of investors that may
trade on the platform;
(d) to determine the type of trading members that
may trade on the platform;
(e) for the admission of trading members on the
platform;
(f) to determine the level of disclosures required
to be made by the platform; and
(g) to determine the standard of business conduct
in the sale or purchase of unlisted securities.
5
10
15
20
25
Trading on a
platform.
Rules to be
made by the
Commission.

<!-- page 116 -->

Securities Exchange 107
118. (1) Subject to subsection (3), where the Commission
is satisfied that it is appropriate to do so in the interest of the
investors or for the maintenance of an orderly and fair market,
the Commission may, by notice in writing, withdraw the
registration with effect from a date that is specified in the
notice.
(2) Such notice referred to in subsection (1) shall state
the grounds for the withdrawal of the registration.
(3) Notwithstanding the withdrawal under subsection (1),
the Commission may permit the person to continue on or
after the date on which the withdrawal is to take effect, to
carry on such activities affected by the withdrawal as the
Commission may specify in the notice for the purpose of –
(a) closing down the operations of the recognized
market operator to which the withdrawal relates; or
 (b) protecting the interest of the investors.
(4) Where the Commission has granted permission to a
person under subsection (3), such person shall not, by reason
of its carrying on the activities in accordance with the
permission, be regarded as having contravened any
provision of this Act.
(5) The Commission shall not exercise its power under
subsection (1) in relation to a recognized market operator
unless it has given the recognized market operator an
opportunity to be heard.
(6) Any withdrawal of registration made under this
section shall not operate so as to –
(a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
arrangement entered into by the recognized market
operator whether the agreement, transaction or
arrangement was entered into before or after the
withdrawal of the registration under subsection (1);
or
5
10
15
20
25
Withdrawal
of
registration.
30

<!-- page 117 -->

108 Securities Exchange
(b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under
such agreement, transaction or arrangement.
119. (1) The Commission may from time to time review
the performance of a recognized market operator under this
Part.
(2)  The Commission may have regard to the following in
reviewing the status of the recognized market operator:-
(a) the systemic risk inherent in a platform;
(b) the public interest;
(c) the size and structure of the platform;
(d) the class of unlisted securities traded on the
platform; and
(e) the nature of the investors and the participants using
the platform.
(3) The Commission shall not exercise its powers under
subsection (1) without giving the recognized market operator
an opportunity to be heard.
120. The Commission may exempt a market operator
from registration under section 114 having regard to the
criteria specified under section 117 subject to such terms
and conditions as may be specified by the Commission.
121. (1) The provisions of this Act shall not apply to a
sale, purchase and transfer of unlisted securities taking into
consideration the criteria specified by subsection (3) of
section 75 established on a platform by a recognized market
operator and for securities exempted under subsection (4) of
section 75 as may be specified by way of rules published in
the Gazette.
5
10
15
20
25
Review of
the
performance
of a
recognized
market
operator.
Exemption
for Market
Operator.
Application
of the
provisions of
the Act to
unlisted
securities.

<!-- page 118 -->

Securities Exchange 109
(2) The rules relating to unlisted securities applicable to
this trading platform made by the Commission under this
Part shall prevail over any other rules relating to unlisted
securities.
PART V
MARKET MISCONDUCT
122. The object and purpose of this Part shall be –
(a) to prevent false trading, market rigging and
market manipulation with a view to
establishing a fair, orderly and transparent
securities market; and
(b) to prevent insider trading with a view to
establishing a fair, orderly and transparent
securities market.
123. This Part shall apply –
(a) in respect of securities-
(i) acts or omissions occurring within Sri
Lanka in relation to securities of any
corporate entity which is formed or is
carrying on business or is listed within
or outside Sri Lanka; and
(ii) acts or omissions occurring outside Sri
Lanka in relation to securities of any
corporate entity which is formed or is
carrying on business within Sri Lanka;
(b) in respect of derivatives-
(i) acts occurring within Sri Lanka in
relation to derivatives, whether traded
within or outside Sri Lanka; and
5
10
15
20
25
Object and
purpose of
this Part.
Application
of this Part.

<!-- page 119 -->

110 Securities Exchange
(ii) acts occurring outside Sri Lanka in
relation to derivatives traded within Sri
Lanka.
CHPTER 1
Prohibited Conduct
124. (1) Subject to section 129, a person shall not create
or cause to create or do anything that is intended to create a
false or misleading appearance of active trading in securities
on an exchange within Sri Lanka or a false or misleading
appearance with respect to the market for or the price of any
such securities.
(2) A person shall not, by means of any purchase or sale
of any security that does not involve a change in the
beneficial ownership of those securities, or by any fictitious
transaction or device, maintain, inflate, depress, or cause
fluctuations in the market price of any securities.
(3)  Without affecting the generality of subsection (1), a
person who –
(a) effects, takes part in, is concerned in or carries out,
either directly or indirectly, any transaction of sale
or purchase of any securities, being a transaction
that does not involve any change in the beneficial
ownership of the securities; or
(b) makes or causes to be made an offer to buy or sell
such number of securities at a specified price where
he has made or caused to be made or knows that a
person associated with him has made or caused to
be made an offer to purchase the same number or
substantially the same number, of securities at a
price that is substantially the same as the first
mentioned price,
shall be deemed to have created a false or misleading
appearance of active trading in securities on a stock market.
5
10
15
20
25
False trading
and market
rigging
transactions.
30

<!-- page 120 -->

Securities Exchange 111
(4) For the purposes of subsection (3), it is a defence for a
person to establish that–
(a) the purpose for which he did the act was not or did
not include, the purpose of creating a false or
misleading appearance of active trading in an
exchange; and
(b) he did not act recklessly, whether or not he created
a false or misleading appearance of active trading
in an exchange.
(5) For the purposes of this section, a purchase or sale of
securities does not involve a change in the beneficial
ownership, if a person or a person associated with such person
had an interest in the securities before the purchase or sale
and continues to have an interest in the securities after the
purchase or sale.
(6) In dealing with a contravention of subsection (2) in
relation to a purchase or sale of securities that did not involve
a change in the beneficial ownership of those securities, it is
a defence if the person establishes that the purpose or
purposes for which he purchased or sold the securities was
not, or did not include, the purpose of creating a false or
misleading appearance with respect to the market for or the
price of securities.
(7) The reference in paragraph ( a) of subsection (3) to a
transaction of sale or purchase of securities includes -
(a) the making of an offer to sell or purchase securities;
and
(b) the making of an invitation, that expressly or
impliedly invites a person to offer to sell or
purchase securities.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 121 -->

112 Securities Exchange
 125. (1) Subject to section 129, a person shall not carry
out or be involved in carrying out, either directly or
indirectly, any number of transactions in securities of a
company being transactions that have or are likely to have
the effect of artificially–
(a) raising;
(b) lowering; or
(c) pegging, fixing, maintaining or stabilizing,
the price or volume of securities of that company in Sri
Lanka, for the purpose of inducing other persons whether or
not such person is induced to acquire or dispose of the
securities of the company or of a related company.
(2) A reference in this section to a transaction in relation
to securities of a company includes–
(a) the making of an offer to sell or purchase such
securities of the company; and
(b) the making of an invitation, that expressly or
impliedly invites a person to offer to sell or
purchase such securities of the company.
126. A person shall not make a statement, or disseminate
information that is false or misleading in a material particular
and is likely to have the effect of raising, lowering,
maintaining or stabilizing the market price or volume of
securities, if –
(a) he does not take reasonable care to check the
accuracy of the statement or information; or
(b) he knows or could reasonably be expected to have
known that the statement or information is false or
misleading in a material particular.
5
10
15
20
25
Stock market
manipulations.
False or
misleading
statements.

<!-- page 122 -->

Securities Exchange 113
127. (1) A person shall not induce or attempt to induce
another person to trade in securities—
(a) by making or publishing any statement or by
making any forecast that he knows to be misleading,
false or deceptive;
(b) by any dishonest concealment of material facts;
(c) by the reckless making or publishing, dishonestly
or otherwise of any statement or forecast that is
misleading, false or deceptive; or
(d) by recording or storing in, or by means of, any
mechanical, electronic or other device, information
that he knows to be false or misleading in a material
particular.
(2) For the purposes of paragraph (d) of subsection (1), it
shall be a defence if the person referred to in paragraph (d) of
subsection (1) establishes that when the information was
recorded or stored, that such person had no reasonable
grounds for believing that the information would be available
to any person.
128. A person shall not directly or indirectly in
connection with the subscription, purchase or sale of any
securities –
(a) use any device, scheme or artifice to defraud;
(b) engage in any act, practice or course of business
which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit
upon any person; or
(c) make any false statement of a material fact or to
omit to state a material fact necessary in order to
make the statements.
5
10
15
20
25
Fraudulently
inducing
persons to
deal in
securities.
Use of
manipulative
and
deceptive
devices.

<!-- page 123 -->

114 Securities Exchange
129. The Commission may make rules to exempt any
particular class, category or description of persons or any
particular class, category or description of transactions
relating to securities to which section 124 or 125 does not
apply.
130. A person who contravenes section 124, 125, 126,
127 or 128 commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine of not less than ten million rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years  or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
CHAPTER 2
Insider Trading
131. In this Chapter, “information” includes –
(a) matters of supposition and other matters
relating to listed public companies that are
insufficiently definite to warrant being made
known to the public;
(b) matters relating to the intentions, or likely
intentions of a person;
(c) matters relating to negotiations or proposals
with respect to –
(i) commercial dealings; or
(ii) dealings in securities;
(d) information relating to the financial
performance of a company;
(e) information that a person proposes to enter
into or has previously entered into one or
more transactions or agreements in relation
5
10
15
20
25
Exempt
certain class
of
transactions.
Penalty for
offences.
Information.

<!-- page 124 -->

Securities Exchange 115
to securities or has prepared or proposes to
issue a statement relating to such securities;
and
(f) matters relating to the future.
132. (1) In this Chapter, information is generally
available if such information has been made known in a
manner that would or would tend to bring it to the attention
of reasonable persons who invest in securities whose price
or value might be affected by such information and a
reasonable period has lapsed in the dissemination of such
information for it to have been assimilated by any such
person.
(2) The information referred to in subsection (1) includes
information that consists of deductions or conclusions made
or drawn from such information.
133. In this Chapter, information on becoming generally
available would or would tend to have a material effect on
the price or value of securities refers to such information
which would or would tend to, on becoming generally
available influence reasonable persons who invest in
securities in deciding whether or not to acquire or dispose of
such securities or enter into an agreement with a view to
acquire or dispose of such securities.
134. For the purposes of section 135, a person is deemed
to procure an act or omission by another person if the first
named person induces, encourages or directs the said act or
omission by such other person.
135. (1) A person is an “insider”, whether such person
is connected to the respective company or not, if that person–
(a) possesses information that is not generally
available and if it were generally available a
reasonable person would expect it to have a material
effect on the price or the value of securities; and
5
10
15
20
25
30
Information
generally
available.
Material
effect on
price or
value of
securities.
Reference to
“procure”.
Prohibited
conduct of
person in
possession of
inside
information.

<!-- page 125 -->

116 Securities Exchange
(b) knows or could reasonably be expected to know
that the information is not generally available.
(2) An insider shall not whether as principal or agent in
respect of any securities to which information in subsection
(1) relates –
(a) acquire or dispose of or enter into an agreement for
or with a view to the acquisition or disposal of such
securities; or
(b) procure, directly or indirectly, an acquisition or
disposal of or the entering into an agreement for or
with a view to the acquisition or disposal of such
securities.
(3) Where trading in the securities to which the
information in subsection (1) relates is permitted on a
securities market of an exchange, the insider shall not directly
or indirectly, communicate the information referred to in
subsection (1) or cause such information to be communicated
to another person, if the insider knows or could reasonably
be expected to know that the other person would or would
tend to –
(a) acquire, dispose of or enter into an agreement with
a view to the acquisition or disposal of any securities
to which the information in subsection (1) relates;
or
(b) procure a third person to acquire, dispose of or enter
into an agreement with a view to the acquisition or
disposal of any securities to which the information
in subsection (1) relates.
(4) A person who contravenes subsections (2) or (3)
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine of not less than ten million rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding ten years  or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 126 -->

Securities Exchange 117
(5) The Commission may make rules in respect of any
particular class, category or description of persons
or any particular class, category or description of
transactions, relating to securities, to whom or which
this section does not apply.
136. (1) In this Chapter, a company is deemed to possess
any information-
(a) which an officer of the company-
(i) possesses and which came into his possession
in the course of his duties as an officer of the
company; or
(ii) knows or could reasonably be expected to
know because he is an officer of the company;
(b) which an officer of the company possesses and
which came into his possession in the course of his
duties as an officer of a related company of the first
mentioned company where-
(i) the officer is an insider by reason of being in
possession of the information;
(ii) the officer is involved in the decision,
transaction or agreement of the first mentioned
company in acquiring or disposing of
securities in relation to which the officer is
an insider or entering into an agreement to
acquire or dispose of such securities,
procuring another person to acquire or dispose
of such securities or enter into an agreement
to do so or communicating the information
in circumstances referred to in subsection (3)
of section 135; or
5
10
15
20
25
30
Information
in possession
of an officer
of a
company.

<!-- page 127 -->

118 Securities Exchange
(iii) it is reasonable to expect that the officer
would communicate the information to
another officer of the first mentioned
company acting in his capacity as such unless
it is proved that the information was not in
fact so communicated;
(2) In this section “information” refers to information
which a company is deemed to possess and “insider” means
a person in possession of such information.
(3) A company does not contravene subsection (2) of
section 135 by entering into a transaction or agreement at
any time merely because of information in the possession of
the company if-
(a) the decision to enter into the transaction or
agreement was taken on behalf of the company by
a person or persons other than an officer of the
company in possession of the information;
(b) the company had in operation at that time
arrangements that could reasonably be expected to
ensure that-
(i) the information was not communicated to a
person or one of the persons who was
involved in or made the decision to enter into
or be involved in the transaction or
agreement;
(ii) no advice with respect to the decision to enter
into or be involved in the transaction or
agreement was given to that person by the
person in possession of the information; or
(iii) the person in possession of the information
would not be involved in the decision to enter
into or be involved in the transaction or
agreement; and
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 128 -->

Securities Exchange 119
(c) the information was not communicated, no such
advice was given and the person in possession of
the information was not involved in the decision to
enter into or be involved in the transaction or
agreement.
137. (1) In this Chapter, a partner of a partnership is
deemed to possess any information –
(a) if a partner possesses information and it came into
another partner’s possession in his capacity as a
partner of the partnership;
(b) if an employee of the partnership possesses such
information and it came into the employee’s
possession in the course of his duties; or
(c) if a partner or an employee of a partnership knows
or could reasonably be expected to know any matter
or thing because of another partner or employee, it
is presumed, unless the contrary is proved that every
partner of the partnership knows or could reasonably
be expected to know that matter or thing.
(2) A partner of a partnership does not contravene
subsection (2) of section 135 by entering into a transaction
or agreement referred to in that subsection at any time merely
because one or more but not all of the partners, or an
employee or employees of the partnership were in actual
possession of information at the time if-
(a) the decision to enter into the transaction or
agreement was taken on behalf of the partnership
by any one or more of the following persons: -
(i) a partner who is taken to possess the
information merely because another partner
or an employee of the partnership was in
possession of the information; or
5
10
15
20
25
30
Information
in possession
of a partner
or an
employee of
partnership.

<!-- page 129 -->

120 Securities Exchange
(ii) an employee of the partnership who was not
in possession of the information;
(b) the partnership had in operation at that time
agreements that could reasonably be expected to
ensure that-
(i) the information was not communicated to a
partner or an employee or one of the partners
or employees who was or were involved in or
made the decision with respect to entering
into the transaction or agreement in question;
(ii) no advice with respect to the decision to enter
into the transaction or agreement was given
to that partner or employee by a partner or an
employee in possession of the information;
or
(iii)  the partner or employee in possession of the
information would not be involved in the
decision to enter into or be involved in the
transaction or agreement; and
(c) the information was not communicated, no advice
was given and the partner or employee in possession
of the information was not involved in the decision
to enter into or be involved in the transaction or
agreement.
(3) A partner of a partnership does not contravene
subsection (2) of section 135 by entering into the transaction
or agreement referred to in that subsection otherwise than
on behalf of the partnership merely because the partner is
deemed to possess information that is in possession of
another partner or employee of the partnership.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 130 -->

Securities Exchange 121
(4) In this section “information” refers to information
which a partnership is deemed to possess and where a partner
or an employee of the partnership in possession of that
information is an insider.
138. (1)    Subsection (2) of section 135 shall not apply
in respect of –
(a) the entering into of an underwriting agreement or a
sub underwriting agreement; or
(b) the acquisition of securities under an obligation to
do so in an agreement referred to in paragraph ( a).
(2) Subsection (3) of section 135 shall not apply in
respect of the communication of information in relation to
securities to a person solely for the purpose of procuring the
person–
(a) to enter into an underwriting agreement or a sub
underwriting agreement in relation to such
securities; or
 (b) to acquire such securities under an obligation to do
so in an agreement referred to in paragraph ( a).
139. (1) Section 135 shall not apply to an acquisition
or disposal of securities or the communication of information
that is carried out under any other written law relating to
schemes of arrangement, reconstructions and take over of
companies.
(2) Subsection (2) of section 135 shall not apply to a
clearing house which acquires or disposes of securities for
the purpose of settlement of a market contract or in relation
to any proceedings or other action relating to the settlement
of a market contract where the acquisition or disposal of
securities is made in accordance with the rules of a clearing
house.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Exceptions in
relation to
underwriting
and sub
underwriting.
Exceptions in
relation to
schemes of
arrangement.

<!-- page 131 -->

122 Securities Exchange
(3) Subsection (2) of section 135 shall not apply to an
exchange in relation to a sale or purchase of securities where
the exchange acts on an instruction from a clearing house.
140. (1) A company does not contravene subsection
(2) of section 135 by entering into a transaction or an
agreement in relation to securities other than those of the
company merely because the company is aware that it
proposes to enter into or has previously entered into one or
more transactions or agreements in relation to those securities.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), a company does not
contravene subsection (2) of section 135 by entering into a
transaction or an agreement in relation to securities other
than those of the company because an officer of the company
is aware that it proposes to enter into or has previously entered
into one or more transactions or agreements in relation to
those securities.
(3) Subsection (2) shall not apply unless the officer of
the company became aware of the matter referred to in that
subsection in the course of his duties.
(4) Subject to subsection (5) a person does not
contravene subsection (2) of section 135 by entering into a
transaction or an agreement on behalf of a company in relation
to securities other than those of the company merely because
the person is aware that the company proposes to enter into
or has previously entered into one or more transactions or
agreements in relation to those securities.
(5) Subsection (4) shall not apply unless the person
became aware of the matters referred to in the course of his
duties as an officer of the first mentioned company or in the
course of acting as an agent of the first mentioned company.
141. An individual does not contravene subsection (2)
of section 135 by entering into a transaction or an agreement
in relation to securities merely because he is aware that he
proposes to enter into or has previously entered into one or
more transactions or agreements in relation to those securities.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Exception
for a
company
with
knowledge
of its
intention.
Exception in
relation to an
individual.

<!-- page 132 -->

Securities Exchange 123
142. (1) A market intermediary who carries on the
business of buying and selling of securities on behalf of
investors or its representative shall not contravene
subsection (2) of section 135 by entering into a transaction
or an agreement as an agent for another person, being a
transaction or an agreement entered into on the securities
market of an exchange if –
(a) the transaction or agreement is entered into under a
specific instruction by the other person and was
not solicited by a market intermediary carrying on
the business of buying and selling securities or its
representative;
(b) the market intermediary carrying on the business
of buying and selling securities or its representative
has not given any advice to the other person in
relation to the transaction or agreement or otherwise
sought to procure the other person’s instructions to
enter into the transaction or agreement; and
(c) the other person is not associated with the market
intermediary carrying on the business of buying
and selling securities or its representatives.
(2) Nothing in this section shall affect the responsibility
of the market intermediary in relation to subsection (1) of
this section with respect to the business of buying and selling
of securities in his capacity as the principal.
143. Subsection (2) of section 135 shall not apply in
respect of the redemption by a trustee under a trust deed
relating to a collective investment scheme in accordance
with a buyback covenant contained or deemed to be
contained in the trust deed at a price that is required by the
trust deed to be calculated, so far as is reasonably practicable,
by reference to the underlying value of the assets less any
liabilities of the collective investment scheme to which the
units of the collective investment scheme relates and less
any reasonable charge for purchasing the units of the
collective investment scheme.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Unsolicited
transaction
by market
intermediaries.
Exception in
relation to
collective
investment
schemes.

<!-- page 133 -->

124 Securities Exchange
144. (1) A person does not contravene subsection (2) of
section 135 if –
(a) the other party to the transaction or agreement knew,
or could reasonably have known, of the information
before entering into the transaction or agreement;
and
(b) that person acquires or disposes of such securities
on such terms and in such circumstances, that –
(i) he does not obtain any gain or avoid any
loss, including an unrealized gain or
unrealized avoidance of loss in price or value
of the securities, as the case may be, for himself
or any other person by reason of the effect
that the information is likely to have when it
becomes generally available; and
(ii) the purpose of the acquisition or disposal of
the securities does not include any purpose
of securing a gain or avoiding a loss, as the
case may be, for himself or any other person
by reason of the effect that the information is
likely to have when it becomes generally
available.
(2) A contravention of subsection (3) of section 135 where
the person communicated information or caused information
to be communicated to another person, it shall be a defence-
(a) if the information came into the possession of the
person so communicating the information solely
as a result of it being made known in a manner
likely to make it generally available pursuant to
section 132; or
(b) if the other party knew or could reasonably be
expected to have known the information before the
information was communicated.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Parity of
information
defence.

<!-- page 134 -->

Securities Exchange 125
145. In a prosecution or civil enforcement action by
the Commission against any person for an offence under
section 135, it is not necessary for the prosecution or the
Commission to prove the non-existence of facts or
circumstances which, if existed would by virtue of sections
136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143 and 144 or any rules
made under subsection (5) of section 135 preclude the act
from constituting a contravention of subsections (2) and (3)
of section 135.
146. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978, every offence committed under
this Part shall be triable by the High Court sitting in any
judicial zone of Sri Lanka and shall have jurisdiction to
impose the maximum penalty provided by this Act.
147. Every prosecution in respect of an offence under
this Part of this Act shall be conducted by the Attorney
General or by any other officer specially authorized in writing
by the Attorney General.
148. (1) A person who suffers loss or damage by reason
of or by relying on the conduct of another person who has
contravened sections 124, 125, 126, 127, 128 or 135 may
recover the amount of loss or damage by instituting civil
proceedings against the other person whether or not the other
person has been charged with an offence in respect of the
contravention or whether or not a contravention has been
proved in a prosecution.
(2) This section shall not affect any liability under any
other law in respect of the conduct constituting the
contravention.
149. (1) Where it appears to the Commission that any
person has contravened sections 124, 125, 126, 127 and
128, the Commission may institute civil proceedings in the
5
10
15
20
25
30
Prosecution
need not
disprove the
defences.
Jurisdiction
of the Courts.
Who may
prosecute.
Civil liability
for
contravention
of certain
sections.
Civil action
by the
Commission.

<!-- page 135 -->

126 Securities Exchange
Court against that person to seek an order for a civil penalty,
in respect of the contravention where it considers it necessary
in the public interest-
(a) to recover an amount which shall not exceed three
times the gross amount of pecuniary gain made or
loss avoided by such person; or
(b) in an amount not less than ten million rupees and
not exceeding hundred million rupees as Court
considers appropriate having regard to the severity
or gravity of the contravention.
(2) An amount recovered by the Commission in an action
under subsection (1) shall be applied -
(a) to reimburse the Commission for all costs of the
investigation and proceedings in respect of the
contravention; and
(b) to compensate persons who have suffered loss or
damage as a result of the contravention.
 (3) If the Commission considers that it is not practicable
to compensate the persons referred to in paragraph ( b) of
subsection (2) in view of the amount of any potential
distribution to each person or the difficulty of ascertaining
or notifying the persons whom it is appropriate to
compensate, as the case may be, the Commission may decide
not to distribute to the persons referred to in paragraph (b) of
subsection (2) and credit such sums to the Fund of the
Commission.
(4) The Commission may in the public interest take   all
or any of the following actions against an insider, if such
insider has acquired or agreed to acquire securities or
procured another person to acquire or agree to acquire
securities in contravention of subsection (2)  of section 135
or such insider communicated information referred to in
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 136 -->

Securities Exchange 127
subsection (1)  of section 135  to another person, in
contravention of subsection (3)  of section 135  and such
securities were permitted to be traded on an  exchange, to
seek an order for a civil penalty in respect of the
contravention-
(a) to recover an amount equal to three times the
amount being the difference between the price at
which the securities were acquired or agreed to be
acquired by the insider or the other person and the
price at which they would likely to have been
acquired at the time of the acquisition or agreement
as the case may be if the information had been
generally available; or
(b) in an amount and not more than hundred million
rupees as the Court considers appropriate having
regard to the seriousness of the contravention.
(5)  The Commission may in the public interest take all or
any of the following actions against the insider, if such
insider has disposed of or agreed to dispose of securities or
procured another person to dispose of or agree to dispose of
securities in contravention of subsection (2) of section 135
or an insider communicated information referred to in
subsection (1) of section 135  to another person in
contravention of subsection (3) of section 135 , and such
securities were permitted to be traded on an exchange to
seek an order for a civil penalty in respect of the
contravention-
(a) to recover an amount equal to three times the
amount being the difference between the price at
which the securities were disposed of, or agreed to
be disposed of by the insider or the other person
and the price at which they would likely to have
been disposed of at the time of the disposal or
agreement, as the case may be, if the information
had been generally available; or
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 137 -->

128 Securities Exchange
(b) in an amount not more than hundred million rupees
as the Court considers appropriate having regard to
the seriousness of the contravention.
(6) ( a) Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the Commission from entering into an agreement
with any person on the basis of an admission of liability to
pay an amount not exceeding three times the gross amount
of the pecuniary gain made or loss avoided calculated for
each offence on the basis provided for under this section for
a contravention of any provision of this Part; and
(b) if the parties fail to enter into an agreement or fail to
perform the obligations under the agreement, any admission
of liability referred to in paragraph ( a) above shall not be
admissible in a subsequent action instituted in a court of
law by the Commission.
(7) Subsections (2) and (3) shall mutatis mutandis apply
in relation to sums of money recovered by the Commission
under subsections (4), (5) and (6) of this section.
(8) Any right of action that is conferred under this section
shall not affect the right of action that is conferred on a
person who has suffered loss or damage referred to in any
other section of this Act or under any other law.
PART VI
FINANCE
150. The object and purpose of this Part shall be –
(a)  to establish various funds for the proper
functioning of the Commission; and
(b)  to establish a fund to provide limited
compensation to investors who have no other
remedy.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Object and
purpose of
this Part.

<!-- page 138 -->

Securities Exchange 129
CHAPTER 1
Funds of the Commission
151. (1) There shall be charged, levied and paid a cess
at such rates as may be prescribed by the Minister by way of
regulations published in the Gazette on every purchase and
sale of securities recorded in 
an exchange or notified to it
under its rules by both the purchaser and the seller. Different
rates may be prescribed in respect of different classes of
securities.
(2)  The cess imposed under this section shall be in
addition to any other tax or cess levied under any other law.
152. (1) There shall be established a fund called the
Cess Fund to which shall be credited the proceeds of the
cess imposed under section 151.
(2)  There shall be paid out of the Cess Fund such sums as
may be authorized by the Commission for the purpose of –
(a) developing the securities market;
(b) enhancing monies lying to the credit of the
Compensation Fund or the Fund of the Commission
established under this Part; and
(c) exercising, performing and discharging the powers,
duties and functions of the Commission for the
purpose of achieving its objectives.
(3)  The money lying to the credit of the Cess Fund may
be invested by the 
Commission in such manner as may be
determined by the Commission for the purpose of conserving
the Cess Fund.
5
10
15
20
25
Levy of a
Cess.
Cess Fund.

<!-- page 139 -->

130 Securities Exchange
153. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund.
(2)   There shall be paid into the Fund –
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted upon
from time to time by Parliament for the use of
the Commission;
(b) all sums of money as may be charged as costs
incurred in carrying out all inspections under
the provisions of this Act or paid as fees under
the provisions of this Act;
(c) such sums of money as may be credited to the
Fund under the provisions of this Act;
(d) all such sums of money as may be received
by the Commission by way of donations, gifts
or grants from any source whatsoever, whether
within or outside Sri Lanka; and
(e) such sums of money as may be credited from
the Cess Fund.
(3)  There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money required to defray the expenditure incurred by the
Commission in the exercise, discharge and performance of
its powers, functions and duties.
(4)  Monies belonging to the Fund of the Commission
may be invested by the Commission in such manner as may
be determined by the Commission.
154. The financial year of the Commission shall be the
period of twelve months commencing on the first day of
January each year.
5
10
15
20
25
Fund of the
Commission.
Financial
Year.

<!-- page 140 -->

Securities Exchange 131
155. (1) The Commission shall cause proper books of
accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets
and liabilities and all other transactions of the Commission.
(2)  The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Commission.
CHAPTER 2
Fund to provide Compensation to Investors
156. (1) There shall be established a fund called the
Compensation Fund, for the purpose of granting limited
compensation to any investor who suffers pecuniary loss as
a result of any fraudulent or negligent act of a market
intermediary if the investor has no other remedy.
(2)  The Compensation Fund shall consist of -
(a) such sums of money as may be voted upon
by Parliament;
(b) such sums of money as may be credited to the
fund under the provisions of this Act; and
(c) such sums of money as may be credited from
the Cess Fund as approved by the
Commission.
(3)  Monies belonging to the Compensation Fund may be
invested by the Commission in such manner as may be
determined by the Commission.
157. (1) The Commission shall appoint from among
the members of the Commission, three members who shall
comprise the Compensation Committee (hereinafter referred
to as the “Committee”) of the Commission.
5
10
15
20
25
Audit of
Accounts.
Compensation
Fund.
Appointment
of
Compensation
Committee.

<!-- page 141 -->

132 Securities Exchange
(2) The Committee appointed under subsection (1) shall
be responsible for assessing and awarding compensation in
respect of any application made under section 158 and the
decision of such Committee on any such assessment or award
shall be final and conclusive for the purpose of this Act.
158. (1) Any investor who has suffered pecuniary loss
as a result of any market intermediary being found incapable
of meeting his contractual obligation towards such investor
may make an application to the Committee in the specified
form claiming compensation from the Compensation Fund.
(2)  The Committee may from time to time, require an
applicant to produce any document or other evidence in
support of his claim for compensation.  Where the applicant
fails to comply with such request, the Committee may
disallow his claim.
(3)  If at any time the Committee considers it necessary so
to do, it may hold an inquiry into the claim of the applicant
and shall by notice in writing, inform the applicant to be
present on such date, and at such time and place as may be
specified in the notice.  Where the applicant fails to appear
for such inquiry on the date set out in the notice, the
Committee may disallow his claim.
159. (1) The Committee may, after examination of the
documents and other evidence produced in support of the
claim by an applicant or in any case where an inquiry was
held on the conclusion of such inquiry allow or disallow
such claim for compensation.
(2) Where the Committee allows any claim it shall make
an assessment of the limited compensation payable and shall
make an award in relation thereto. Notice of such award
shall be given in writing to the applicant.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Application
for
Compensation.
Payment of
compensation.

<!-- page 142 -->

Securities Exchange 133
PART VII
GENERAL
     160. The object and purpose of this Part shall be -
(a) to ensure effective implementation of
provisions in this Act relating to production
of documents, disclosure of information,
establishment of a Complaints Management
Committee, conducting inquiries and
investigations, sharing of information,
protection of whistleblowers and the recovery
of damages by the Commission on behalf of
the investors; and
(b) to ensure efficient implementation and
enforcement of the provisions of this Act.
CHAPTER 1
Provisions Relating to the Institutional Framework
161. (1) The Commission or a person authorized by the
Commission may by notice in writing require any person
within such period as specified in the notice to furnish any
information or produce any document or electronic record
(other than any information or document which is prohibited
from being disclosed or produced under any law which
provides for the imposition and recovery of any tax) as
specified in such notice and as the Commission may consider
necessary for the proper exercise of its powers or the discharge
of its functions under this Act.
(2) It shall be the duty of any person who receives a
notice under subsection (1) to comply with the requirements
of such notice within the period specified therein and where
in compliance with such notice such person discloses any
information or produces any document or electronic record
5
10
15
20
25
30
Object and
purpose of
this Part.
Production
of documents
and
disclosure of
information.

<!-- page 143 -->

134 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
which he is prohibited from doing under any law, such
disclosure or production shall notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in such law not be deemed to be a contravention
of the provisions of such law.
(3) Any information furnished or the contents of a
document or an electronic record produced in compliance
with a notice issued under this section shall not be published
or communicated by the Commission to any other person
except –
(a)  in accordance with the provisions of this Act;
(b)  in a court proceeding where the Commission is a
party;
(c)  in the course of the discharge of the functions of
the Commission; or
(d)  with the consent of the person furnishing such
information, document or electronic record.
(4)  The consent under paragraph (d) of subsection (3) is
not required when the person furnishing the information,
document or electronic record is being investigated by the
Commission for a breach of any provision of this Act or any
regulation, rule or directive made thereunder.
 162. (1) The Commission or any person duly authorized
by the Commission,  may carry out investigations or hold
inquiries as it may consider necessary or expedient for the
exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, duties
and functions of the Commission under this Act and for
such purpose, summon and call upon any person to appear
before it or him to give evidence or to produce any books or
documents in the possession or control of such person as are
25
Inquiries and
investigations.

<!-- page 144 -->

Securities Exchange 135
5
10
15
20
25
required for the purpose of such investigation or inquiry,
where the Commission has reasonable grounds to believe
that—
(a) the transactions in securities are being dealt with in
a manner detrimental to investors or the securities
market by any person; or
(b) any market institution, market intermediary,
investor or any other person has violated any of the
provisions of this Act, regulations or the rules made
thereunder or the directives issued by the
Commission.
 (2) Any person summoned or called upon to appear before
the Commission or any person duly authorized by the
Commission under subsection (1) may be examined orally
and any statement made by the person so examined may be
reduced to writing.   Every such statement reduced to writing
shall be signed by the person so examined provided that
prior to signing the same, such statement shall be read to
such person or if he does not understand the language in
which it is written it shall be interpreted to him in a language
he understands and he shall be at liberty to explain or add to
such statement.
(3)  Every person who fails to appear before the
Commission or the person authorized, when required to do
so under subsection (1) or who refuses to answer any question
put to him by the Commission or a person duly authorized
by the Commission or who refuses to produce or taking of
copies of any book , document or electronic record in his
possession or control when required to do so or knowingly
gives any false answer to any question put to him by the
Commission or a person duly authorized by the Commission
shall be guilty of an offence.
(4) For the purpose of carrying out an investigation or
inquiry under subsection (1), the Commission may authorize
30

<!-- page 145 -->

136 Securities Exchange
5
10
15
20
in writing any officer and any expert recognized under the
Computer Crimes Act, No. 24 of 2007, as may be required to
enter at all reasonable hours of the day any premises of a
market institution or market intermediary  or listed public
company to inspect and take copies of any document or
electronic record required to be kept under this Act or under
any regulation or rule or directive made thereunder or any
other law in respect of such business and where the
Commission has reasonable grounds to believe that such
information may be required in discharging its duties under
the Act, to access their computer systems to collect evidence.
(5) Every authorized officer under subsection (1) shall be
deemed to be a peace officer within the meaning and for the
purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979.
(6) The provisions of the Computer Crimes Act, No. 24 of
2007 shall mutatis mutandis  apply in carrying out an
investigation or inquiry under subsection (4) or any other section
(4) in this Act relating to electronic records or documents.
163. (1) On reasonable suspicion of a contravention of
any provision of this Act, regulations, rules or directives
made thereunder, the Commission  may, at any time where a
person is being investigated or an inquiry is being carried
out in terms of section 162,  issue a directive (hereinafter
referred to as a “freezing order”)-
(a) prohibiting a person from disposing assets of such
person or any part thereof;
(b) prohibiting a person from entering into any
transaction or a class of transactions as may be
determined by the Commission; or
(c) prohibiting a person from soliciting funds from the
public.
25
30
Issue of
freezing
orders.

<!-- page 146 -->

Securities Exchange 137
(2) A freezing order made under subsection (1) shall not
be in force for a period exceeding seven market days from
the date of issue of such order.
(3) The Commission after issuing a freezing order under
subsection (1) shall within the period during which the
freezing order is in force, make an application to Court
seeking confirmation of such freezing order and also if
circumstances so necessitates, request an extension thereto
as required after giving the aggrieved person an opportunity
to be heard.
(4) Where the Court is satisfied that there are sufficient
reasons for issuance of such freezing order, the Court may
confirm the freezing order and if it is satisfied that there are
sufficient reasons for extension thereof may, grant extensions
for such periods as it considers appropriate.
(5) On an application made by the Commission to Court
in terms of subsection (3), the Court shall make an appropriate
order in respect of the management of the asset under a
freezing order.
164. (1) The Commission may establish a Complaints
Management Committee to hear and determine complaints
by any person relating to the professional misconduct or the
breach of any provision of this Act, regulations, rules made
thereunder or the directives issued by the Commission to a
market institution, market intermediary, listed public
company or a registered person.
(2) The Commission or any person duly authorized by
the Commission may hold such inquiries as it or he may
consider necessary or expedient for the exercise, performance
and discharge of the powers, duties and functions of the
Commission under this Act and for such purpose summon
and call upon any person to appear before the Committee to
give evidence or to produce any books or documents in the
possession or control of such person as are required for the
purpose of such inquiry.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Inquiry by
Complaints
Management
Committee.
35

<!-- page 147 -->

138 Securities Exchange
(3) The Commission shall establish appropriate processes
and procedures for handling complaints, determination of
complaints and all matters related thereto by way of rules.
(4) The Complaints Management Committee may on
receipt of any written complaint made by a person, examine
the evidence produced and determine whether any provision
of this Act, regulations, rules or directives made thereunder
or any rules of a market institution has been contravened.
(5) The Complaints Management Committee shall not
make any determination without affording such market
institution, market intermediary, listed public company or
registered person an opportunity of being heard.
(6) Where the Complaints Management Committee
determines that a market institution, market intermediary,
listed public company or registered person has contravened
a provision under this Act, regulation, rule or directive issued
thereunder or rules of a market institution, the Commission
shall have the discretion to either take appropriate action to
give effect to such recommendations or to refer the matter
for further investigation to the appropriate authority.
(7) A party aggrieved by the decision of the Complaints
Management Committee may appeal to the Commission for
review of the decision.
165. (1) The Commission shall be entitled to seek
information, clarification or explanation from supplementary
service providers in relation to professional services carried
out in respect of a market institution, market intermediary or
listed public company.
(2) Where the Commission is of the view that the services
rendered to a market institution, market intermediary or listed
public company causes or is likely to cause harm to the
interest of investors, the Commission may issue a directive
to such supplementary service provider to take corrective
action as may be determined by the Commission.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Supplementary
service
providers.

<!-- page 148 -->

Securities Exchange 139
(3) The Commission may make guidelines or rules to
provide for the duties and obligations of supplementary
service providers where it considers necessary.
166. The Commission may enter into agreements or
memoranda of understanding with such other organizations
in connection with the sharing of information on regulatory
functions relating to securities and investors in securities
markets.
167. (1) The Commission may on its own initiative or
at the request of a public officer or by a police officer by way
of an order issued by a competent court of law -
(a) allow a police officer or any public officer to have
access to and inspect any property, book, document,
article, thing or electronic record or otherwise in
any form whatsoever which have been produced
before, seized, detained or taken possession of by
an investigating officer under this Act; or
(b) provide to a police officer or any public officer a
copy of any book, document or electronic record or
otherwise in any form whatsoever seized, detained
or taken possession of by an investigating officer
or by any officer of the Commission in the course
of any inspection carried out by the Commission in
the exercise of his powers or in the discharge of his
duties in respect of any person.
(2)  The Commission may, where it deems necessary, enter
into regulatory arrangements to cooperate with any domestic
or foreign supervisory authority which may include –
(a) obtaining any information or document or
electronic record from any domestic or foreign
supervisory authority; and
(b) share any information or document or electronic
record with any domestic or foreign supervisory
authority.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Implementation
of
agreements
or MOUs.
Sharing of
information
and
cooperation.

<!-- page 149 -->

140 Securities Exchange
(3)  The Commission may, upon receiving a written
request from a foreign supervisory authority for assistance
to investigate into an alleged breach of a legal or regulatory
requirement which the foreign supervisory authority enforces
or administers, provide assistance to the foreign supervisory
authority by carrying out investigation of the alleged breach
or provide such assistance to the foreign supervisory
authority as the Commission thinks fit for the purpose.
 (4)  In determining whether it is in the public interest to
render assistance under subsection (3), the Commission shall
have regard to—
(a) whether the foreign supervisory authority shall pay
the Commission any cost and expenses incurred
for providing the foreign supervisory authority with
the assistance; and
(b) whether the foreign supervisory authority shall be
able and willing to provide reciprocal assistance in
response to a comparable request for assistance from
the Commission.
(5) In this section –
“domestic supervisory authority” means the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka established under the
Monetary Law Act, No. 58 of 1949, Registrar of
Companies appointed under the Companies Act,
No. 7 of 2007, the Police and any other
regulatory authority;
“foreign supervisory authority” means a foreign
authority which exercises functions
corresponding to the functions of the
Commission under this Act or any person or
international organization outside Sri Lanka
exercising regulatory functions and in respect
of which the Commission considers desirable
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 150 -->

Securities Exchange 141
and necessary in the interest of the public to
enter into such arrangement or to render such
assistance; and
“Public Officer” shall have the meaning assigned to
that expression by Article 170 of the
Constitution.
168. (1) An employer shall not discharge, terminate,
demote or cause harassment to a person in employment who
provides informationto the Commission concerning
violations or potential violations of this Act, regulations,
rules or directives made thereunder or any rule of a market
institution.
(2)  Any employer who retaliates against such person that
provides or has provided information to the Commission or
to any officer authorized by the Commission under
subsection (1) may be subjected to administrative penalty,
after giving such person an opportunity to be heard.
(3)  For the purposes of this section, a “person in
employment” includes a director, partner, chief executive
officer, chief financial officer, company secretary, internal
auditor or any other employee.
(4)  The Commission may grant a reward to a
whistleblower that provides information which leads to a
successful enforcement action on the basis of guidelines
issued relating to the grant of such reward.
169. The Minister may, from time to time, request in
writing from the Commission to furnish to him in such form
as he may require returns, accounts and other information
with respect to the work of the Commission other than
information deemed confidential by the Commission and
the Commission shall furnish such information.
5
10
15
20
25
Whistleblower
protection.
Furnishing of
information
to the
Minister.
30

<!-- page 151 -->

142 Securities Exchange
170. (1) No suit or prosecution shall be instituted against
any member of the Commission or against any of the officers
of the Commission for any acts done or purported to be done
or omitted to be done in good faith under this Act or on the
direction of the Commission.
(2) 
Any expense incurred by the Commission in any suit
or prosecution brought by or against it before any court
shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission and any
cost paid to or recovered by the Commission in any such
suit or prosecution shall be credited to such Fund of the
Commission.
(3)  Any expenses incurred by any such person as is
referred to in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution
brought against him before any court in respect of any act
which is done or purported to be done by him under this Act
or on the direction of the Commission shall, if the court
holds that such act was done in good faith be paid out of the
Fund of the Commission unless such expenses are recovered
by him in such suit or prosecution.
CHAPTER 2
Provisions Relating to the Enforcement Mechanism
171. (1) Any person who—
(a) contravenes any provision of this Act or
any requirement imposed under the
provisions of this Act or any regulations
or rules or directives made thereunder;
(b) furnishes or produces, for the purposes of
this Act or any requirement imposed under
the provisions of this Act or any
regulation, or any rule or directive made
thereunder, any information or any return,
document or electronic record or
5
10
15
25
20
30
Protection
for action
taken under
the Act.
Offences.

<!-- page 152 -->

Securities Exchange 143
statement, the contents of which are, to
his knowledge, untrue, incorrect or
misleading;
(c) willfully obstructs any member of the
Commission or an officer of the
Commission or any person with whom the
Commission has entered into an agreement
in the performance of his duties under the
provisions of this Act;
(d) in any manner falsify any information or
electronic record or  store any misleading
or false information in any books or
electronic record in relation to the business
of a market institution, market intermediary
or a listed public company or any of its
related companies; or
(e) destroys, conceals, mutilates, alters, sends
or attempts to send or conspires with any
other person to remove from its premises
or send out of Sri Lanka any book,
document or electronic record or accounts
required to be kept or maintained under
this Act, regulations, rules or directives
made thereunder with intent to defraud any
person, or to prevent, delay or obstruct the
exercise of any power under this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence as provided in the subsequent
subsections of this section.
(2)  Any person who is found guilty of an offence under
this Act for which no penalty is expressly provided for under
this Act, shall be liable on conviction after summary trial by
a Magistrate to a fine not less than ten million rupees and
not exceeding one hundred million rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
ten years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 153 -->

144 Securities Exchange
(3) Where any offence under this Act is committed by a
body corporate, any person who is at the time of the
commission of the offence, a director, manager or other
similar officer of the body corporate shall be deemed to be
guilty of that offence unless he proves  that such offence was
committed without his knowledge or connivance or that he
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of
that offence as he ought to have exercised having regard to
the nature of his functions and all the circumstances of the
case.
(4) Where a person who is an employee or acting on
behalf of a body corporate contravenes any provision of this
Act, or any regulation, rule or directive made thereunder,
the body corporate or on whose behalf the employee is acting
shall be deemed to have contravened such provision unless
the body corporate proves that such offence was committed
without its knowledge or connivance or that it exercised all
due  diligence to prevent the commission of that offence as
it ought to have exercised having regard to the circumstances
of the case.
(5) In any legal or administrative proceedings instituted
under this Act in respect of any contravention of any
provision of this Act, regulation, rule or directive by any
person, due regard shall be had to any other legal or
administrative proceeding instituted in respect of such
contravention and any sanction imposed thereunder against
such person.
172. (1) The Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of
1979 shall be applicable in respect of all prosecutions made
under this Act.
 (2)  The provisions of the Electronic Transactions Act,
No. 19 of 2006 shall apply to and in relation to the
admissibility of evidence of electronic records or other
documents.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Acts
applicable to
the criminal
process.

<!-- page 154 -->

Securities Exchange 145
173. Other than offences listed in Part V of this Act, the
Commission may having regard to the circumstances in
which the offence under this Act was committed, compound
such offence for a sum of money not exceeding 
one half of
the maximum fine imposable for such offence and all such
sums of money received by the Commission in the
compounding of an offence under this section shall be
credited to the Fund of the Commission.
174. (1) The Commission may enter into an enforceable
settlement agreement with any person with respect to any
undertaking between the parties with a view to ensuring
compliance with the provisions of this Act, regulations, rules
or directives issued thereunder except for offences listed in
Part V of this Act, in pursuance of its objectives.
(2) The person referred to in subsection (1) may withdraw
or vary the terms of the settlement agreement anytime with
the consent of the Commission.
 (3) If the Commission considers that the person referred
to in subsection (1) has breached any term of the settlement
agreement, the Commission may apply to Court for an order
under subsection (4).
(4) If the Court is satisfied that the person referred to in
subsection (1) has breached a term of the settlement
agreement the Court may issue-
(a) an order directing such person to comply with that
term of the settlement agreement;
(b) an order directing such person to pay to any person
or to the Commission an amount up to any financial
benefit that the person has obtained directly or
indirectly and that is reasonably attributable to the
breach;
5
10
15
20
25
Compounding
of offences.
Power of the
Commission
to impose
administrative
sanctions.
30

<!-- page 155 -->

146 Securities Exchange
(c) any order that the Court considers appropriate
directing such person to compensate any other
person who has suffered loss or damage as a result
of the breach; or
(d) any other order that the Court considers appropriate.
(5) Except in relation to offences listed in Part V if any
person contravenes a provision of this Act or regulations
made thereunder or contravenes or fails to comply with any
condition or restriction of a licence or registration granted
under this Act or fails to comply with any provision of the
rules of a market institution, any written notice, guideline,
directive issued or condition imposed by the Commission
or any rule issued by the Commission, the Commission may
impose administrative penalties or may take the following
administrative actions:–
(a) direct the person in breach to comply, observe,
enforce or give effect to such provisions,
regulations, rules, written notice, condition,
directive or guideline;
(b) impose a penalty in proportion to the severity or
gravity of the breach on the person in breach but in
any event not exceeding fifty million rupees;
(c) reprimand the person in breach;
(d) require the person in breach to take such steps as
the Commission may direct to remedy the breach
or to mitigate the effect of such breach, including
making restitution to any other person aggrieved
by such breach;
(e) in the case of a promoter or a director of a listed
public company, in addition to the actions that may
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 156 -->

Securities Exchange 147
be taken under paragraphs ( a) to ( d) above, the
following actions may be taken by the Commission–
(i) impose a moratorium on or prohibit any
trading of or any dealing in, the listed public
company’s securities or in any other
securities which the Commission thinks fit,
by the promoter or director or any person
connected with the promoter or director; or
(ii) issue a public statement to the effect that, in
the Commission’s opinion, the retention of
office by the director is prejudicial to the
public interest.
(6) The Commission shall not take any action under
subsection (5) without giving the person in breach an
opportunity to be heard.
(7) For the purposes of paragraph (d) of subsection (5) in
determining whether or not restitution is to be made by a
person in breach, the Commission shall have regard to–
(a) the profits that have accrued to such person in
breach; or
(b) whether one or more persons have suffered loss or
been otherwise adversely affected as a result of the
breach.
(8)  Where the Commission takes an action under
subsection (5) against any person under the rules of a market
institution the Commission shall notify the market
institution of the action taken by the Commission.
(9)  Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission
from—
(a) directing a market institution to take any
disciplinary action against its trading participants,
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 157 -->

148 Securities Exchange
clearing members or depository participants, a listed
public company and a director of a listed public
company for breach of the rules of the market
institution including the imposition of a fine; or
(b) taking any action that it is empowered to take under
this Act against the person in breach.
(10)  Where a person has failed to pay a penalty imposed
by the Commission under subsection (5), such person shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act and the sum of money
due as penalty may, on application being made by the
Commission to the Magistrate’s Court, be recovered in like
manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstanding
that such sum may exceed the amount of a fine which that
court may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction impose.
(11)  Without prejudice to any other remedy, where a
directive under subsection (5) had required the person in
breach to make restitution in the form of monetary payment
and the person in breach fails to restitute, the Commission
may sue for and recover the restitution as a civil debt due to
the persons aggrieved by the breach.
(12)  To the extent that any of the amounts obtained
under subsection (5) or subsection (11) has not been
distributed due to the difficulty of ascertaining or notifying
the aggrieved persons, such amount shall be—
(a) paid to the Fund of the Commission maintained
under Part VI; or
(b) retained by the Commission to defray the costs of
regulating the securities market as the Commission
may determine.
175. (1)  The Commission may take one or more of the
following actions outlined hereinbelow where a market
intermediary who handles or is entrusted with monies of clients
or assets in the course of his business contravenes  any
5
10
15
20
25
30 Power of the
Commission
to protect
investors’
assets.

<!-- page 158 -->

Securities Exchange 149
provision of this Act, regulation rule or directive issued
thereunder or is no longer fit and proper and the Commission
is of the view that interests of investors, the clients of a
market intermediary or unit holders of collective investment
schemes are likely to be jeopardized, or are  jeopardized—
(i) direct the market intermediary not to deal with
monies and properties of any investor or its clients
in such manner as the Commission thinks
appropriate or to transfer the monies and properties
of such investors or its clients or any documents or
electronic record in relation to such monies or
properties to any other person as may be specified
by the Commission;
(ii) direct a trustee to transfer any documents or
electronic records in relation to monies or properties
to any other person as may be specified by the
Commission;
(iii) prohibit the market intermediary from entering into
transactions, soliciting business from persons or
require the market intermediary or trustee to carry
on business in a manner as may be specified by the
Commission; or
(iv) require a market intermediary or trustee to maintain
property within Sri Lanka or at a place outside Sri
Lanka as determined by the Commission.
(2)  The Commission shall not take any action under this
section without giving such market intermediary an
opportunity to be heard prior to taking any action under
subsection (1).
(3)  Subsection (2) shall not apply if the Commission
considers that any delay in taking an action under this section
would be prejudicial to the interest of investors, the interest
of clients of the market intermediary or the public interest.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 159 -->

150 Securities Exchange
176. (1) On an application made by the Commission, if
it appears to Court that there is a reasonable likelihood that
any person will, or has contravened a provision of this Act,
regulations or any rule made thereunder or that a person has
failed or is failing to comply with any directive issued by
the Commission, the Court may make—
(a) an order restraining or requiring the cessation of
the contravention;
(b) an order restraining a person from dealing or trading
in securities in respect of any class of securities
mentioned in the order;
(c) an order declaring a securities transaction to be
void;
(d) an order restraining the person from acquiring,
disposing of or otherwise dealing with assets which
the Court is satisfied that such person is reasonably
likely to acquire, dispose of or otherwise deal with;
(e) an order directing a person to dispose of any
securities that are specified in the order;
(f) an order restraining the exercise of any voting or
other rights attached to any securities that are
specified in the order;
(g) an order restraining a person from making available,
offering for subscription or purchase or issuing an
invitation to subscribe for or purchase or allotting
any securities that are specified in the order;
(h) an order appointing a receiver or liquidator over
the property of a market intermediary or the property
that is held by such person for or on behalf of another
person whether on trust or otherwise;
5
10
15
20
25
Power of the
Commission
to apply to
Court for
certain
orders.
30

<!-- page 160 -->

Securities Exchange 151
(i) an order vesting securities or such other property
that is specified in the order in a trustee appointed
by Court;
(j) an order requiring a person to do such act or comply
with such directive where such a person has refused
or failed or is refusing or failing or is proposing to
refuse or fail to do any act or comply with any
directive that such person is required to do under
this Act;
(k) an order requiring that person or any other person
who appears to have been knowingly involved in
the contravention to take such steps as the Court
may direct to remedy it or to mitigate its effect
including making restitution to any other person
aggrieved by such contravention;
(l) an order directing a person to do or refrain from
doing a specified act for the purpose of securing
compliance with any other order under this section;
(m) an order directing a person to comply with a directive
that is issued by the Commission;
(n) an order imposing a travel ban on any person in
contravention of any provision of the Act; or
(o) any ancillary order deemed to be desirable in
consequence of the making of an order under any
of the preceding provision of this subsection.
(2)  If an application is made to a Court for an order under
subsection (1), the Court may, make an interim order
ex parte pending the determination of the application.
(3)  The Court may before making an order under
subsection (1),direct that notice of the application be given
to such persons as it thinks fit or direct that notice of the
application be published in such manner as it thinks fit or
both.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 161 -->

152 Securities Exchange
(4)  Where an application for an order under subsection
(1) is made by the Commission or any person duly
authorized by the Commission the Court shall not as a
condition of the grant of the order require any undertaking
as to damages to be given by or on behalf of the Commission.
(5)  A person appointed by order of the Court under
subsection (1) as a receiver of the property of a market
intermediary–
(a) may require the market intermediary to deliver to
the receiver any property of which he has been
appointed receiver or to give to the receiver all
information concerning that property that may
reasonably be required;
(b) may acquire and take possession of any property of
which he has been appointed receiver;
(c) may deal with any property that he has acquired or
of which he has taken possession in any manner in
which the holder might lawfully have dealt with
the property; and
(d) has such other powers in respect of the property as
the Court specifies in the order.
(6)  In this section, “property”, in relation to a market
intermediary includes monies, securities or other property
and documents of title to securities or other property
entrusted to or received on behalf of any other person by the
market intermediary or another person in the course of or in
connection with the business of the market intermediary.
(7)  The trustee appointed by an order of the Court under
this section—
(a) may require any person to deliver to the trustee any
security or such other property specified in the order
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 162 -->

Securities Exchange 153
or to give to the trustee all information concerning
the securities that may reasonably be required;
(b) may acquire and take possession of the securities
or such other property;
(c) may deal with the securities or such other property
in any manner as it thinks fit; and
(d) shall have such other powers in respect of the
securities or such other property as may be specified
by the Court in the order.
(8)  The proceeds of the dealing in or disposal of securities
under subsection (1) shall be paid to Court and any person
claiming to be beneficially entitled to the whole or any part
of such proceeds may within thirty days of such payment to
Court apply to the Court for payment out of the proceeds
due to him.
(9)  The Court may rescind, vary or discharge an order
made by it under this section or suspend the operation of
such an order on the application of a party aggrieved by
such order with prior notice to the Commission of such
application of an aggrieved party.
177. (1)  The Commission may, if it considers that it is
in the public interest to do so, recover on behalf of a person
who suffers loss or damage by reason of, or by relying on the
conduct of another person who has contravened any
provision relating to issue of securities, the amount of the
loss or damage by instituting civil proceedings against the
other person whether or not that other person has been
charged with an offence in respect of the contravention or
whether or not a contravention has been proved in a
prosecution.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Power of the
Commission
to recover
damages on
behalf of
investors.

<!-- page 163 -->

154 Securities Exchange
 (2)  Notwithstanding the provisions of any law, relating
to limitation of time, an action under subsection (1) may be
instituted within six years from the date on which the
Commission became aware of the contravention.
(3)  Any loss or damage recovered by the Commission
shall be paid into the Fund of the Commission and be
applied–
(a) to reimburse the Commission for all costs of the
investigation and proceedings in respect of the
contravention; and
(b) to compensate persons who suffer loss or damage
by reason of, or by relying on, the conduct of
another person who has contravened the provisions
relating to the issuance of securities under this Act.
(4)  Where to the extent that any amount recovered or
obtained in a civil action under subsection (1) has not been
distributed pursuant to subsection (3), it shall be retained by
the Commission to defray the costs of regulating the market,
as the Commission may determine.
(5)  Subject to subsection (1), any person who suffers loss
or damage by reason of, or by relying on, the conduct of
another person who has contravened the provisions relating
to the issuance of securities, may recover the amount of the
loss or damage by instituting civil proceedings against the
other person whether or not that other person has been
charged with an offence in respect of the contravention or
whether or not a contravention has been proved in a
prosecution.
(6)  Any right of action that is conferred under this section
is in addition to any right that such person has under any
other law.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 164 -->

Securities Exchange 155
178. The Commission may, where it thinks necessary
or expedient in the interest of the public or for the protection
of investors and in such form or manner as it thinks fit, publish
any information in relation to any decision made or any
action taken by the Commission under this Act, regulations,
rules or directives.
179. (1) The Minister may make regulations to give
effect to the principles and provisions of this Act.
 (2)  In particular, the Minister may make regulations in
regard to –
(a) the terms and conditions to be satisfied for the
purpose of granting of licence to a market
institution;
(b) the terms and conditions to be complied with for
the purpose of granting a licence to a market
intermediary;
(c) the purpose for which the Cess Fund could be used
for developing the securities market in Sri Lanka;
(d) give effect to any memorandum of understanding
between the Commission and its foreign counter
part or any other organization in respect of listing
of a foreign entity in Sri Lanka or sharing of
information; and
(e) in respect of all matters prescribed by this Act.
 (3)  
Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
 (4)  Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as it is convenient after its publication in the Gazette be
5
10
15
20
25
30
Power of the
Commission
to publish
information.
Regulations
made by the
Minister.

<!-- page 165 -->

156 Securities Exchange
brought before Parliament for approval.  Any regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of such disapproval but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
  (5)  Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
180. (1) The Commission may make rules as may be
required from time to time for the purpose of giving full
effect to the provisions of this Act or in carrying out the
powers, objectives and functions under this Act including
but not limited to the following :–
(a) listing and trading of securities in an exchange and
the subsequent issue of any additional securities
by way of rights or bonus or otherwise by listed
public companies;
(b) regulation of listed foreign entities in respect of
listing and trading in an exchange and other related
matters arising therefrom;
(c) disclosures by market intermediaries about security
transactions by persons who acquired or disposed
of securities and by an exchange about security
transactions;
(d) proper maintenance of books, records, accounts and
audits by a market institution, market intermediary
and regular reporting by such market institution
and market intermediary to the Commission of their
affairs;
(e) the procedure to be followed in the cancellation or
suspension of a licence issued or a registration
granted under this Act;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules made
by the
Commission.

<!-- page 166 -->

Securities Exchange 157
(f) the annual audit of the books, records, accounts
and the preparation of financial statements by a
market institution and market intermediary;
(g) regulation of take over or mergers where the target
of such take over or merger is a listed public
company;
(h) a code of conduct to be observed by the trustee and
an issuer of securities and a managing company of
a collective investment scheme and a code on the
operation and approval of a collective investment
scheme;
(i) matters in respect of which rules are required by
this Act to be made;
(j) the prudential requirements, fit and proper criteria,
record keeping and other documentation systems
to be followed by a market institution and market
intermediary;
(k) the form and contents of prospectus proposed to be
issued by a listed public company or a public
company which has applied for a listing or a listed
foreign entity;
(l) the operation of securities in a margin account by a
stock broker or by a margin provider;
(m) the business affairs and activities of a market
institution and market intermediaries, in relation
to listed securities and exchange traded derivatives;
(n) disclosure and reporting and the provision of
information by listed public companies, listed
foreign entities and other unlisted companies
coming within the purview of this Act;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 167 -->

158 Securities Exchange
(o) rejection of applications for listing made to an
exchange and the suspension and cancellation of
listing by an exchange;
(p) in relation to the trading of derivative contracts
carried out by utilizing the facilities of a licensed
derivatives exchange;
(q) the regulation of the activities of stock lenders and
stock borrowers and on the regulation of short
selling;
(r) the establishment and operation of a fidelity fund
or compensation fund for a derivatives exchange;
and
(s) provision for settlement of disputes between client
and market intermediary and between the respective
participants or members and market institutions.
(2)  
Every rule made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
181. Notwithstanding any other law, a derivative
contract traded through an exchange shall not be taken to
be a gaming or wagering contract.
182. (1) The Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987 is hereby repealed (hereinafter
referred to as the “repealed Act”).
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Securities and
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987—
(a) (i) the Commission established under the repealed
Act and functioning as such on the day
immediately prior to the date of operation of
5
10
15
20
25
30
Derivatives
not gaming
or wagering
contracts.
Repeals,
savings and
transitional
provisions.

<!-- page 168 -->

Securities Exchange 159
Part I of this Act shall be deemed to be the
Commission for the purposes of this Act until
a new Commission is established under Part I
of this Act and continue accordingly; and
(ii) the appointed members holding office
immediately prior to the date of operation of
Part I shall be deemed to have been appointed
as such under this Act and continue to hold
office until the end of their tenure or until new
members are appointed under this Act;
(b) every licence issued to any exchange, stock broker
or stock dealer  or a managing company for the
purpose of operating an unit trust under the repealed
Act and which is in force immediately prior to the
dates of operation of Part II and Part III of this Act,
shall be deemed to be a licence issued by the
Commission under this Act;
(c) every certificate of registration issued to any
clearing house or any market intermediary under
the repealed Act and which is in force immediately
prior to the dates of operation of Part IIand Part III
of this Act shall be deemed to be a licence issued
by the Commission under this Act;
(d) all regulations, rules and directives made,approvals
granted and any other action taken or notices issued
under the repealed Act and are in force on the day
immediately prior to the date of commencement of
this Act and not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act shall be deemed to be regulations, rules
and directives made, approvals granted and any
other action taken or notices issued by the
Commission under this Act and shall continue to
be valid;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 169 -->

160 Securities Exchange
(e) all contracts, agreements and other instruments
under the repealed Act and subsisting on the day
immediately prior to the date of commencement of
this Act shall be deemed to be contracts, agreements
or other instruments entered into by the
Commission under this Act;
(f) all suits, actions, and other legal proceedings
instituted by or against the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka established under the
repealed Act and pending on the day, immediately
prior to the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be deemed to be suits, actions and other legal
proceedings instituted by or against the
Commission under this Act;
(g) all rules of the market institutions made under the
repealed Act and are in force on the day
immediately prior to the date of commencement of
this Act and not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, deemed to be rules made by such market
institutions under this Act until new rules are made
by such market institutions under this Act;
(h) every application for a licence made under the
provisions of the repealed Act shall with effect from
the date of commencement of this Act be deemed
to be an application made to the Commission
established under this Act and shall be dealt with
accordingly;
(i) all movable and immovable property vested in the
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka
established under the repealed Act and existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall, with effect from
the date of commencement of this Act, be vested
with the Commission;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 170 -->

Securities Exchange 161
(j) all sums of money lying to the credit of the funds of
the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri
Lanka established under the repealed Act and
existing on the day immediately preceding the date
of commencement of this Act, shall stand
transferred, with effect from the date of
commencement of this Act, to the respective funds
of the Commission established under Part VI of this
Act;
(k) all contraventions or proceedings initiated under
the provisions of the repealed Act, regulations, rules
or directives made thereunder prior to the
commencement of this Act, shall be offences
committed or proceedings initiated under the
repealed Act and be tried accordingly;
(l) all interests, rights, assets, obligations, debts and
liabilities of the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka established under the
repealed Act prior to the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be deemed with effect from the date
of commencement of this Act to be the interests,
rights, assets, obligations, debts and liabilities of
the Commission;
(m) all officers and servants of the Securities and
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka established
under the repealed Act holding office prior to the
date of commencement of this Act, shall, with the
consent of the officer or servant concerned, deemed
with effect from the date of commencement of this
Act to be the officers and servants of the
Commission, on terms not less favourable than the
terms and conditions of employment to which they
were entitled under the repealed Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 171 -->

162 Securities Exchange
(3) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Securities and
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987—
(a) every reference to Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987 in
any other written law shall be construed as a
reference to this Act; and
(b) every reference to the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987 in
any other written law shall be construed as referring
to the corresponding provisions contained in this
Act.
183. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 172 -->

Securities Exchange 163