

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
JAYANTHIPURA SUBASADAKA SANGAMAYA
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. (Mrs.) Sriyani Wijewickrama M. P . for Digamadulla
District on 09th June,  2011
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
——————
——————
[Bill No. 109]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on May 30, 2011)

<!-- page 2 -->

1The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  JAY ANTHIPURA  SUBASADAKA  SANGAMAYA
WHEREAS the Sangamaya called and known as “The
Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya”, Battaramulla,  has
been established in the year 1969 in the District of Colombo
for the purpose of effectually carrying out  and transactions
all objects and matters connected with the said Sangamaya
according to the rules agreed to by the members who
constituted the said Sangamaya :
AND WHEREAS the said Sangamaya, heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which the said Sangamaya was established, and has  applied
to be incorporated as “The Jayanthipura Subasadaka
Sangemaya Incorporated”, and it will be for public interest
and advantage to grant such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as “The Jayanthipura
Subasadaka Sangamaya (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
said “The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Sangamaya”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereafter  referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name, description and
style of  “The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporated)” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
Courts of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
with full  power and authority to use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Jayanthipura
Subasadaka
Sangamaya.
10
Preamble.
5
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
2
3. The general objects for which “The Jayanthipura
Subasadaka Sangamaya Incorporated” hereafter referred to
as the “Corporation” is constituted, are hereby declared to be
as hereunder,—
(a) to induce, foster and promote the mutual welfare of
its members and their dependents, recognizing the
multi-faceted composition of the residents of
Jayanthipura ;
(b) to protect and safeguard the rights, liberty and
privileges of its members and their families ;
(c) to protect and ensure that the environment in which
the members reside is not adversely affected and that
the natural surroundings, greenery and wetlands are
not wantonly damaged, destroyed or willfully
interfered with or encroached upon and that the
congenial atmsophere in which they reside is not
adversely affected ;
(d) to protect, safeguard and give succour to the members,
their families and the General Public during natural
calamities, floods, cyclones, earthquakes, fire and all
such other natural disasters ;
(e) to ensure that the health and hygiene of the members
is not affected due to factors beyond their control and
ensure that all the relevant administrative authorities
carry out their tasks and responsibilities effectively,
in the best interests of the members, and the general
public in the region ;
(f) to promote, provide and ensure that health insurance,
life insurance, social insurance, accident insurance
and group housing insurance schemes against fire,
floods or natural disasters are jointly or severally made
available to the members ;
10
5
15
20
25
30
The General
Objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
(g) to initiate steps and also seek assistance of
governmental and non-governmental organizations
(NGOO) for an ambulance service and establishment
of a commiunty centre, a Day-Care centre, a nursery
school and a gymnasium, a Home for Elders and senior
citizens of the said region ;
(h) to hold periodical clinics to check on prevalence of
health hazards and also assist members and their
families to obtain health facilities and material free
of charge or at concessionary rates from governmental
and non-governmental establishments ;
(i) to create a Fund for buliding a spacious and fully
equipped Headquarters for the Corporation with
donations from members, well-wishers and also with
the assistance from government, local government
and non-government organiaztions, and such
Headquarters shall contain:—
(i) an office, a library and a reading room, auditorium
and a hall for cultural activities, social gatherings,
and indoor games ;
(ii) a computer and IT Centre to train school leavers,
unemployed and educated youth in the region
to seek gainful employment and for self-
employment projects;
(j) to organize and encourage vocational training
schemes for the benefit of school leavers and educated
unemployed youth of members and the residents of
Battaramulla Kaduwela Region ;
(k) to promote home gardening as a supplementary source
of income for all residents in the region :—
(i) to assist retirees and pensioners and senior
citizens to get them selves duly organized to
10
5
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 5 -->

The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
4
obtation their dues and assist them to rectify any
anomalies in their gratuities, pensions, provident
fund dues etc. ;
(ii) to carry forward the Death Donation Scheme
already established by the Corporation and assist
the bereaved families in every  possible way.
(l) to urge the relevant authorities to further develop the
Jayanthipura Housing Scheme by providing  proper
lighting, maintenance of the roads, and other
facilities.
(m ) to do, perform and execute all such activities, matters
and actions as are necessary and incidental or
conducive to the carrying out, or, the attainment of
the objects and aims of the Sangamaya, now know as
the Corporation.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules stipulated by the Corporation, be administered by a
Board of Management consisting of such number of office
bearers and other members duly elected in accordance with
the provisions of this Act and rules of the Corporation at a
General or Special General meeting of the members of the
Corporation.
(2) The First Board of Management of the Corporation
shall be the Managing Committee of the Sangamaya holding
office on the day preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3) in the event of the removal, resignation or death of a
member of the Board of Management, the vacancy so created
shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of this Act
and the rules for the time being of the Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power :—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwise
obtain lands or building which may be required for
the purposes of the Corporation ;
(b) to borrow or raise money from the Government
approved Banks and Institutions (foreign and local)
for the purposes of the Corporation without
prejudice to any property of the Corporation ;
(c) to employ , engage, dismiss or terminate the service
of officers, employees or servants of the Corporation
and to pay them such salaries, allowances, and
gratuities etc. as may be determined by the
Corporation from time to time ;
(d) to seek aid, assistance and co-operation from any
governmental, semi-governmental, provincial
government, or non-governmental organizations
both local and international for achieving any or all
the objects of the Corporation and welfare of the
members of the said Corporation ;
(e) to provide such social services beneficial to members
of the Corporation and the general public needing
such services ;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or persons, body of persons, institutions, companies,
Corporations etc.
(g) to charge fees for the enrolment of members or
re-enrolment of a person or persons who had been
members of the Sangamaya (Corporation) on terms
and conditions stipulated.
(h) to open, operate, maintain and close bank accounts ;
10
5
15
20
25
30
Powers of the
Corporation
to acquire
property,
invest funds
and raise
loans etc.

<!-- page 7 -->

The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
6
(i) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation, in such  manner as the
Board may think fit ;
(j) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donations
and gifts of all kinds ; and
(k) to perform all such acts, activities necessary or
expedient and conducive for the effective carrying
out of any or all of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any Meeting of the Corporation and by a majority of
not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting to
make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law, for the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members, their admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation ;
(b) election of the Board of Management or vacation
of, or removal from office as office-bearers and
delegation of powers, duties and conduct of the
Board of Management ;
(c) appointment, delegation of powers, duties, functions
and conduct of the various, committees, sub
committees,  agents  and  servants  of  the
Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be observed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation, the Board
of Management of the Corporation or any
subcommittee thereof, filling of vacancies, notices
and agenda of such meetings, the quorum therefore,
and the conduct of business threat ;
10
5
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership the Board of Management and the
Corporation ; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
and generally for the management of the affairs of
the Corporation and the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) No rules of the Corporation for the time being in
force or any rule which may hereafter be passed, shall  altered,
added to, amended or rescinded except by the votes of not
less than two-thirds of the members present and voting at a
special or general meeting of the Corporation.
(3) The rules of the Corporation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
deemed to be rules made under this section, insofar as such
rules are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law.
(4) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
reles for the time being in force of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and all
moneys received by way of donations, gifts, testamentary
dispositions, transfers, contributions, or fees  shall be
deposited in the name of the Corporation in one or more
Banks as the Board of Management shall determine.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.
(3) The expenses incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise and discharge of powers and functions of the
Corporation shall be paid out of the Fund.
Fund of the
Corporaion.
10
5
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
8
8. (1) The Board of Management shall cause proper
accounts to be kept of all income and expenditure by the
Corporation.
(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by an Auditor who shall be either a Charted
Accountant or a Registered Auditor or a Firm of Charted
Accountants appointed by the Board of Management.
9. The moneys and property of the Corporation
wheresoever derived, shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of its objects as setforth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the
members of the Corporation.
10. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument except by the authority of a resolution of the
Board of Management in the presence of two members of the
Board of Management and the Genetal Secretary or such
other office-bearer as the Board of Management may appoint
for the purpose, and the Members of the Board of Management
and the General Secretary or other office-bearer as aforesaid
shall sign every instrument to which the Seal of the
Corporation is so affixed in their presence.
11. In the event of the dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, if there remains after the satisfaction for all its
debts and liabilities and outgoings, any perperty whatsoever,
such property shall not be distributed among the members of
the Corporation, but the same shall be given or transferred to
an institution or institutions having objects similar to the
objects of the Corporation and which is or are by rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property, among
the members of such institution or institutions and at the
discretion of the Board of Management of the Corporation. If
any property or any part thereof cannot be disposed of in
accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section,
such property or part thereof shall be applied to some
charitable object which shall be determined by the Board of
Management.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Dissolution
or winding
up.
Application
of moneys
and property
Accounts and
Auditing.
10
5
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 10 -->

9The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
12. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or any
other persons except such as are mentioned in this Act and
those claiming by, from, or under them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
5

<!-- page 11 -->

The Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya
(Incorporation)
10
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.