

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 224
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"057 – 2018 fmnrjdß ui 02 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'02'02
No. 2,057  –  fRiday ,  fEbRuaRy 02, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd february, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th february, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
221-b 81248- 5,403 (02/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
222
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
223
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
224
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of SPORTS
National Institute of Sports Science
diPLoma couRSE iN SPoRtS 2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitably qualified 
candidates to follow the diploma course in Sports 
conducted in Sinhala medium by the National institute of 
Sports Scinece of the ministry of Sports. the applicants 
should be between 18-35 years of age. (the upper age limit 
for those who are in government service should not exceed 
45 years)
01. Educational and other Qualifications :
 1.1  Should have passed G. c. E. ordinary Level 
Examination in six(6) subjects with three (03) 
credits in not more than two sittings and two 
of the six subjects should be Sinhala or tamil 
Language and arithmetic or mathematics.
  in addition to the above, the applicants should 
have obtained :-
 (a) Should have sucessfully, completed a 
course in Sports or physical Education 
which is not less than six(06) months 
(from a recognized school.
or
 (b) Should have successfully completed a 
course in sports or physical Education in 
a training institute or school of the Police, 
armed forces or civil defence Service.
 or
 (c) Should have served as a teacher in sports 
or Ground instructor/tress in a Local 
Government body or should have shown 
special performance in the field of sports 
with at least five (05) years experience.
 or
 (d) Should be a member of a National Sports 
team in any sports and should have 
participated in an international competition
or
 (e) Should have obtained first or second place 
of a district Level competition in National 
Sports festival conducted by the ministry 
of Sports or first, second or third place in a 
National Level competition conducted by 
a National Sports association.
 1.2 application which do not conform to the 
specimen form will be rejected.
02. Preparation of Application :
 2.1 Candidates possessing the necessary qualifications 
mentioned above should submit their applications 
in a paper of 8" x 13 1/2" in size as per specimen 
application form appearing at the end of this 
notice. applications should be completed 
in applicant's own handwriting and sent by 
registered post to reach the director, National 
institute of Sports Science, 100/7, independence 
avenue, colombo 07, on or before 15.02.2018.
 2.2 "application for the course of diploma in Sports 
2018" should be written at the top left corner of 
the envelope containing the application.
 2.3 applicants from the Government Service 
Provincial Government Service, corporations 
should channel their applications through the 
heads of their respective departments/insitutions. 
the applications which to not conform to this 
requirement will be rejected.
03. Selection of Candidates.– out of the applications 
received, all candidates who have fulfilled required 
qualifications will be called for a written examination. 
the candidates who are succesfull at the examination will 
be called for an interview and a physical fitness practical 
examination. those who are successful will be selected to 
follow the course. 
04. Details of the course :
 4.1 Syllabus contains five sections as follows :
 (a) General Theory of Training.– study of 
Physical Qualities, Skill development 
techniques and Strategies, training 
methods, aspects of Planning, Principles 
of training Load and tests and a viva voce 
examination. 
 (b) theory and practice of at least ten major 
sports. 
 (c) Specialization in track and field athletics.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
225
 (d) Within the duration of the diploma course, 
specialization is required in one of sports 
for male and female candidates depending 
on the situation in addition to track and 
field athletics.
 (e) Knowledge of general subjects subh as 
Sports Physiology, Sports Sociology, 
Sports administration Sports Statistics, 
organizing methods of Sports festivals, 
Sports medicine, Sports biochemistry, 
Sports Nutrition and Sports Psychology. 
 4.2 the duration of the course is 12 months. 
 4.3 those who are selected to follow the course 
should pay a course fee of Rs. 60,000 before 
commencement of the curse which is not 
refundable by any means. in the event the course 
fee being paid by a cheque, it should be drawn 
in favour of the "Secretary, ministry of Sports". 
Please note that only those who paid the coure 
fee in full prior to the commencement of the 
course will be enrolled to follow the course. 
 4.4 the selected candidates are bound to follow the 
rules and regulations of the National institute of 
Sports Science. 
 4.5 candidates who complete the course successfully 
will be awarded with a certificate of "Diploma in 
Sports". 
05. Other Conditions :
 5.1 the ministry does not hold responsibility to 
provide employment to those who complete the 
course. 
 5.2 However if the ministry requires, those who 
are following this course should enter into an 
agreement with the director of the National 
institute of Sports Science, they should do so 
accordingly. 
 5.3 Highes qualifications or required qualifications 
should be stated in the application and any 
data/details provided thereinafter will not be 
entertained. 
 5.4 Any matter which is not specified in this notice 
will be decided at the discretion of the director 
fo the National institute of Sports Science. 
  director, 
  National institute of Sports Science. 
No. 100/7, independence avenue, 
colombo 07, 
22nd January, 2018.
Specimen application Form
national inStitute oF SportS Science
DiPlOmA in SPOrTS - 2018/2019
01. (i) full Name : mr/mrs/miss :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
 (iii) full Name (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
 (iv) National indentity card No. :
02.  address :
 (i) Private :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Official :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Telephone Official :–––––––––––.
  t elephone Private :–––––––––––.
03.  date of birth : 
 y ear   month date
 age on 15.02.2018 :
 y ears  months  days
04. State Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
 (by descent or by registration) :–––––––––––.
05.  (i) Sex :–––––––––––.
  (ii) marital Status :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
226
06. Whether you are employed or not  : 
  (i) Post :–––––––––––.
  (ii) duration of the service :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Service Station :–––––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications :
  (i) G. c. E. (ordinary Level) :
   y ear
   Exam No. :–––––––––––.
 Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
 
\
  (ii) G. c. E. (advanced Level) :
   y ear :
   Exam No. :–––––––––––.
 Subjects Grade
 (iii)  Other Education Qualification (Highest Exam /
degree) :
   y ear :
   Exam No.  :–––––––––––.
 Subjects Grade
08. achievements in Sports : (Please include your 
Certificates of highest achivements and special abilities 
-Please attach the photo copies)
  1. Performance over 16 years of age at National 
School competitions.
   –––––––––––––
   –––––––––––––
  2. Performance at National Sports festival district/
Provincial/National
   ––––––––––––––
   ––––––––––––––
  3. Performance at National competitions conducted 
by National Sports associations 
   ––––––––––––––
   ––––––––––––––
  4. Participation in international Sports competitions
   ––––––––––––––
   ––––––––––––––
09.  (i)  according to the Gazette notification, Please state, 
under which qualification category of 1.1 that you 
are eligible to apply for the course.
  a b c d e
 (ii) Give details of qualifications relevant to the 
category stated above :
10. any other special remarks :–––––––––––.
11. Whether you are prepared to pay a course fee of                        
Rs 60,000 if selected :–––––––––––.
i certify that the particulars given above are true and 
correct. i am aware that if the Particulars furnished by me 
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqulified 
and removed from the course.
 –––––––––––––––,
 applicant ’s Signature.
date  :––––––––––––.
for Government/Local Government/corporation,
Employees only :
director,
National institute of Sports Science :
i recommend herewith the application of mr/mrs/miss… 
employee of .....................… working as...................... and  i 
also agree to release him/her from the post he/she holds for 
the period of the course in the event of being selected.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Certifying Officer,
address  :––––––––––––.
(Confirmation with the rubber frank)
date :––––––––––––.
 Name of the Certifying Officer  :––––––––––––.
 designation  :––––––––––––.
02-222

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
227
STATE muSIC AWARDS CEREmONy - 2018
Applications are accepted for music creations, of 
following categories launched in the years 2016 
and 2017 (Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums) 
for State music  Awards Ceremony - 2018
no. Category
 01. best Singer (male) Solo-Sinhala
 02. best Singer (male) Solo - tamil
 03. best Singer (male) Solo - English
 04. best Singer (female) Solo - Sinhala
 05. best Singer (female) Solo - tamil
 06. best Singer (female) Solo - English
 07. best music composition - Sinhala
 08. best music composition - tamil
 09. best music composition - English
 10. best Lyrics - Sinhala
 11. best Lyrics - tamil
 12. best Lyrics - English
 13. best Visual music direction - Sinhala
 14. best Visual music direction - tamil
 15. best Visual music direction - E nglish
 16. best Singer - children's category (male) Solo - 
Sinhala
 17. best Singer - children's category (male) Solo - tamil
 18. best Singer - children's category (male) Solo- 
English
 19. best Singer - children's category (female) Solo - 
Sinhala
 20. best Singer - children's category (female) Solo - 
tamil
 21. best Singer - children's category (female) Solo- 
English
 22. best music composition - children's Songs - Sinhala
 23. best music composition - children's Songs - tamil
 24. best music composition - children's Songs - English
 25. best Lyrics - children's Songs - Sinhala
 26. best Lyrics - children's Songs - tamil
 27. best Lyrics - children's Songs - English 
 28. best New creation (associated with folk songs) 
open (based on various techniques and musical 
instruments, duration Should be between - 05-07 
minutes)
 
Terms and Conditions :
 * the applicant should be a Sri Lankan citizen
 * the applicant should be the relevant composer/
artiste, only the creations launched during the 
period from 01st January 2016 to 31st december 
2017 will be considered. (this should be proved 
through an affidavit)
 * Should be original creations, which do not 
challenge values Social.
 * Should be in advanced technology with a 
qualitative and creative value. 
 * a  separete application should be sent for each 
creation and should accompany a separate cd.
 * in case of entries  for lyrics, the cd should 
accompany the lyrics in writing in 05 copies in 
a4 sheets.
 * Please note that the department will not take 
the responsibility of returning the cdS after the 
evaluation process.
applicants should be between 08-15 years of age as 
at 31.01.2018 for the category of best Singer - children's 
category (date of birth should be between 31.01.2003 to 
31.01.2010) Certified copy of the Birth Certificate should be 
attached with the application.
 *  Awards and certificates will be presented for 
Sinhala, tamil and English mediums separately.
 *  Each applicant will be entitled to present 3 
creations under any one category and could 
present creations under any 3 categories above. 
altogether a single applicant could present 
maximum of 09 creations. applications that 
are sent in excess will be rejected without any 
clarification.
 *  applicants violating the terms and conditions 
wll result in rejecting their creations without any 
prior notice.
 *  those who are found to be gulity of any 
act of fraud, even after the State music 
awards ceremony, will not be considered for 
participation in any state festival, organized by 
the department of cultural affairs in future.
 *  the decision of the Panel of Judges in all matters 
concerned shall be final.
 
those who wish to participate could send their entries 
prepared as per the specimen application given below. duly 
filled applicatios together with relevant CDs and documents 
should be sent by registered post to reach State music 
Promotion division, department of cultural affairs, 8th 
floor, Sethsiripaya, battaramulla or handed over before  

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
228
15th march 2018, "State music Awards Ceremony-2018" 
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
for information :- 011-2872036/011-2872031
  www.culturaldept.gov.lk
 anuSha gokula Fernando,
 director of cultural affairs.
aPPLicatioN foR StatE muSic aWaRdS 
cEREmoNy - 2018
 1. category :–––––––––––.
 2.  category No. :–––––––––––.
 3.  Name of the applicant (With initials) :–––––––––––.
 4. address :–––––––––––.
 5. divisional Secretary's division of your residence : 
–––––––––––.
 6. district :–––––––––––.
 7. t elephone No. :–––––––––––.
 8. fax  :–––––––––––.
 9. E-mail :–––––––––––.
 10 date of brith :–––––––––––.
 11 National identity card No. :–––––––––––.
 12. Names of other artistes who have contributed in other 
components of the creation :
  Lyrics :–––––––––––.
  music :–––––––––––.
  Singing :–––––––––––.
  other :–––––––––––.
i possess the ownership of this creation which is presented 
for the State music awards ceremony - 2018. i certify that 
this is a creation produced and lauched during the period 
from 01st January 2016 to 31st december 2017. i attached 
herewith the affidavit to prove the above.
i accept the terms and conditions of the competition and 
the decision of the Panel of Judges as final.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
02-138 
––––––––––––––––
STATE TELEvISION ARTS AWARDS 
CEREmONy - 2018
Organized by the Department of Cultural Affairs 
on the Direction of the ministry of Internal Affairs, 
Wayamba Development and Cultural Affairs
amatEuR and veteran artistes are given due  accolade 
at State television arts awards ceremony, with a view to 
heighten the status of tele artistes who engage in Sri Lankan 
tele industry for its propagation and promotion.
01. Outstanding Television Drama Series.– awards for 
2017 will be presented under the following categories from 
among the tele drama series telecast in theyear 2017.
 (i) outstanding television drama
 (ii) outstanding direction
 (iii) outstanding acting (male)
 (iv) outstanding acting (female)
 (v) outstanding supprotive acting (male)
 (vi) outstanding supprotive acting (female)
 (vii) outstanding television play writing
 (viii) outstanding art direction
 (ix) outstanding make up
 (x) outstanding camera direction
 (xi) outstanding editing
 (xii) outstanding music direction
 (xiii) outstanding theme song
  (a) Lyrics
  (b) music
  (c) V ocals
 (xiv) outstanding sound designing
in addition special awards of the jury will be presented 
for excellent performances of children's acting, speical 
visual effects and other.
the maximum number of episodes in the television 
drama should be 100.
 02. outstanding drama (Single Episode)
 03. outstanding docu drama
 04. outstanding children's drama
 05. outstanding t elefilm
 06. outstanding magazine Programme
 07. outstanding audio/Visual cultural Programme
 08. outstanding audio/Visual cultural Programme
 09. outstanding music Video
 10. outstanding children's Programme
 11. outstanding dubbed Programme
 12. outstanding animation Programme
 13. outstanding multi camera Production (Evaluation 
will be done under outstanding set design, 
outstanding lighting  direction, outstanding vision 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
229
mixing, outstanding  audio mixing outstanding 
make up)
 14. outstanding t elevision filler
 15. outstanding Publicity/Promotional advertisement 
(Public promotion and social responsible 
television commercials)
 16. outstanding academic/Research Publication on 
television media (Evaluation will be done only on 
academic Publications printed in the year 2017)
the descriptive pamphlet and the application could be 
obtained by sending a self-addressed stamped envelope 
to the following  address or through the website www.
culturaldept.gov.lk Entries should be sent on dVd playable. 
Entries that are sent on data format will be rejected. Every 
category of entry should accompany the dVd along with 
the application. "State television arts awards ceremony 
- 2018" and the name of the category of entry (as per the 
descriptive pamphlet) should be written on the top left hand 
corner of the envelop enclosing the duly filled application 
and the dVd. Entries should be sent by registered post or 
could be handed over to the address given below. incomplete 
applications will be rejected. the decision of the Jury will 
be the final and conclusive. DVDs will not be returned after 
the evaluation process. closing date and time for acceptance 
of entries is 31st march 2018 at 4.00 p.m.
address :- director, department of cultural affairs, 
  8th floor, Sethsiripaya, battaramulla.
telephone - 011-2882534/011-2872031
E-mail : Staac2018@gmail.com
N.B.– only the tele creations which have been 
completed telecasting for the first time, on  or 
before 31st december 2017, will be considered for 
this awards ceremony.
 director,
 department of cultural affairs.
02-179
––––––––––––––––––
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR ThE RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST 
Of ASSISTANT RESEARCh OffICER IN 
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA – 2017 (2018)
it is hereby announced that the open competitive 
examination for the recruitment to the post of assistant 
Research Officer in Parliament of Sri Lanka will be 
conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
in may, 2018 in colombo.
 (a) the closing date of applications is 6th march, 2018
 (b) this application can also be downloaded from the 
website www.parliament.lk
02. as per the aggregate marks of the written test 
conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
and the structured interview, the selection for the four 
vacant posts will be made in the descending order from the 
candidate with the highest number of marks. 
the general nature of duties of the post in brief is to 
assist Research Officers in research activities, gathering 
information and maintaining a computer database, 
compiling accurate data and statistics in respect of specific 
topics, conducting research oriented surveys and studies as 
per requirements.   
03. monthly salary scale.– as per Schedule 1 of 
the management Services circular No. 06/2016 dated 
07.11.2016, the salary scale attached to the post is                         
Rs. 40,545-12x755- Rs. 49,605/-. Salaries will be paid 
in compliance with the provisions of the said circular as 
indicated in Schedule ii thereto. 
(the gross starting monthly salary applicable to this post 
inclusive of all additional allowances as at 28.02.2018 will 
be approximately Rs 67,000/-) 
after the completion of a satisfactory period of service 
of 10 years in the post of Assistant Research Officer, the 
Assistant Research Officers will be appointed to the post of 
Senior Assistant Research Officer.(The gross monthly salary 
applicable to that post is approximately Rs. 70,000/=)
04. Qualifications :
 (a)  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b)  Should not be less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age as at the closing date of 
applications. accordingly, only those whose 
birthdays fall on or before 06.03.2000 or on or 
after 06.03.1988 can apply for this post. 
 (c) Should be of excellent moral character.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
230
 (d) Should have completed the following educational 
qualifications : 
 (i) Should have passed 06 subjects at the 
G.c.E. (ordinary Level) Examination with 
a credit pass to English in not more than two 
sittings,
 and
 (ii) Should hold a special degree awarded by 
a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or an institution 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission as a degree awarding institution 
with a class in one of the following 
subjects, i.e. Econom ics, agriculture, 
Law, management, English, fisheries and 
aquantic Resources and Statistics,
 or
  Should hold a master of arts/ master of 
Science degree in one of the above subjects.
N.B. – it is compulsory for each candidate to have 
completed the qualifications relevant to the post on 
or before 06.03.2018. 
05. recruitment procedure.– through a written test and a 
structured interview.
06. examination Procedure :- 
 (a) Written Test 
  this test comprises two question papers to 
assess the proficiency in English Language and 
General Knowledge and both question papers 
will be in English medium. However, since the 
question paper on language competency contains 
a paragraph for translation, the candidates should 
make sure that they indicate in their application 
the medium in which they expect to sit the test.
marks Duration minimum 
pass mark 
Language 
proficiency 
100 3 hours 60%
General knowledge 100 1 hour 40%
(1) Language proficiency – This question paper 
consists of questions on comprehension, an 
essay, summarizing paragraphs, translating 
a paragraph in Sinhala/t amil language into 
English language and a paragraph in English 
language into Sinhala/t amil language which 
are designed to test the English language 
proficiency of candidates. All questions have 
to be answered.  
(2) General knowledge – this question paper 
consists of questions that test the knowledge 
of candidates on local and foreign trends. all 
questions have to be answered. 
 (b) Structured interview.– this interview will be 
conducted by an interview panel appointed by 
the Secretary General of Parliament to assess 
the communication skills and personality of 
candidates.
Note- marks will be deducted for illegible hand 
writing and spelling mistakes in respect of all 
written answer scripts. 
 (c) examination results.– Results of the examination 
will either be posted to candidates or posted on 
the website : www.results.exams.gov.lk by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
07. Terms and conditions of employment :–
 
 (a)  this post is permanent. you are bound by the 
policy decisions taken by the government in 
future in respect of the pension scheme entitled 
to this post. the selected candidates will initially 
be appointed on probation for a period of three 
(03) years and if an officer holding a permanent 
and pensionable post in the Public Service or 
the Provincial Public Service is selected, his/
her appointment will be on an acting basis for a  
period of one year. 
 (b) the selected  applicants shall  abide by the 
financial and departmental Regulations 
applicable to the staff of the Secretary General 
of Parliament.
 (c) the selected  applicants shall  contribute a 
certain percentage of his/her salary as decided 
by the government to the  Widows and orphans 
Pension  and the Widowers and orphans Pension  
funds  
 (d) the selected  applicants shall  be subjected to a 
medical examination

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
231
 (e) a  security clearance report on the selected 
applicants shall be obtained prior to their 
appointments.
08. Penalty for  submission of fake information.– the 
application shall be filled carefully with accurate information. 
the candidacy of any applicant shall be cancelled at the 
examination or prior or subsequent to the examination or at 
any moment if any applicant is found disqualified as per  the 
rules and regulations of the examination.    
09. examination Fees.– the examination fee is 
Rs.1200/=.This fee shall be credited from any Post Office 
or Sub Post Office of the Island only to the Public Income 
under the expenditure head number 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examinations. the receipt 
obtained in favor of the applicant shall be pasted on one edge 
on the relevant space provided in the application.( a copy of 
the receipt should be retained for future reference). Please 
be kindly informed that no additional fee shall be charged in 
addition to the examination fees. the examination fees are                     
non-refundable and non-transferable. further, money orders 
and stamps shall not be accepted.
10. method of Application :
 (a) the application should be prepared in 
accordance with the specimen attached to this 
notice and shall be prepared on both sides of two 
81/2" x12" (a4) size papers. the application 
shall be prepared in such a way that the  first 
page, second page and the third page  of the 
application carry the head numbered 01-02, 
03-05 and 06-07 respectively. the name of the 
examination indicated on top of the application 
shall be written in English language in the 
Sinhalese and tamil language applications in 
addition to the original language.
  the applications that are inconsistent with the 
specimen, that are not duly filled  and  incomplete 
and the applications for which the  examination 
fees have not been duly paid prior to the date 
specified, shall be rejected without any notice. 
the applicants shall bear the expense  incurred 
on the applications which are not duly and 
accurately filled. Keeping a photocopy of the 
application shall be useful  and the applicants 
shall ensure whether the completed application 
is consistent with the application given in this 
Notification . The application shall be rejected 
in case of such inconsistency.
 (b) all the applicants who have paid the examination 
fees and applied on or before the closing date, 
shall be allowed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations to sit for the competitive 
examination, on the assumption that only the 
applicants who are qualified and eligible as 
per the Gazette Notification have applied for 
the post. the issuance of an admission card to 
sit for the competitive examination shall not 
be an acknowledgement that the applicant has 
met the qualifications required for the post. The 
candidacy of the applicants shall be cancelled 
if disclosed disqualified at the interview, where 
the qualifications are scrutinized as per the 
Gazette Notification.
 (c) “competitive Examination for the Recruitment 
for the Post of Assistant Research Officer of the 
Parliament of Sri Lanka – 2017(2018)” shall be 
indicated on the upper left hand corner of the 
envelope.
 (d) The duly filled applications shall be sent through 
registered post  to the following address on or 
before 6th of march, 2018;
  commissioner General of Examinations,
  organization and foreign Examinations branch,
  department of Examinations,Sri Lanka,
  P.o. box 1503,
  colombo.
11. Sitting for the examination :
 (I) Receipt of the application shall not be notified. 
a newspaper notice shall be published by the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, once 
the admissions are issued to the applicants. 
in case of non-receipt of the admission after 
a lapse of 2 or 3 days from the newspaper 
notice to the effect, it should be informed to 
the department of Examinations, as per the 
notice. the name of the examination, full 
name of the candidate, National identity card 
number and the address should be indicated at 
such inquiry. for the applicants residing out 
of Colombo, it would be beneficial to inquire 
through sending a fax to the fax number given 
in the advertisement, in the form of a request 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
232
including the relevant details and a fax number to reach the applicant so that a copy of the admission can be 
sent through a fax. further, retaining copies of the application, receipt of payment of examination fees, and 
the receiptfor Registered Post, would be advantageous for the applicant to confirm any detail required by the 
department of Examinations.
 (b)  The applicants shall be required to get their  signatures certified  in the application and the admission card. 
This certification should attested by the respective Heads of the Departments or any other officer authorized 
by him in case of applicants who apply through an institution and by a  Principal of a school/ Retired  officer, 
Grama Niladari of the division, Justice of Peace, commissioner of oaths, atorny-at-Low, Notary Public, 
Commissioned officer of the armed forces, Officer of the public service , provincial public service or permanent 
staff grade receiving an annual consolidated salary of Rs.240360/= or above, a chief  incumbent of a buddhist 
temple or a member of clergy  in charge of any other religious institution in case of applicants who do not apply 
through the institution. The applicant shall sit for the examination in  the centre specified for him  and produce 
the admission card with attested signature  to the chief invigilator at the examination centre at the first instance. 
the applicants who fail to produce the admission card shall not be allowed to sit the examination. 
 (c)  examination results.– the list of results will be prepared on merit based on the aggregate marks obtained at the 
written exam according to the paragraph 6 of this notice and the structured interview.  action will be taken by 
the department of Examinations to individually inform the results to all the applicants who sat for the written 
examination to publish them in the website : www.results.exams.gov.lk , after the submission of the results of 
the written examination to the Secretary General of Parliament.
12. in the event of   establishing  the identity of the candidates, one of the following documents should be  submitted 
to the   chief invigilator :
 (i) a    valid National identity card,  issued by the  department of   Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a    valid passport. 
13.  issuance of an admission card to a candidate shall not be deemed   as he or she is eligible to sit for the 
examination.  the candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the examination and the issuance of results.in case of any violation of examination rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations by any candidate shall be liable to be penalized
14. the secretary General of parliament shall decide on any information not mentioned in this Gazette Notification. 
all the candidates   are required to abide by the general rules and regulations of examination that have been indicated in this 
Notification. 
15 .in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil or English Languages on this Gazette Notification the 
Sinhala text shall prevail  . 
 W.b.d  
daSSanayake,
 Secretary General of the Parliament.
Parliament of Sri lanka,
Sri  Jayawardhenapura Kotte,
06th march 2018.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
233
Specimen Application 
(For Office Use)
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR REcRuitmENt to tHE PoSt of aSSiStaNt RESEaRcH 
officER iN  PaRLiamENt of SRi LaNKa – 2017 (2018)
  1.0 1.1 medium- medium of examination
    Sinhala  - 2
    t amil  - 3
    (write the relevant number in the box)
2.0   Personal details  :
  2.1 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
   (in capital letters) (eg. HERatH mudiyaNSELaGE SamaN KumaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
  2.2 Name with the last name first followed by the initials of the other names :
   (in capital letters)  :–––––––––––––.
   (Eg. GuNaWaRdHaNa, H.m.S.K.)
  2.3 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/ tamil)
  2.4 Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
   (in capital letters) (admission card will be posted to this address.)
  2.5 Permanent address:–––––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala / tamil) :–––––––––––––.
  2.6 Sex :
   male - 0   (write the relevant number in the box)
   female  - 1
  2.7 civil Status :
   Single  - 1   (write the relevant number in the box)
   married - 2
  2.8 National identity card Number :
  2.9 date of birth : y ear month date
  2.10 Date as at 06.03.2018 on which qualifications should be fulfilled -
     
   y ears months   days   
  2.11 mobile Number :     

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
234
3.0 Educational Qualifications -
 3.1 details of G.c.E (o/L) / (a/L) examinations-
  y ear: .................................  
  index No: .................................... 
 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
  
 3.2  details of the degree  :
 (i) date of the degree :––––––––––––. 
 (ii) university/ institute  :––––––––––––.
 (iii) degree  :––––––––––––.
 (iv) Subjects  :––––––––––––.
 (v) Grade  :––––––––––––.
  upper / Lower division  :––––––––––––.
 (vi) date of Validation of the degree  :––––––––.
4.0 Paste the receipt firmly :
 I. Office where the payment was made :––––––––.
 ii. amount paid :–––––––––.
 iii. date of payment :–––––––––.
 iV . Receipt number :–––––––––.
Paste the receipt here.
(Retaining a copy of the receipt would be advantages)
5.0 Certificate of the applicant :
i do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me 
above, are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief and the relevant receipt numbered ……………….. 
dated ………………………………….. for the payment of 
examination fee is also attached hereto.  i agree to abide by 
the rules and regulations of the examination and to comply 
with any decision taken to cancel my candidacy prior, during 
and after the examination if I am found disqualified in terms 
of the conditions of the examination.
    
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––––.
06. attestation of the signature of applicant (Should be as 
in the Gazette Notification) :
i, certify that............................................. (full name) 
who submits this application is personally known to me and 
that he/ she has paid the due examination fees and pasted 
the relevant receipt such payment on this application form 
and that he/ she placed his/ her signature in my presence on 
...............................
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature.
date  :––––––––––––––.
Full name of the officer who attests the signature :–––––––. 
designation :––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––.
(Official stamp)
07. attestation of the Head of the institution - (only for 
the applicants employed in the Public / Provincial state/ 
state corporation services.)
  mr. / mrs. / miss ............................................................
..........................Who submits this application is serving as a 
.......................................................................... this ministry 
/ department /  institution  and i recommend and forward his 
/ her application form. Necessary arrangements can be made 
to release him / her from service of this institution if selected 
to the above post.
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of institution.
Name :––––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––––.
(Official stamp)
02–337

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
235
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 rs.  cts.  rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 rs.  cts.  rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2018
236
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of Sri lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of Sri lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   month Date of Publication last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2018
 fEbRuAR y 02.02.2018 friday — 19.01.2018 friday 12 noon
  09.02.2018 friday –– 26.01.2018 friday 12 noon
  16.02.2018 friday –– 02.02.2018 friday 12 noon
  23.02.2018 friday –– 09.02.2018 friday 12 noon
 mARCh 02.03.2018 friday — 16.02.2018 friday 12 noon
  09.03.2018 friday –– 23.02.2018 friday 12 noon
  16.03.2018 friday –– 02.03.2018 friday 12 noon
  23.03.2018 friday –– 09.03.2018 friday 12 noon
  29.03.2018 thursday –– 16.03.2018 friday 12 noon
 APRIL 06.04.2018 friday — 23.03.2018 friday 12 noon
  12.04.2018 thursday –– 29.03.2018 thursday 12 noon
  20.04.2018 friday –– 06.04.2018 friday 12 noon
  27.04.2018 friday –– 12.04.2018 thursday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2018.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.