

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2016.12.06
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2016
Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
¡ºø —ïÊË  EXTRAORDINARY
¡â¨ 1996/26 – 2016 foieïn¾ ui 06 Éæ¾ø wÕyrejdod – 2016.12.06
No. 1996/26 – TUESDAY, DECEMBER  06, 2016
( Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Strategic Development Projects Act,  No. 14 of 2008
Notification Under Section 3(4)
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(4) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 as amen ded,
I, Malik Samarawickrama, being the Minister in charge of the subject of Development Strategies and international Trade, in consultation with
the Minister in charge of Finance, do by this Notification.
(1) The Noification identifying the Project for the development of Colombo Port City in two phases for the construction of
wave protection breakwater, land reclamation, ground improvement, relevetment, canals to connect seawater, artery
roads, utilities and for transfer or lease of any leasehold rights to the prospective buyers with a total investment of United
State Dollars One Thousand Three Hundred and Thirty Seven Million ($ 1,337 Mn.) or an equivalent amount in any other
convertible currency (''project") which will bring significant economic and social benefit to the country by creating a new
land in extent (269 Hectares) and attract strategic importance, in view of the substantial contribution as a Strategic Develop-
ment Project for the purposes of the aforesaid act, was published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1985/5 dated 19
th
September, 2016.
(2) In terms of Sub-section (3) of Section (3) of the aforesaid Act, the approval of Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained  to
declare the project for the development of Colombo Port City in two phases for the construction of wave protection
breakwater, land reclamation, ground improvement, revetment, canals to connect seawater, artery roads, utilities and for
transfer or lease of any leasehold rights to the prospective buyers with a total investment of United State Dollars One
Thousand Three Hundred and Thirty Seven Million ($ 1,337 Mn.) or an equivalent amount in any other convertible
currency as a Strategic Development Project.
(3) The above stated Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as the " Project for the development of Colombo
Port City in two phases for the construction of wave protection breakwater, land reclamation, ground improvement,
revetment, canals to connect seawater, artery roads, utilities and for transfer or lease of any leasehold right to the
1A

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2016.12.06
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2016
prospective buyers" and the Project Company to undertake the project is M/s CHEC PORT CITY COLOMBO
(PRIV ATE LIMITED).
(4) The Project Company shall implement and commence operations within Eight (8) years commencing form the date of the
Third Supplementary Agreement is signed between the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and the Project Company.
(5) The Exemption form enactments specified is Schedule- I to this order shall be applicable to the Project Company.
(6) The Project Company and M/S China Harbour Engineering Company Limited ("CHEC") being the contractor for engineer-
ing, procurement and construction for the Project, are subsidiary Companies of M/S China Communications Construction
Company Limited. Therefore, the concessions morefully described in the Schedule II below under the provisions of
Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 as amended shall be applicable for the Project Implementation Period
of the project for profits to be generated through this Project by M/S China Harbour Engineering Company Limited.
SCHEDULE  I
1). The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006
(i) Corporate Income Tax
The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act. No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on the Project
Company on the profit and income generated from the activities from the  said Project shall not apply for a period
of Twenty - five (25) years ('' Tax Exmption Period).
The said tax exemption period shall commence from the year in which the Project Company makes its taxable profits
or six (06) years after commencement of construction of the project, whichever occurs earlier, excluding the period
between 6th March, 2015 and 12th August 2016, the later date being the date on which the Tripartite Agreement
between the project Company, the Government of Sri Lanka and the Urban Development Authority was sighned.
Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period income tax in respect of the profits and income
of the project company shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in
force.
(ii) T ax on Dividends
Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit shall be exempted from the income tax during the
said tax exemption period of Twenty five (25) years and one (01)  year thereafter.
(iii) withholding Tax
The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following :
(a) On interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees paid to consultants,
(b) On Management fees and royalty payments provided however that toatal of such chargers does not exceed
three per centum (3%) of the gross operating revenue;
(c) On marketing fees, provided however the total of such fees does not exceed one point five per centum (1.5%)
of the gross operating revenue, and
(d) On incentive management fees, provided however the total of such fees does not exceed ten per centum (10%)
of the gross operating profit.
(iv) PAYE Tax
The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from payment of Pay As You Earn Tax (PAYE)
subject to a restriction  that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number of (30) employees at any
given time. Subject to such ceiling, this exemption is available for expatriate project implementation staff during the
project implementation period and for expatriate project operational staff for a period of ten (10) years from the date
of commencement of commercial operations of the project. Provided however, no single employee shall be given this

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2016.12.06
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2016
exemption for a peirod in excess of Ten (10) years. Further, the Project Company shall be required to gradually
replace expatriate staff with local employees on a best efforts basis.
2) Value Added Tax (V AT) Act, No. 14 of 2002
All imports of project related goods and local purchases of project related goods or services required for the implementation of the
project as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, shall be exempted from the payment of Value Added Tax (V A T),
during the project implementation period of Eight (08) years. Any contractor or a sub - contractor who supplies to such contractor,
to the Project, will be entitled to the deferment as permitted in the V AT Act.
The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT as provided in the V AT Act, No. 14 of 2002 upon the completion of
the Project Implementation Period.
Provided however, transfer or lease of any leasehold rights to the project company or by the project company to the prospective
buyers in accordance with applicable law, shall be exempted from the payment of V AT.
3) Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL) Act, No. 18 of 2011
The Project Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL), on the
project related goods as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka imported during the Project Implementation Period of
Eight (08) years. The exemption shall be applicable on direct imports by the project Company for the Project or on imports by a
contractor or  sub - contractor for the purposes of the project, so long as the consignee of such goods is the Project Company,
subject to the conditions referred to in item No. (08) below.
4) The Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
The Project Company/ Contractors shall be exempted from Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy Imposed under the
Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005 in realation to the project during the project implementation period.
5) Excise (Special Provision) Act, No. 13 of 1989
Import of Project related items other than the vehicles use for travelling, as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall
be exempted from the Excise Duty Payment during the Project Implementation period.
6) The Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979
Import of project related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Shall be exempted from the payment of CESS
during Implementation Period of eight (08) years.
7) Nation Building Tax (NBT)
The Project Company/ Contractors/sub - contractors shall be exempted from Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy
Imposed under the Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005 in realation to the project.
8) Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items (Customs  Ordinance - Chapter 235)
Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all project related items in capital nature and any other project related items
as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka imported in the name of the Project Company implementing the project in
relation to items so imported solely for the purpose of the project whether directly imported by the project Company or sourced
through the contractors or sub - contractors to the constractors provided that the goods consigned in the name of the Project
Company other than the items mentioned in the Negative List within the project implementation period of Eight (08) years. The
Items in the Negative List will also be exempted from the Customs Duty provided such items are either not wholly produced in
Sri Lanka or are unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and time lines for the completion of the project.
As such, in general, project related goods could be imported through a Contractor or a Sub - Contractor in respect of the proje ct
within the project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years as provided above, only if the Project Company is named as the
consignee of such goods. Hence, if such imports have been done along with any other imports, the Project Company shall be solely
responsible to ensure that the concessions noted herein shall be available only to project related goods of the Project Company. If
so, for any reason this condition has been violated, taxes and levies payble under laws and regulations prevailing at the time shall
apply to all goods that do not form part of Project related goods for the project and such taxes shall become payable forthwith. It
is noted that any personal effects imported by the Project Company for the private/personal use of any employee, consultant or
any other of the Project Company shall not be treated as project related goods. It is further noted that in view of the exemptions/
concessions granted to the Project Company under the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, no tenant or any other
party associating with the Project or the Project Company will be granted any exemption or concession in view of or consequent
to such association in connection with the project.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2016.12.06
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2016
SCHEDULE II
(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006
i) Corporate Income Tax
The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on the China Harbour
Engineering Company Ltd ("CHEC") on the profit and income generated from the activities form the said Project shall not
apply for a period of Eight (08) years.
The said Tax Exemption Period of Eight (08) years shall commence from the year in which the China Harbour Engineering
Company Ltd ("CHEC") commences the construction of the Project, but excluding the period between 6th March, 2015 and
12th August 2016, the later date being the date on which the Tripartite Agreement between the Project Company, the
Government of Sri Lanka and the Urban Development Authority was signed.
Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period of Eight (08) years, income tax in respect of the profits
and income of the China Harbour Engineering Company Ltd ( "CHEC") shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the
Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.
M
ALIK SAMARAWICKRAMA, MP
Minister of Development Strategies
and International Trade.
Colombo,
05th December, 2016.
12 - 855
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA