

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'01'27
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 27.01.2017
13
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 14
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2004- 2017 ckjdß ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'01'27                                                                                                               
No. 2,004 - FRIdAy , JANUARy 27,  2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
13
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  17th Febuary  2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  03rd February, 2017.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2017
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.–  Revocation of Irrevocable Deeds of Gift on the ground of Gross Ingratitude Bill was published as a supplement to the Part 
II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 20, 2017. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'01'27
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 27.01.2017
14
miscellaneous Lands notices
Land Commissioner General's No. :4/10/47830. 
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's No. :EP/28LB/Les/tri/
Ku/70.  
noTIfIcATIon    mADe    unDeR   STATe    
LAnD  ReGuLATIon no. 21 (2) 
It is hereby notified that for the purpose of Commercial,   
Mr. Sinnaththamby  Shanmugarajah  has requested on lease 
a  state land  containing in extent about 20 Acre 02 Rood 26 
Perches out of extent   marked as depicted in the  Tracing  No. 
2024 and  situated  in the  village of Senthoor with  belongs 
to the  Grama Niladhari division  of No. 237 B  Senthoor  
coming  within the area of Authority of  Kuchchaveli  
divisional  Secretariat in the  district of  trincomalee. 
02. Given below  are  the boundaries of the land  requested : 
On the North by  :   Seashore reservation  ; 
On the  East by  :  Lot No. 442 ;  
On the South by  :  Lot No. 340 ; 
On the West by  :  Lot No. 336.  
the land requested can  be given  on lease for the  
necessary purpose. therefore  the  Government  has intended 
to  lease out the  land  subject to other  Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions : 
 (a)  Terms of the  lease   .- thirty years (30) (from 
23.11.2016);
  The  annual rent of the lease .-  4% of  the commercial 
value of the  land as per  valuation of the  Chief  Valuer 
for the Year  2016. This  amount of the  lease must  
be quinquennially revised in such  a manner  that  the 
amount as a  result of the revision will be  not less  
than  50% of the  amount that  just  preceded.  
  Premium.-  treble of the  annual amount of the  lease;
 (b)   the lessees  must, within one year of the  commencement 
of the lease, develop  the  said  land  in such  a manner 
as to captivate the  mind  of the  divisional Secretary;
 (c)   the lessees must not use this  land  for any purpose  
other  than  for the   Commercial activities ;  
 
 (d)  this  lease must  also  be subject to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated and  imposed by the divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  committee/Board of Investment of  
Sri Lanka and by other  institutions;
 (e)   the Buildings Constructed must  be maintained in a  
proper state of repair; 
 (f)  Once the land  is given on lease and in  the event of 
failure on the part  of the  lessees  to substantiate within  
the specified time  frame the  purpose for  which  the  
land was obtained action will be taken to  terminate 
the  lease; 
 (g)  No sub-leasing can be done  until the  expiry of a  
minimum period of 05 years; 
 (h)   Payment  of the  lease must  be regularly made and if  
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse. 
If  acceptable reasons are not  submitted  to me  in writing  
within six  weeks  of the  date  which  this  Gazette is 
published in the 
Gazette  to the  effect that this  land must not  
be given on lease, the land  will be leased out   as requested. 
 W. ayodhya. S. JayaWardana, 
 Assistant  Land  Commissioner (Land),  
 for Land  Commissioner  General. 
Land  Commissioner General's  department, 
"Mihikatha Medura",  
Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Rd., Battaramulla.
27th  January,  2017. 
01-819
Land Commissioner General's No. :4/10/49910. 
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's No. :NCP//PLC/L4/
Medha/4.  
noTIfIcATIon    mADe    unDeR   STATe    
LAnD  ReGuLATIon no. 21 (2) 
It is hereby notified that Mr. Digallage Don Chaminda, 
Jagath  has requested on lease a  state land  containing in 
extent about 05 Acres  out of extent   marked  Lot No. 01 as 
depicted in the  Tracing  No. F. V . P. 65 situated in the  village 
of Siyambalagaskada with  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari 
Division  of No. 50, Yakawewa  coming  within the area of 
Authority of  Medhawachchiya  divisional  Secretariat in 
the  district of  Anuradhapura. 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'01'27
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 27.01.2017
15
02. Given below  are  the boundaries of the land  requested : 
On the North by  :   State Land  ; 
On the  East by  :  State Land ;  
On the South by  :  State Land ; 
On the West by  :  Access Road and State land.  
the land requested can  be given  on lease for the  
necessary purpose. therefore  the  Government  has intended 
to  lease out the  land  subject to other  Government approved 
conditions : 
 (a)  Terms of the  lease   .- thirty years (30) (from 
23.11.2016 to 30 years);
  The  annual rent of the lease .-  4% of  the commercial 
value of the  land as per  valuation of the  Chief  Valuer 
for the Year  2016. This  amount of the  lease must  
be quinquennially revised in such  a manner  that  the 
amount as a  result of the revision will be  not  less  
than  50% of the  amount that  just  preceded.  
  Premium.-  three times of the  annual rent  of the  
lease;
 (b)   the lessees  must, within one year of the  commencement 
of the lease, develop  the  said  land  in such  a manner 
as to captivate the  mind  of the  divisional Secretary;
 (c)   the lessees must not use this  land  for any purpose  
other  than  for the   Commercial activities ;  
 
 (d)  this  lease must  also  be subject to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated and  imposed by the divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  committee/Board of Investment of  
Sri Lanka and by other  institutions;
 (e)   the Buildings Constructed must  be maintained in a  
proper state of repair; 
 (f)  Once the land  is given on lease and in  the event of 
failure on the part  of the  lessees  to substantiate within  
the specified time  frame the  purpose for  which  the  
land was obtained action will be taken to  terminate 
the  lease; 
 (g)  No sub-leasing can be done  until the  expiry of a  
minimum period of 05 years from 23.11.2016; 
 (h)   Payment  of the  lease must  be regularly made and if  
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto  
lapse. 
If  acceptable reasons are not  submitted  to me  in writing  
within six  weeks  of the  date  which  this  notice is published 
in the 
Gazette  to the  effect that this  land must not  be given 
on lease, the land  will be leased out   as requested. 
 S. a. eranthika W. kularathne, 
 Assistant  Land  Commissioner,  
 for Land  Commissioner  General. 
Land  Commissioner General's  department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura",  
Rajamalwatta Rd., Battaramulla.
27th  January,  2017. 
01-785 
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/50076.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No. Provincial/LC/L2/
Mahawa/L. t./4 (11).   
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the purpose of  Society,  
Galatabendiwewa thrift  and credit  co -  operative Society   
has requested on leasse a state land  containing in extent 
about 40 Perches  out of  extent  depicted  in the Plan  
prepared by to the  scale by colonial officer,from the land  
in extent of Rood  03 handed over to the  government by  
cancelling  the  title granted to E.  Krishantha Pradeep by 
the  notarial deed  No. 1555 mentioned in  Jayaboomi grant 
No.  l=re$m% 127134, through the plan  No F. V . P.  1638  
and situated in the  village of Ihala  Kumbukwewa   with  
belongs to the Grama Niladhari  division  of No. 1295,  
Galatabendiwewa  coming  within the  area  of authority 
of Kobaiganae divisional Secretariat in the  district of 
Kurunegala. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Land of E. Krishantha Pradeep  
Kumara   ;
On the East by : Babunugama Pannawa Road  ;
On the  South by :  Land of  J. H. Gunarathbanda  ;
On the West by : Land  of E. Krishantha Pradeep 
Kumara.

<!-- page 4 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'01'27
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 27.01.2017
16
03. the land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions : - 
 (a)  Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30),  ( 03.11.2016 
onwards) ;
   The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the   currently 
prevailing Undeveloped value of  the   land  as per  
valuation  of  the chief valuer for  the  year  2016 
approved by Hon Minister. 
  Premium .- No;
 (b) the  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the divisional Secretary ;
 (c) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for  the Purpose of Society ; 
 (d) this  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  committee/Board of Investment 
of  Sri Lanka   and   by other  Institutions;
 (e) the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair ;
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done  until the expiry  of 
a  minimum period of 05 years from the  date of 
03.11.2016  ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse; 
04. If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date which this  notice is 
published  in the  Gazette to the effect that this land must not 
be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
Pubudi PremadaSa  ,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
"Mihikatha Medura",   Land Secretariat, 
No. 1200/6,   
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
27th  January, 2016.
02-783
PRINtEd  At  tHE  dEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRINtING,  SRI  LANKA.