

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
(Dr.) MALANI FONSEKA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. J. R. P . Sooriyapperuma, M. P .
on May 26, 2011
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the (Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation
——————
——————
[Bill No. 107]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on May 09, 2011)

<!-- page 2 -->

1(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation
(Incorporation)
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  (DR.) MALANI  FONSEKA  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS  an  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the
“Dr. Malani Fonseka Foundation” has heretofore been formed
in Colombo, for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation  according  to  the  rules  agreed  to  by  its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters  for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may by cited as the “(Dr.) Malani Fonseka
Foundation (Incorporation)” Act, No.   2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “(Dr.)
Malani Fonseka Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”), with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the “(Dr.) Malani
Fonseka Foundation” and by that name may sue and be
sued in all courts, with full power and authority to have, and
use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to identify aesthetics, performance and traditional
arts and crafts in Sri Lanka and to improve them in
quality, to present creations and introduce them to
the international level and to improve academic,
social and economic condition of the artistes
engaged in those activities ;
Preamble.
5
10
15
20
Incorporation
of the
(Dr.) Malani
Fonseka
Foundation.
The general
objects of
the
Corporation.
20
Short title.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation
(Incorporation)
2
(b) to ensure welfare of the children and the women
through social, economical and cultural fields ;
(c) to act for the welfare of senior citizens of Sri Lanka ;
(d) to strengthen Higher Education Institutions, to
encourage researches and scholarships for the
promotion of Higher Education ;
(e) to assist for the study of Sinhala, Tamil and English
to establish Information Certres in Sri Lanka for the
development and expansion of Information
Technology ;
(f) to develop agriculture, plantation and fisheries by
the use of modern technology to obtain maximum
benefits ;
(g) to make a sustainable development rural and
backward areas using their natural resources ;
(h) to provide lands and housing for those who lack
them, to provide buildings and other facilities for
schools which need them and to provide
infrastructure such as highways, electricity and
health facilities for various areas ;
(i) to promote and encourage humanity, sports,
literature and aesthetics spiritual activities ;
(j) to encourage social and cultural activities for the
integration and strengthening of various ethnic
groups and nationals in Sri Lanka ;
(k) to protect and make known human rights,
humanities, fundamental rights and democracy ;
(l) to provide financial assistance and other necessary
facilities for the achievement of above objects ;
5
10
15
25
20

<!-- page 4 -->

3(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation
(Incorporation)
(m ) to encourage, prepare and organize exhibitions,
sermons, seminars, discussions, group discussions,
workshops, debates, tours both local and foreign
and to publish and distribute books, magazines and
news papers for the achievement of the objects of
the Corporation ; and
(n) to co-ordinate with similar and intimate,  internal
foreign individuals and organizations and to
organize meetings, discussions and seminars for the
furtherance of those objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and a Secretary, Treasurer
and another nine members elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Dr. Malani Fonseka Foundation shall be the Chairman of
the Board of Directors for life.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors, a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy and such new member shall hold office for a period
of four years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion of furtherance of
General
Powers of
the
Corporation.
5
10
15
25
20
30
Management
of the
Affairs of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation
(Incorporation)
4
the objects of the Corporation or anyone of them including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise money with or without security, to receive or
collect grants and donations, to invest its funds and to
engage, employ terminate servants required for the carrying
out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the members and by votes
of at least two-thirds of the members present and voting, to
make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
or any other written law, for all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) classification of membership, admission, withdrawal,
explusion or resignation of members and membership
fees payable ;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
(c) the appoinment, powers, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors ; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to, amended or rescinded in like manner at a like
meeting, as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
25
20
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation
(Incorporation)
7. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to,
the Association on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporations shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full powers to sell mortgage, lease
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
Debts due
by and
payable to
the Centre.
5
10
15
25
20
30
Funds of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable
and
immovable.
Limitation
of liabilities
of members.
Property
remaining
on
dissolution.

<!-- page 7 -->

(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation
(Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
25
20
Seal of the
Corporatiaon.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
institutions, having objects similar to those of the
Corporation and which is, or are, by its rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expent by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by auditor or auditors
appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of persons as may by provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
14. Nothing contained in this Act  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming, by, from, or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of
the Rights of
the Republic
and others.

<!-- page 8 -->

7(Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.