

<!-- page 1 -->

323 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022.12'23
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2022
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th January, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th December 2022.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
G
ANGANI  LIYANAGE,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2022.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
323 B 82412 - 353 (12/2022)
PAGE PAGE
 Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... 324
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices ....   326
wxl 2"312 - 2022 foieïn¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2022.12'23
No. 2,312 - DECEMBER 23, FRIDAY , 2022
N. B. - Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2311 of 16.12.2022 was not published.             

<!-- page 2 -->

324  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022.12'23
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2022
Notice of Fiscal's Sales
Public (Property) Auction Sale
IN THE COMMERCIAL HIGH COURT
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC,
No. 21, Sir Raseek Fareed Mawatha,
Colombo 01. 
Branch Ofﬁ ce and/or Business Place
Referred and called as "Kotahena Branch"
situated at No. 198, George R. De Silva
Mawatha, Colombo - 13.
........................Plaintiff
Vs
01. Colombo Marine (Private) Limited,
No. 78/4, Wickramasinghe Pura,
Battaramulla.
02. Shantha Kumara Thenuwara
No. 78/2, Wickramasinghe Pura,
Battaramulla.
......................Defendants
For the purpose of this Mortgage Case appeared by the Legal Representative duly appointed pertaining to the Estate of the 
deceased Lalitha Sellahewage of No. 216, Temple Road, Maradana, Colombo - 10.
Commercial High Court Case No. CHC/221/2015/MR
Plaintiff, 1st and 2nd Defendants duly reported to your honors court that both the parties reached to the settlement of this case 
in terms of settlement conditions entered to the case bearing No. CHC/221/15/MR in the Commercial High Court, according 
to that it is hereby ordered and decreed that this case reached to a settlement as per the said settlement conditions in the 
aforesaid manner. It is hereby ordered and decreed that judgement shall be entered in favour of Plaintiff against the 1st and 
2nd Defendants jointly and separately as pleaded in the prayer of the Plaintiff in terms of the decree of this case dated 29th 
September 2017. Thus, (a) it is hereby ordered and decreed that; should pay and recovered total sum of Rs. 7,122,207.32 
together with annual interest at the annual interest rate of 15% based on the balance capital amount of sum of Rupees 
6,686,080/- from 1st day of July, 2021 until the total sum paid in full. (b) it is hereby ordered and decreed that based on in 
terms of Mortgage Bonds, namely Mortgage Bond bearing No. 3733 dated 14th September 2005, Mortgage Bond bearing 
No. 1714 dated 26th April 2006, Mortgage Bond bearing No. 5527 dated 24th July 2007, which are marked as C1, C2 and C3 
respectively and execution of these mortgage bonds together with right of ways morefully described in the schedule hereto 
together with all estates, interests, titles, rights, assignee relations, ownerships and claims for the Defendants above named 
on behalf of the against the lands and buildings/premises morefully described in the schedule hereto together with all rights, 
interests, privileges, servitudes and afﬁ liates of the said properties or in connected to said properties or each and every part 
of said properties hereof and land and premises and everything else thereon on the said land and premises, and all the rights 
and  entitlements unto the 1st and 2nd Defendants pertaining to the said land and premises in order to perform the decree 
entered into this case together with other properties of the Defendants which is possible to legally seized and sell, shall be 
obliged and possible to execute in order to recover the aforesaid sum of money. (c) It is hereby ordered and decreed that in 
case of amount which is decreed in this case insuf ﬁ cient to perform the said decree, the proceeds received from selling the 
said land and premises which is morefully described in the schedule hereto in order to execute the aforesaid mortgage bonds 
which are marked as C1 to C3 respectively, Plaintiff hereby entitled to seized and sell other properties of the 1st and 2nd 

<!-- page 3 -->

325 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022.12'23
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2022
Defendants which is possible to legally seized and sell in order to recover the sum of amount which is recovered under the 
said decree entered into this case.
(d) This honors court hereby ordered and decreed that, in the event of Defendants above named default (evade) to aforesaid 
amount, interest and cost of grants within two months period from the date of decree as per the decree declared by the honors 
court, the land and premises along with the right of ways morefully described in the schedule hereto and all rights, entitlements 
and interests of the Defendants and connected therein shall sell at the public auction based on the sale conditions approved by 
the honors court through authorized auctioneer after due prior notice as the said auctioneer think sufﬁ cient thereof. (e) This 
honors courts hereby ordered and authorized to the said Fiscal/Auctioneer as follows; This honors courts hereby ordered and 
decreed that, vested authority to; produced the said land and premises for sale at the appraised value at ﬁ rst; and if there are 
no bidders to purchase the said property at the said appraised value, produced the said land and premises for sale for the sum 
of monies to be recovered in terms of the decree statement at the time of commission being issued, and even if there are no 
bidders to purchase at the said sale, authority to sale to the highest bidder/bidders hereof. It is hereby ordered and decreed 
that, in the event of there is order made under and in terms of provisions of the Act, to be sale to said land and premises at the 
appraised value at ﬁ rst; and if the highest bid at the ﬁ rst sale of mortgaged land is less than the amount of the appraised value 
of the land as ﬁ xed under and in terms of provisions of the Act, the land shall not be sold at ﬁ rst and in such occasion  that 
the second sale of the land shall be held and even if there are no buyers to purchase the said mortgaged land at the appraised 
value at the said second sale, produced the said land and premises for sale for the sum of monies to be recovered in terms of 
the decree statement at the time of commission being issued, and even if there are no bidders in such sale, afterwards produced 
the mortgaged land to be sold to the next highest bidder or bidders in accordance with the provisions of the Act. It is hereby 
ordered and decreed that, grant permission to made bids to purchase the said lands and buildings by the Plaintiff or another 
person on behalf of the Plaintiff; and in the event of Plaintiff to be the Purchaser, Plaintiff shall entitle to credit advanta ge 
notes indicating the amounts of Plaintiff's claims and charges hereof. It is hereby ordered and decreed that. Fiscal/Auctioneer 
being authorized to execute and sign Transfer or Transfers in due formats as set out by law unto the name of Purchaser/
Purchasers; after the buyer or buyers of the said sale exercised/acted in accordance with the sales conditions thereof; if the 
purchaser is the Plaintiff; after submitting a court order which approved the credit advantage note issued in favour of the 
Plaintiff and in the event of Purchaser/Purchasers to be third party or parties; after the said parties produced  a court order  
or court orders indicating that, they have duly deposited the purchase price in your honour couts hereof. It is hereby ordered 
and decreed that, Fiscal to be authorized to duly handover the clear and vacant possession of the said mortgaged property 
which sold in the aforesaid manner, unto the purchaser or purchasers who purchased the said mortgaged land. It is hereby 
ordered and decreed that, proceeds (monies) received from the said sale to be used to settle the claims, interests and charges 
to be paid and settle to the Plaintiff hereof.
It is hereby ordered and decreed not to be continued to execute said authority unless otherwise order made by your honors 
court, upon the approval of the conditions of sale by this court, which was set out with comply to the said terms, and based on 
the execution  powers issued by this court, the following property, which is more fully described in the under noted schedule 
will be sold at the public auction at the spot, since the 1st and 2nd defendants failed to perform the decree of this case
Will be sold the land called "St. Thomas Watta" which is containing in extent 10.95 Perches and 09.05 perches together with 
buildings and everything else thereon by Public Auction at the spot, at No. 78/4, Wickramasinghe Pura, Battaramulla of the 
aforesaid Defendants of this 07th day of Januray, 2023 at 11.30 a.m.
Entrance (Accessibility)
You will be reached to the access of this land and premises once you reached to Battaramulla Junction towards the Pelawatta - 
Pannipitiya Road and turn left approximately 500 meters before the Thalawathugoda Junction up to the Wickramasinghepura 
road and continue for about a 1KM up to ITN station turn right immediately after ITN and proceed about 10 meters up to the 
below property in the left side of the road.
Payment Method/Plan:-
As soon as the Public Auction coming to an end, purchaser should pay the following charges to the Auctioneer in cash 
(cheques will not be accepted).

<!-- page 4 -->

326  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022.12'23
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2022
Miscellaneous Notices
AN  ACT  FOR  INCORPORATING  THE  C. JINASENA  FOUNDATION
I, Udayana Kirindigoda, hereby inform that I intend to present at the Parliament a draft Act called An Act for incorporating 
"the C. Jinasena Foundation" under the standing order No. 53 of the standing orders of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The purpose of the draft Act will constitute the incorporation of the said Foundation which has the following objects:
 1. Assisting in resolute development by way of environment conservation and making the general public aware of the 
related matters, conservation of the local species of herbs and plants in a way that will protect and conserve them for 
the future ;
 2. Assisting the entrepreneurial and business communities for launching and maintaining programmes for creating and 
improving the opportunities for the skills development of youth by means of ﬁ rm and valid suggestions towards 
educational, technical and personal development ;
 3. Providing community services at times of calamities, disasters and national emergencies resulting especially from 
natural and human activities.
 U
DAYANA C. KIRINDIGODA,
 A Member of Parliament.
12-450
 1. 25% of the Purchase Price (25 per cent)
 2. All advertising expenses/charges
 3. Stamp Duty
 4. Announcing and Clerk Charges
 5. Professional Charges of the Auctioneer 2.5% from the purchase price.
 6. Any other taxes and charges imposed by the Local Authorities,
 7. Notary Charges
 8. Provincial Council Charges 1%
 9. Court charges, which comply with Rs. 150/- for the ﬁ rst Rs. 7,500/- and Rs. 5/- for the additional Rs. 1,000/- (post 
charges), and balance 75% (75 per cent) should be deposited in the account of Partition Case, bearing No. CHC/221/15/
MR in the Commercial High Court, within the ﬁ rst 30 days, and if the parties fail to do so, initial deposit money 
should not be refunded, and court will again conduct a public auction regarding the said property.
Visit for inquiries and search related deeds and other instruments (documents).
 A
JITH DASANAYAKE,
  Court Commissioner/Justice of Peace (All Island),
  Licensed Auctioneer and Valuer,
  B. B. A (UK), A. I. C. M. (Sri Lanka)
  E-mail: ajith.dasanayake@yahoo.com
  Tel: Mobile -072-1802348
12-628
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.