

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2020
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 2194$54 - 2020 iema;eïn¾ ui 23 jeks nodod - 2020'09'23
No. 2194/54  -  WEDNESDAY ,  SEPTEMBER   23,   2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A-  G 32978 -  22  (09/2020)
SPORTS  LAW,  No.  25  OF  1973
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Sports under the Section 41 and read with the Section 31 of the Sports Law, No.25
of 1973.
NAMAL RAJAPAKSA (M.P),
Minister of Youth and Sports.
At Colombo,
On 31st day of August, 2020.
Regulations
The Regulations No.03 of 1974 to control participants in sports representing Sri Lanka published in the Gazette No.130 dated
20 September 1974 which was amended by the Regulations No. 385/7A dated 20.01.1986 is hereby amended as follows.
1. The term “National Sport Selection Committee” should be inserted in place of the term “Selection Committee” of
the Regulations 6a (a), (b), (c), and (d).
2. Following new regulations are inserted after the 6
th Regulation.
6 (e)
The power of making recommendations in respect of appointing the Selection Committee of all National Sports
Associations / Federations should be vested only in National Sport Selection Committee and the particulars about
dates, venues, relevant details and selection criteria of the selection trials should be informed to the athletes before

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2020
2A
14 days. The copies of all such details should be presented in writing to the National Sport Selection Committee
also on the same day. The National Sport Selection Committee has the power to cancel the selection trials of the
National Sports Associations / Federations that do not present such particulars and the selection trials held on
personal discretion of the President / Secretary and Coaches of National Sports Associations / Federations as well
as the selections made thereby.
6 (f)
All National Sports Associations / Federations should present the selection criteria to the National Sport Selection
Committee 28 days before the conduct of selection trials; and the selection criteria should be published in their
official website and the website of the Ministry in charge of the subject of Sports. Also, at the end of the selection
trials, its results should be published in their official website and the correct name list of selected athletes should
be submitted for the recommendation of the National Sport Selection Committee. The objections, if any, on these
results of the competition should directly be presented to the National Sport Selection Committee. Subsequent to
considering the objections, list of verified results together with all the details should be published on the same day
in the official website of the National Sports Associations / Federations.
6 (g)
The participation of the project officer in charge of the relevant national sport at the Ministry of Sports should be
taken for the selection trials and the National Sport Selection Committee should be informed accordingly.
6 (h)
At the end of the selection trials, following particulars should be provided to the National Sport Selection Committee
in writing on that day itself or the following day :
(a) Attendance sheet of the selection committee members who participated for the selection trials certified by the
President or Secretary of the National Sports Association / Federation.
(b) Name list of athletes who participated for the selection trials signed by the selection committee members
of the National Sports Association / Federation.
(c) The record describing the way of selection of all athletes and the sheet of awarding marks for them certified
by the selection committee of the National Sports Association / Federation.
(d) Details of the events participated, the places achieved by the selected athletes and their correct name list
including the additional athletes.
6 (i)
The National Sport Selection Committee is vested with the power to conduct inquiries / investigations and to make
recommendations with reference to all appeals / complaints received by the national selection committee at the end of
the selection trials of the National Sports Associations / Federations.
6 (j)
The membership changes occurred in Executive Committees of all National Sports Associations / Federations should
be informed in writing to the National Sport Selection Committee.
6 (k)
When giving the appointment letters to the selection committees of the relevant National Sports Associations /
Federations recommended by the National Sport Selection Committee, a copy of it should be provided to the National
Sport Selection Committee by the Ministry of Sports.
6 (1)
A database on the details of the athletes of all national pools should be prepared, updated and maintained by the
National Sport Selection Committee. In that regard, the particulars of the talents and bio-data of all athletes in the

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2020
3A
pools of National Sports Associations / Federations should be referred to the National Sport Selection Committee.
The information on the inclusion / removal of athletes after naming the national pools should be provided to the
National Sport Selection Committee.
6 (m)
Nomination should not be given for any international tournament prior to obtain the approval of the National Sport
Selection Committee and an appropriate method should be followed in recommending coaches / managers / assistant
coaches / sport trainers / masseur for such international tournaments and the agreement of the National Sport
Selection Committee should be obtained thereto in line with below criteria:
(a) The contribution to the field of sports thus far,
(b) Their present performance in the field of sports,
(c) Knowledge, understanding and experience in the relevant sport,
(d) Skills shown as an athlete / coaches.
10 - 338
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.