

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1919$81 - 2015 cqks ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'06'19
No.1919/81  - FRIDAY   JUNE  19,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby
notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance, read
along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 10 of Sub-section (b) of Section 157, read along with
Sub-section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of
Kadugannawa from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
BY LAW RELATING TO SEIZURE OF THE ASTRAY ANIMALS
1. This by law is cited as the by law for prevention of damages caused by astray animals, and for seizure of such
animals and for making provisions for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto within the authority area
of Kadugannawa Urban Council.
2. A person specifically authorized by the Chairman may seize and take into his custody astray animals astraying at
a common place of the Urban Council authority area.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
2A
3. Animals seized under by law No. 02 shall be in charge of a caretaker and shall be brought to an animal shed set
up by the Council as soon as possible
4. No person whosoever shall obstruct or interfere with any individual who is empowered to carry out such duties as
in by law No. 02 above.
5. The care taker mentioned in this by law shall maintain a register of animals taken into the animal shed and such
register shall be kept as shown in schedule No. 01 herein.
6. The Council shall not be responsible for any harm caused to the animals put in the shed.
7. When releasing an animal put inside the animal shed, such owner or the guardian shall pay to the Urban Council,
the expenses incurred for seizing the animal and fees or, charges for food, any amount spent for treatment if the
animal was ill as reckoned by the Council and obtain a receipt for same.
8. No animal shall be released without a releasing order issued by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by the
Chairman and such animal shall be handed over only to the person mentioned in the releasing order.
9. When no owner or guardian come forward to claim an animal or when the prescribed fees have not been paid or
when the seized animal has been kept for not less than 10 days in the animal shed, the ownership of any such
animal shall be with the Council and shall sell by auction the animal in anyway determined by the Council to
recover the expenses incurred by the Council.
10. No animal subject to by law No. 10 shall be auctioned for meat.
11. If there is a balance amount of money left, realized from the auction sale, and after setling the expenses incurred
by the Council any remaining amount shall be paid to the owner or guardian of the animal if a request is made by
such person and such a request made after 06 months shall not be accepted and then such remaining amount
shall be credited to the Council fund.
12. Contravening any of the provisions of  these By-laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law having
jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine
imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under Sub-section (2)
of Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255).
13. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :
(a) “Council” means Kadugannawa Urban Council.
(b) “Chairman” means Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
(c) “Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council.
(d) “Astray Animals” means an ox or cow, pig, horse, phony or a goat.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
SCHEDULE  01
Date Particulars of animals No. of Signature of officer Signature of
(kind/colour) animals handing over officer taking over
07 - 279/1
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY   LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby
notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance, read
along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 03 of Section 157, read along with Sub-section (1) of
Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa from the
date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
BY LAWS RELATING TO OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR LEVYING TAXES
1. This by law is cited as the by law relating to  obtaining information for levying taxes from all business places and
industries maintained in the Kadugannawa Urban Council authority areas.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
4A
2. This by law is framed for the purpose of making provisions for obtaining periodical returns necessary for collection
of information required for preparing statements of accounts for levying taxes from all business places and
industries maintained with the Kadugannawa Urban Council authority areas.
3. All business and industrial institutions and organizations in the authority areas of Kadugannawa Urban Council
shall maintain correct and genuine statements, and reports of accounts according to recognized norms of
accounting systems.
4. It is the duty of every person, subject to business tax, to render all information and copies of such information
in respect of all financial transactions and accounts relating to such infromation when required by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized on that behalf.
5. All business information and periodical returns of financial accounts required from time to time by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, shall be prepared based on recognized norms of accounting systems.
6. All the financial reports and statements of accounts to be forwarded under by-law No. 05 shall be audited and be
certified by a recognized auditor.
7. Any person whoever, who receives a notice forwarded by the secretary or by an authorized officer of the
Kadugannawa Urban Council shall forwarded to the Secretary the information required by such notice with 14
days of the receipts of the notice.
8. Furnishing false information or failure to forward such information is an offence.
9. When it is required to check the information furnished in the periodical returns called for under by-law No. 5
it is lawful for the Chairman or the person authorized by him to visit such place of business or the premises of
the industry and check the authenticity of such information from books and documents therein.
10. Contravening of anyone or several or all the  by-laws  herein shall be an offence and when convicted in a court
of law having jurisdiction the maximum fine  imposable, and when such contravention is committed contineously
and when convicted or in the case of acontineous contravention after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing a such
contravention shall be as defined under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 (Chapter 255) of the Urban Council
Ordinance .
11. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 10 shall be deposited in the Council fund.
12. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by laws-
“Council” means the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Secretary”means the Secretary to the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman to inspect and supervise all activities
of any business place.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
07 - 279/2

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby
notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance, read
along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 09 of Sub-section (p) of Sub-section 157, read along
with Sub-section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of
Kadugannawa from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
B
Y LAW RELATING  TO  P REVENTING OBSTRUCTIONS OF  P A VEMENTS
1. This by law is cited as the by law for preventing and controlling obstructions caused on pavements of the Urban
Council authority area of Kadugannawa.
2. No person shall engage in the sale, keep for sale, heap up for sale, exhibit or keep for exhibition any material in any
manner on pavements.
3. No person shall drive or park any vehicle whatsoever on the pavement.
4. No person shall sit on a pavement or use it causing any obstruction.
5. No person without the written permission of the Chairman, shall repair a building adjoining a pavement or erect a
scaffold for such purpose, or erect a part of a roof of a building or erect a name board projecting towards a
pavement.
6. No person shall sell, bricks, rubbles, sand, timber or any other material or heap or stock such material on the
pavement for use any other manner.
7. There shall not be any harm affecting the right of claiming compensation for any damage or physical injury
caused to a pedestrian by breaking down any erection or repair upon a pavement or by falling or dropping any
material or  equipment used for the purpose and due to such erection or repair mentioned in the written permis-
sion given by the Chairman according to this by-law.
8. No person shall cause to flow on to the pavement waste water or rain water discharged from his building.
9. Where any driver of a vehicle or its owner or any owner of material, after giving oral or written notice by the
Chairman fails to remove such vehicle or material lying obstructing the pavement as stated under by-law No. 03
and 06, within the period mentioned in the notice, the Chairman or the officer authorized by him shall have the

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
6A
power to remove such garbage or store such items at a place to be specified without effecting the provisions
under by-law No. 13 herein.
10. No person has any right to claim compensation for any damage or loss caused due to any action taken under by-
law No. 09.
11. Where any damage or physical injury or accident occur due to parking of a vehicle or keeping any material on
the pavement without complying to provisions under by-law No. 09, the owner of the vehicle or material shall
have to pay compensation. The Chairman shall not be liable for payment of compensation.
12. No person shall damage or cause to do any damage or misuse or sit on the railings or limitary posts erected for
demarcating the pavements.
13. The Council shall maintain the pavement properly without causing any obstructions to pedestrians.
14. Contraventions of anyone or several or all the by laws here in shall be an offence and when convicted in a court
of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted, or in case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or
by an officer authorized by him, the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing a such
contravention shall be as defined under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 (Chapter 255) of the Urban Council
Ordinance.
15. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 14 shall be deposited in the Council fund.
16. For the purpose of these by-laws unless the context otherwise requires :
“Council” means the Urban Council of Kadugannawa.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Urban Council of Kadugannawa.
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council of Kadugannawa.
“Motor vehicle” applies the interpretations given in Motor V ehicle Ordinance.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
07 - 279/3
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY   LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance,
read along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial Councils,
under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 07 of Sub-section (u) of Section 157, read along with sub Section

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
(1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa
from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
B
Y LAW RELATING  TO  NOTICE BOARDS
1. This By Laws are for the purpose of regulating and controlling advertisements displayed as visible to a road
within the Kadugannawa Urban Council authority area and levying fees for such advertisements.
2. These By Laws are cited as the By Laws of Kadugannawa Ubran Council for regulating and controlling
advertisements and levying fees for such advertisements 02
3. No person shall display or cause to display any advertisement as visible to any road except upon a license issued
for the purpose by the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council 03
4. Advertisement means drawing on boards, banners, cutouts, aluminum and iron sheets, polythene, cloths or
papers displayed as visible to a highway, by road, Provincial Council road or Urban Council road or else any
other notice prepared using galvanized iron sheet, a notice put up at any place of a house, shop, hotel, wall,
parapet wall using letters to advertise a trading place, trading article, business, trade exhibition, carnival etc.,
and any special notice at festival occasions 04.
5. Every application for a license to display any advertisement shall be forwarded to the Chairman, in form shown
in the Schedule herein at least seven days before the date or which the display of advertisement is intended to be
commenced 05.
6. Every application forwarded under By Law No. 04, shall accompany following items. 06
(b) Written application addressed to the Secretary.
(c) Ground plan drawn on a scale in proportion to the situation of the erection displaying the advertisement.
(d) Drawing of the erection drawn on a scale not less than 1 : 1000 of the scale.
(e) Any amendments made in conformation of this By Law in the plan, drawing or in the specification.
(f) A copy of the advertisement drawn on a small scale, using all colours to be used for the advertisement to
be displaced.
(g) Plan showing situation of the advertisement proportionate to adjoining streets and main gound marks.
(h) Fees, duly published in the Gazette as resulted and determined by the Council.
(i) Any other information required for the Pradeshiya Sabha, for the purpose of granting approval to display
such an advertisement.
7. No person shall erect or caused to erect any board, bill board, notice board or any other erection for the
purpose of using for displaying an advertisement or propaganda notice within the Kadugannawa Urban Council
authority area except according to drawings and specification approved by the Chairman of the Kadugannawa
Urban Council and given upon a written documents.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
8A
8. Where an application under By Law No. 04 is approved by the Chairman of the Council, applicant shall not be
issued a license, until such time the specified fees, as per mentioned in the Gazette is paid and the size of the
name of the business place shall be determined by the Council.
9. Where a license issued to a person for displaying an advertisement, the Kadugannawa Urban Council shall
direct such person to insert the reference number of the advertisement and the name of the license holder in
every advertisement to be displayed by him.
10. The provisions of these By Laws shall not apply to any of the following advertisements, unless such advertisement
is an illuminated advertisement or sky sign.
(j) An advertisement relating to any entertainment, the net proceeds of which are to be used for any purpose
of charity.
(k) An advertisement relating to any entertainment to be held in the premises upon which such advertisement
is displayed
(l) An advertisement relating to a religious, political or public meeting.
(m) A “To Let” advertisement
(n) A “For Sale” advertisement
(o) Domestic name plate (the size of such  shall be determined by the Council)
(p) A name plate not 0.93 meters in area, used for professional purposes.
(q) An advertisement on a vehicle, used for trade purposes, displaying the nature of the trade or business and
name, address, telephone numbers of the owner of such vehicle.
11. No persons all,
I. Display an advertisement in such manner as to project over or across any street, road or by path,
carriageway ; or
II. Display an advertisement on any hoarding which exceeds more than 15 meters in height from the
ground ; or
III. Fixing or hanging from the facade of a building, abutting on any street or road and any name board of a
shop or an advertisement which the length exceeds beyond the limits of such building ; or
IV . Construction or erection in any manner, sky sign board without the prior approval of the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
12. No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed on any place of religious worship or any public building
or private or public garden or bridge or carriageway, telephone or electricity post side wall, bank, culvert,
mountain ridge or any river.
13. No person shall display any advertisement, unless such advertisement erected or constructed according to
specification approved by this Urban Council in any specifically defined area, passed by a resolution of the
Council and duly published in the Government Gazette.
14. No person shall in any street or within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
(i) Shall carry or cause to carry on a board, hoarding or flame work any advertisement for
display.
(ii) Shall not be lawful to use on any street or road, radio, gramophone, musical
instrument, bell or any other instrument for the purpose of displaying an advertisement
or for propaganda purpose of any trade article, without the permission of the Urban
Council.
15. (i) Where any advertisement is ugly or unsightly objectionable and harmful for public
behaviour, the Urban Council shall be written notice, direct the person causing the
display of such advertisement to stop such display within the time period specified
in such notice.
(ii) A person to whom a notice under Sub section (I) served, shall comply with such
notice within the time period specified therein.
16. The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for display of advertisements shall,
(i) Maintain such hoarding in a proper condition of repair and security of persons and,
(ii) Exhibit his name and address in clear and legible letters in a conspicuous position
on the front of such hoarding
17. No person shall deface or cause to be defaced any sign, mark, letter, word or numeral
which has been inserted by the Urban Couuncil on any advertisement, to show the payment
of the fee for the license to display that advertisement.
18. Contravening any of the provisions of these By-laws in an offence and when convicted in
a court of law having jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when
such contravention is committed continuously and when convicted or in the ease of
continuous contravention after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an officer
authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine
imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be a defined
under sub-Section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255)
19. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 18, shall be depoisted in the Council
fund.
20. It is lawful for the Council to remove without any prior notice, all advertisement defined
under By Law No. 04 herein, displayed within the Urban Coucnil authority area, unless
there is a license issued by the Council.
21. Where after receiving permission to display and advertisement and even if the period of
validity of a license remaing unexpected, a banner fixed on a wall or parapet wall and any
cutout, advetisement board find to be inclined, detached and fallen on the ground by wind
or defaced and discoloured and broken down and is ugly and objectionable in any form to
the beauty of the town, the owner of the such advetisement shall be served a notice and
direct him to rebuild it and mend it within 14 days and in default the Council shall take
action to remove the same. If the Council is caused to remove such advetisement after 14
days by employing its labourers, the Council shall not hold any responsibility regarding
such notice.
22. For the purpose of these By Laws, unless the content otherwise required :-

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
10A
 “Chairman” means Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Council” means Kadugannawa Urban Council.
 “Advertisement” means any word, letter, number, sign, place, board, notice, device, model or representation
used wholly or partly for the purpose of advetisement over or resting upon any land, building or structure.
23. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
SCHEDULE - I
APPLICATION  FORM  FOR  ERECTING  A NOTICE  BOARD
1. Name of the Applicant :
Address :
Advertisement Institution :
Telephone Number :
2. If an authorized agent appointed by the Institution regarding notice board
Name
Address
Telephone Number
3. Owner of the land
Name
Address
Assessment Tax No. and name of the road
consent of the land owner is obtained/not obtained
4. Advetising Board
Name of the business mentioned in the board
Size of the Board Length Width                    Squar Feet :
Last year obtained Licence
Forward a photograph copy of the notice board
5. A rough sketch of the place erecting the notice board (for easy access to the place)
......................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................
I do hereby certify that the details mentioned above are correct.
Signature
Date
For office use
Recommendation
Hon. Chairman's approval

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
SCHEDULE - 2
NUMBER OF SQUARE  FEET
Serial Nature of the Board Fees Rupees
No Less 03 to 07 07 to 14 14 to 30 year
than 03 days days
days
01 Advertisement on wall of 01 02 03 05 -
parapet wall
02 Cloth digital banner 25 34 45 50 75
03 Advertisement displayed 25 40 50 75 100
using sheets or timber
04 Illuminated advertisement 25 40 50 75 100
05 Advertisement using 25 40 50 75 100
electrical equipment
06 Plastic board or fiber 20 30 40 50 75
board advertisement
07 Ploythine or card 03 05 07 10 25
board advertisement
07 - 279/4
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby
notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance, read
along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 9 of Sub-section (p) of Sub-section 157, read along with
Sub-section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of
Kadugannawa from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
12A
BY LAWS RELATING  TO  FUNERAL SERVICE UNDERTAKING PLACES AND FUNERAL PARLOURS
01. This by law is cited as the by law for regulating supervising and for controlling funeral service undertaking
places or funeral parlours maintained within the Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa.
02. This by law is enforced for the purpose of regulation, supervision and control of funeral service undertaking
places and parlours within the Urban Council Authority area of Kadugannawa.
03. No person shall maintain a funeral service undertaking place or funeral parlour except under a license issued by
the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council authority area.
04. Every license issued under by law No. 03 shall be valid till the 31st December of the year for which it is issued
unless it is canceled earlier.
05. The Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council shall not issue a license to maintian a funeral service undertaking
centre unless the licensee fulfill the terms and conditions set out in this by law in the same manner as required.
i. here shall be a separate room for embalming corpses, in the building used as a funeral service undertaking
place and such room shall have at least nine sequare metre area of space for embalming a corpose of an
each individual. There shall also be an adequate platform built inside the room finished with glazed tiles
for embalming purposes.
ii. The embalming room shall always be kept separated from the exhibition hall of the funeral service
undertaking centre and outsiders shall not be allowed to enter therein without permission.
iii. There shall be ventilation wholes for the embalming room with an area not less that 1/7th of the square
area of such room so that its interior shall have sufficient ventilation.
iv. There shall be sufficient number of receptables to temporarily put in parts removed from the corpse
when embalming it and there shall also be available well closable imperious vessels, into which no files,
rats and other insets can enter, in order to drop blood liquid, effluvia flowing from the dead body or to
collect waste water if the corpse is to be washed when embalming and these liquid waste shall not be
allowed to flow into a common drain, road or open ground for any reason whatsoever.
v . When accommodation is made available to keep the dead body at the licensed place there shall be sufficient
number os seats available for the convenience of the persons visiting the place to pay last respects and
there shall also be adequate parking space to park vehicles of the persons arriving there.
vi. When exhibiting coffins and flower wreaths for sale the hall in which such items are exhibited shall be
covered with tinted glass preventing outside view.
06. Every person who require to have a license for a funeral service undertaking place, an application prepared
according to specimen from shown under 1st schedule herein, shall be forwarded to the Chairman of the Urban
Council Authority area of Kadugannawa.
07. All parts of a dead body removed when it is embalmed shall be buried in a pit having 1.2 metres depth from
ground surface if there is no order or verdict issued by a magistrate or coroner in respect of such dead body.
08. It shall be the duty of the licensee to act according to instruction given in a verdict or order of a magistrate or
coroner in respect of parts removed from a dead body when it is being embalmed.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
09. When sufficient space it not available at funeral service undertaking place to dispose of he waste matter mentioned
under by Law No. 07 herein, such wastes shall be buried in a pit of the depth mentioned under the said by Law
No. 7 in the cemetry of Kadugannawa Urban Council on payment of fees prescribed by such Council from time
to time.
10. The room used for embalming corpses shall always be kept clean spraying insecticides.
11. All employees serving in rooms used for embalming dead bodies shall be supplied with protective garments,
mouth gears and hald gloves in the manner recommended by the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council,
and it is the duty of the licensee to see that such employees wear such garments when they attend to any duty or
embalming corpses.
12. It is the duty of the license to get all the employees serving in the licensed place medically exmained at least once
a year.
13. The interior of a hearse or a vehicle used for transporting corpses shall be vaccum cleaned at least once a day
and be disinfected.
14. No polythene or any other non dicomposable material shall be used to cover the interior of a coffin used to keep
a dead body or to cover entire or part of the dead body except for any corpse which cannot be embalmed due to
serious injuries or due to any other reason.
15. No person whosoever shall being or allow to bring to a funeral service undertaking place, a corpse of a person
considered to have died due to cholera, plague, small pox, jaundice, or aids disease except on written permission
granted to the licensee by the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council subject to conditions to the imposed
by him.
16. Before accepting an order for emblaming a corpse and for organizing funeral arrangements a licensee shall not
accept a corpse for such purpose unless the proper death certificates in forwarded to him issued by the register
of deaths.
17. No person shall embalm or accept for emblaming a dead body, unless a report has been forwarded to him
regarding the post mortem held by a magistrate or inquest held by a coroner when such death is under suspicion
or when the dead body is in respect of a sudden death.
18. If there be any order issued regarding the performance of last rites of a dead body, in a verdict issued at a post
mortem held by a magistrate or in an inquest held by a coronor for the licensee be shall follow the instructions
issued in such order.
19. It is the duty of the licensee to keep or cause to keep the place where the dead body is exhibited for public respect,
clean and under sanitary condition.
20. No person whosoever shall do or allow to do anything that will cause any inconveience or any harassment to
residents of the neighbourhood living close to the premises of the funeral service undertaking place.
21. Contraventions of anyone or several or all the bylaws herein shall be an offence and when convicted in a court
of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted, or in case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing a such
contravention shall be as defined under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 (Chapter 255) of the Urban Council
Ordinance.
22. The fine imposed and the license fee charged under By Law No. 21, shall be deposited in the Council fund.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
14A
23. For the purpose of these by laws unless the context otherwise requires :
a) “Council” means the Urban Council of Kadugannawa
b) “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council
c) “Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of Kadugannawa Urban Council.
d) “Funeral service undertaking place” means a place where a dead body is embalmed enabling its to be
preserved or a place where a dead body is dressed for paying last respects or a place where a dead body is
kept for public respect on payments of a fee, until it is taken to a public cemetery for performing final rites.
e) “Embalming a dead body” means dressing and preparing a dead body of a person by embalming and
preserving it for paying last respects, dressing a dead body, and placing a dead body in a coffin and performing
any other services considered necessary.
f) “Part of a dead body” means limbs or such a part removed from a dead body or internal part of a dead body,
blood coming out or removed out from a dead body, or any other liquid effluvia, or any dress work at the time
of death or such garment or part of it or any bandage cloth, cotton or any other substance that was in a
wound or in the interior of the dead body of the deceased person for some reason or other.
24. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and the English texts of these by laws the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
07-279/5
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby
notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance, read along
with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has approved the
following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial Councils, under
Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 09 of Sub-section (g) of Section 157, read along with Sub-section (1) of
Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa from the date
of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
BY LAW RELATING  TO  OFFENSIVE TRADES, DANGEROUS TRADES AND OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROUS TRADES OR BUSINESS
1. These by-laws are enforced for the purpose of making provisions for regulating, supervision, controlling
offensive trades, dangerous trades and offensive and dangerous trades and for levying fees from such business
carried out within the Kadugannawa Urban Council authority areas.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
2. No person within the Kadugannawa Urban Council Authority limits shall conduct or maintain an offensive trade,
dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade, shown in the schedules herein, unless such person is in
possession of a license issued by the Chairman.
3. Every license issued shall be vaild until the 31st of December of the year for which it is issued unless such
license is cancelled earlier.
4. No person shall have the right to obtain a license for carrying out an offensive trade or dangerous trade or
offensive and dangerous trade, unless such premises and if any building thereon to be used for the purpose, do
not conform to following conditions.
(a) Premises shall be in good repaired condition and shall have proper ventilation and lighting and every
room when opened, the area of the windows fixed shall be less than 1/15 of the floor area of the room.
(b) Height of every part of the walls of every room shall not be less than 2.14 metres and be built with bricks,
rubble stones, kabok, bricks, or with cement block and inner wall shall be cement plantered at least to a
height of 2 meters from the floor, and the remaining portions of the wall shall be lime plastered and
colour washed.
(c) End of every roof shall be 02 meters in height from the floor level
(d) Roof shall be covered with some permanent root material.
(e) All wood work shall be oil painted or be lime washed.
(f) The entire floor shall be paved with cement.
(g) Premises shall be provided with adequate drainage facilities.
(h) The premises shall have sanitary dust bins and be provided with adequate toilet facilities.
5. Every license holder shall take action to store, all the materials required for maintaining the business, in such a
manner so as to prevent emanation of any bad smell or causing any type of inconvenience.
6. A license holder, when conveying offensive or smelling materials through a public place or on a high road shall
pack such material in covered and impermeable container or bags so that no hindrance is caused.
7. Every license holder shall take action to prevent offend able nose steams, fumes or gas emanating while in the
porcess of production and release to the atmosphere in such manner, without causing any harmful effects or
else cause the exit of such substance by firing or through solid faying equipment.
8. Every license holder shall build adequate drains in the premises where his business if carried out and maintain
them properly by daily washing and cleaning them properly.
9. Every license holder shall build the floor of the premises where the business is to be carried out with some
impermeable material and shall  mainatin such premises in good repair condition and shall clean daily.
10. Every license holder, during the period when his business is being carried out shall see that the premises are
colour washed annually.
11. Every license holder shall keep all wares and articles including equipment and utensil used in the process of
business activities clean and tidy.
12. Every license holder shall daily dispose all waste materials getting collected in the premises where the business
is carried out such as sweepings, garbage, any remanats and by products, if they are not utilized immediately in
the business activities by storing them in covered containers and as directed by the Urban Council.
13. Every license holder shall clean and empty water tanks used for washing and soaking leather or any other
materials, preventing emanation of any bad odour or smell and when required.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
16A
14. No license holder shall allow to flow or cause to flow into any river, water way , canal well, lake or any drain,
polluted, filthy and smelling water or any other liquid fluid or shall not pollute a river, canal waterway, sluice,
well, lake tank or any water filled open area by washing any offensive substance or by any other means.
15. It shall be lawful, for the Chairman or for any other Officer of the Council who is generally or specially
authorized by the Chairman for such prupose to enter into any premises where an offensive trade or dangerous
trade or offensive and dangerous trade is carried out and the license holder or the person who is in charge of
such place shall assist them to make such inspection.
16. Whenever at any inspection, if it is detected that a licensed place or premises is not being maintained according
to the provisions stipulated in these by laws, the Chairman has the power to inform the license holder in writing
to take necessary action to regularize such premises conforming to provisions of these by laws within a specified
period of time. The license holder shall take necessary action accordingly and if he fails to do so the Chairman
has the power to cancel the license at such situation.
17. It is the duly of the Chairman, whenever any application forwarded by any person to obtain a license to conduct
any trade or business under these regulations, to issue such license within 30 days of the receipt of such
application. If such place  conform to provisions of these by laws and if such place does not conform to
proviosions of these by laws and if such application is to be rejected the applicant shall be informed of the
reasons for doing so.
18. Every license  holder shall make arragements to display a list of empolyees, in Sinhala and Tamil languages who
are employed in the trade or business for which a license issued, together with their names and addresses, at a
conspicuous place of such premises.
19. Every notice issued under these by laws shall be delivered  to the owner or to the person in charge of the
premises, depeding on such circumstance, If such person is not present, such notice shall be affixed at a
conspicuous place of such business premises. The name of the owner of the place, or the names of the person
using such place need not be  mentioned in such notice.
20. In any occasion when a number of business of industries, requiring a license under Section 164 of the Urban
Council Ordinance, carried out at one place, the license fees for each industry or business shall be levied
separately for such each industry or business.
21. Contraventions of anyone or several or all the bylaws herein shall be an offence and when convicted in a court
of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted, or in case of contineous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or
by an officer authorized by him, the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing a such
contravention shall be as defined under sub Section (2) of Section 153 of Chapter 255 of the Urban Council
Ordinance.
22. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 21 shall be deposited in the Council funds.
23. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by laws :
“License holder” means a person to whom a license is issued under these by laws to carry out any business
“Person” means and includes incorporated or non co-operated board of individuals too
“Person in charge” means and includes watcher, or guardian, custodian, guardian of property manager or
other person to whom, the administration or management or organization of any business is vested or
behalf of certain person.
“Council” means Kadugannawa Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council
“Urban Council Area” means Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa
“An Authorized Officer” means officer or officers who are authorized by the Chairman to enforce these by
laws.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
24. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and the English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
1ST  SCHEDULE
OFFENSIVE TRADES
1. Manufacturing manure of chemical manner or storing
2. Leather taming
3. Sale of leather
4. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)
5. Keeping a studio
6. Keeping Veterinary hospital
7. Storing perishable food items and food stuff for sale.
8. Storing dry fish, salted fish and Jadi exceeding a quantity of 150 kilograms
9. Production of cocount shell charcoal, wood charcoal and storing charcoal
10. Caring tobacco and keeping a store
11. Manufacture of animal food and keeping a store
12. Manufacture of poonac and storing over 200 kilograms
13. Manufacturing soap
14. Grinding animal bones and keeping them
15. Storing new and scrap iron
16. Keeping a store for metal scap articles
17. Manufacture of household furniture and storing
18. Manufacture of rattan articles
19. Keeping a carpentary workshop
20. Manufacture of fruit drinks and cyrup
21. Manufacture of all kind of sweet meats
22. Soaking cocount husks (or decomposing)
23. Manufacture of brushes (except tooth brush)
24. Manufacture of tooth brushes
25. Collection of toddy
26. Manufacture of viengar and storing
27. Keeping a mechanically or manualy operated timber depot
28. Storing over 100 liters of painting ink, varnish and distemper paints.
29. Manufacture of soda
30. Production of leather goods
31. Canning fruits, fish and other food items
32. Keeping a grinding mill for grinding chillies, coffee, cereals, and spices or flour milling
33. Manufacture of candles
34. Manufacutre of camphor
35. Production of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink
36. Manufacture of blue for washing clothes
37. Production of liquor
38. Manufacture of scent and powder and keeping a store
39. Production of school chalk
40. Storing a quantity of over 50 tyres and tubes
41. Rebuilding tyres
42. Keeping a depot for vulcanizing tyres and tubes
43. Storing over 1000 kilograms of cement
44. Manufacture of cement articles and asbestos cement articles.
45. Manufacture of plastic goods
46. Weaving textiles by machines

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
18A
47. Sale of bags which contained manure lime powder and other substances after cleaning
48. Producting of cement brick by machines.
49. Storing over 250 kilograms of cereals
2ND  SCHEDULE
DANGEROUS TRADES
1. Storing quantities of flour, salt or suger exceeing 750 kilograms for whole sale
2. Manufacture of ready made garments
3. Keeping a printing press
4. Keeping a poultry farm or a poultry yard having over 100 birds
5. Keeping a hut or a shed for over ten goats and pigs
6. Storing bricks and tiles
7. Keeping a firewood depot
8. Blasting or digging granite stones by manual or mechanical means.
9. Manufacture of soft drinks or storing over 100 sotf drink bottles
10. Production of ice cream
11. Production of cocount oil and storing in quantity exceeding 100 litres
12. Manufacturing match boxes and storing in quantity exceeding 100 dozens
13. Production of articles from coir or from any other kind of fibre or storing such items.
14. Storing used garments.
15. Making gold ornaments and repairing them
16. Sawing timber mechanically
17. Keeping a factory of malice tool sad equipments
18. Storing empty bottles and gunnies.
19. Keeping work shop for repairing bicycles and motor cycles.
20. Storing used papers and news papers
21. Keeping a picture framing centre
22. Production and storing fire works and crackers.
23. Storing coconut oil and other vegetable oil quantity exceeding 50 litres.
24. Storing frozen fish and meat
25. Storing timber.
3RD SCHEDULE
OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROUS TRADES
1. Curring cinnamon, cloves, cardamom or other kids of fibre by using chemical substance.
2. Dry cleaning dyeing
3. Textile printing or dying
4. Keeping an electro plating centre
5. Burning and treating lime stones and dolomite or storing ash line.
6. Keeping a battery charging or repairing centre
7. Keeping a motor car repairing garage
8. Maintaining a motor car service station.
9. Keeping a tinkering shed
10. Keeping gas cylinder store
11. Production or dispensing ayurvedic and indigenous drugs
12. Storing glassware or sheet glass
13. Maintaining a plastic or fibre products factory
14. Storing tea in quantity exceeding 150 kilograms

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
15. Keeping welding work shop
16. Maintaining a lathe machine work shop
17. Maintaining a filling station for petrol, diesel oil or any kind of mineral oil
18. Manufacturing and storing agro-chemicals
19. Repairing or servicing air conditioners, fridges and deep freezers.
20. Maintaining an electrical work shop or electrical equipment production and repairing work shop
2 I. Keeping a milk chilling centre
07 - 279/6
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby
notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance, read
along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 06 of Sub-section (a) of Section 157, read along with
Sub-section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of
Kadugannawa from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
BY LAWS RELA TING  TO  PLAY GROUNDS
01. This by law is called and known as by-laws for controling and for fee laying by-laws of the Play Grounds owned
by the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
02. These by-laws are enforced for the purpose of controling and regulating and for levying fees for use of play
grounds within the Kadugannawa Urban Council Authority area
03. Any persons expecting to make use of a play ground controlled by the Urban Council, Kadugannawa shall apply
to the Chairman or to the persons authorized by him for obtaining application form prescribed by the Council for
such purpose.
04. Whenever there is a necessity for reserving a play ground for any special festivals, sports competitions, exhibitions,
carnivals, public meetings, or for any activity of similar nature, an application shall be made, according to the
specimen form in the 1st Schedule of these by-laws at least one week before such date of the event.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
20A
(a) The Chairman shall consider every application for use of the play ground received at the office, according
to the order of receipt of such applications and every request made for the use of a play ground may be
accepted or refused according to approved conditions and permission may be granted after imposing
any conditions deemed necessary depending on the prevailing circumstances.
(b) The applicant shall be informed without delay the decisions by the Chairman whether to allow or refuse
the request made for the use of the play ground.
(c) In the event of deciding to grant permission for the use of the play ground, the applicant shall be informed
to pay the fees and the amount of security deposit resolved by the Council from time to time and
published in the Government Gazette, before 05 days of such date of the event.
(d) When the aforesaid prescribed fees and the security deposits are paid within the period specified by the
Chairman, a permit for the use of the play ground shall be issued to the applicant.
05. No person shall be allowed to use a play ground for any purpose at any time unless he is in possession of a
permit issued in terms of the procedure and rules laid down herein and except for purposes in these by-laws.
06. Refunds
(b) Unless the Chairman receives a notice of cancellation of the reservation of the play ground at least
three days before such date of reservation, any fee or a part there of shall not be refunded.
(c) When the Chairman is in receipt of a proper notice of cancellation of reservation, expenses incurred by
the Council shall be deducted and the balance amount together with the security deposit may be refunded
or else the entire amount of the fee security deposit may be. refunded. However due to cancellation of
the reservation if any other application for reservation of the play ground had to be refused, no refund
shall be made other than the security deposit.
07. The purposes and the time of reservation of the paly ground :-
(a) The permit holder shall not use the play ground for any other purpose except for the 
 purpose for which
the permit is issued. The permit holder shall have the right for use the play ground only during the period
stipulated in the permit.
(b) When the period specified in the permit is lapsed, additional charges resolved and published by the
Council, for the excess period of time using the play ground, shall be paid to the Chairman or to an
officer authorized by him, in addition to charges specified under by-law No.03 of these by-laws.
(c) Such charges shall also be deducted from the security deposit of the permit holder and he shall produce
the permit to any officer authorized by the Chairman for inspections as and when necessary and when he
fails to produce the permit to that officer, such permit holder shall not be allowed to use the play
ground.
08. A permit issued by the Chairman under by-law No.03 shall not be transferred by the Permit holder.
09. Permit holder is bound to protect the property and equipment own by the Council. When any damage or loss
is caused to such property and equipment the permit holder shall repair or restore them and be returned to the
proper authority.
10. Whenever a permit holder fails to take actions as specified under by-law No.09, the council has the power to
recover the value of damages caused, to be reckoned by the Chairman, from the security deposit.
11. The Council shall not be responsible for any loss or injury caused to the permit holder or any other party in the
course of activities mentioned in the permit.
12. Contravening any of the provisions of these By -Laws is an offence and when convicted it court of law having
jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when
 such contravention is committed
continuously and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice
by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under Sub-section
(2) of Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255).
13. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 12, shall be deposited in the Council fund.
14. Unless the content otherwise requires in these by-law
“Council” means the Kadugannawa Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council
“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized by the Chairman.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by-laws, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
KADUGANNAWA   URBAN  COUNCIL
Application for Reservation of Play Ground
Name of Applicant :..................................................................................................................................................................................
Address :.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
Telephone No. :.........................................................................................................................................................................................
Reason for Reservation :..................................................................................................................................................................................
Day/Days of  Reservation :..............................................................................................................................................................................
Time :.............................................
.........................
Signature
Date :.............................................
Office use
Recommendation
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Approval of Hon. Chairman
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Cash Payment
Receipt No. Date
Amount Deposited Total amount
Handing over the Key
Date Date of Return
07 - 279/7

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
22A
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance,
read along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 11 of Sub-section 157, read along with Sub-section (1)
of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa from
the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
 BY LAW RELA TING  TO PUBLIC FAIRS
1. The By Laws are cited as the By Laws relating to the conduct, control and charging fees on Public Fairs within
the authority area of Kadugannawa Urban Council.
2. The By Laws are enforced to conduct, control and regularlize public fairs within the authority area of Kadugannawa
Urban Council.
3. No person shall do trading activities unless obtain a valid licence, issued by the Chairman to conduct a public fair
in a prescribed place.
4. Public Fairs should be conducted only on the days when the Urban Council made resolutions time to time. But
the Urban Council has powers to conduct special Public Fairs on festival seasons for the utility and welfare of
the general public. Such public fairs shall be conducted from 6.00 a.m. to 6.00 p.m. on day sessions and from
6.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m. on night sessions.
5. A public fair fee, which is decided by the Urban Council through a resolution, shall be charged from the persons
do trading activities within the fair. All traders are bound to pay such fee.
6. The Urban Council shall has the power to evacuate persons who are not acting according to the By Law No. 04.
7. No traders shall behave in an unpleasant manner within the public fair and keep them always in a pleasant and
friendly manner.
8. It shall be forbidden to behave drunkenly in the public fair area.
9. The waste disposing by the traders in the public fair shall be disposed in a place prescribed by the Chairman,
making no hinderance to the environment and others.
10. The Council shall have the power to decide a charge levied on Public Fairs.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
11. The Chairman may appoint officers and workers to supervise and evaluate trade activities in the public fairs
and they shall have the power to go in to the following matters:
a) Whether the trading licence has obtained.
b) Whether the correct and licenced weigh and scale instruments are in use.
c) Whether the goods were hygienically stored.
d) Whether the goods on sale are in suitable standard for consumers.
12. Contraventions of anyone or several or all the bylaws herein shallbe an offence and when convicted in a court of
law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted, or in case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing a such
contravention shall be as defined under Sub section (2) of Section 153 of Chapter 255 of the Urban Council
Ordinance.
13. The fine imposed fee charged under by By Law No. 12 shall be deposited in the Council Fund.
14. No body can sell fish inside the weekly fair, other than places prescribed in the licence issued by the Council.
15. For the purpose of these by laws unless the content otherwise required.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Council” means the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Authorized Officer by the Chairman” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Kadugannawa
Urban Council.
“ Fair premises” means the area which the Urban Council decide and prescribe.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
07 - 279/8
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
By Laws
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance,
read along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 09 of Sub section (i) of Section 157, read along with
Sub-section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of
Kadugannawa from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
24A
BY LAW RELATING TO HAIR DRESSING CENTRES, BARBER SHOPS AND SALOONS AND BEAUTY CENTRES
1. This by law is cited as the by law for regulating, controlling and supervising hair dressing centres, barber shops
and saloons and beauty centres in the Kadugannawa Urban Council authority area.
2. This by law is enforced for the purpose of regulating, supervising and controlling of hair dressing centres, barber
shops and saloons and beauty centres in the Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa.
3. No person shall keep a hair dressing centre, barber’s shop and saloon and a beauty centre unless there is a
license issued by the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council authority area.
4. Every license issued by the Chairman under by law No.03 shall be valid until the 31st of December of the year
for which it is issued unless it is cancelled earlier.
5. (a) The Chairman of the Urban Council shall not issue a license for a hair dressing saloon, barber shop and
saloon and a beauty centre unless the provisions under Sections
(b) and (c) of these by laws are complied with as required.
(a) The building or the part of the building where the hair dressing centres, barber shops and saloons and
beauty centres are to be maintained shall be;-
i) Strongly built and the space set apart for providing services for each customer shall be minimum of
1:5 square metres and there shall be adequate space proportionate to the number of customers
who are to be provided services at the same time.
ii). For any customer who arrive therein in anticipation of services shall provided with adequate space
to be seated conveniently with at least 1:5 metres distance from the place where another customer is
being served.
iii). Interior walls shall be built with strong materials and walls shall be colour washed.
iv). Roof shall be built of timber or any other strong material and there shall be a ceiling at least at a height
of 2.25 metres and also the ceiling shall be painted in white paint.
v) Interior shall be paved with cement and glazed tiles and walls and floor joints shall be circular shape
making it easy to clean such places.
vi) Where the building is not air conditioned, there shall be windows fixed having a space not less than
1/15
th of the square of the floor and shall be adequately ventilated.
vii) Where interior of a building is air conditioned there shall be adequate supply of electricity.  If
water is being used when the customers are served there shall be a wash basin fixed and adequate
pipeline laid to flow out waste water.
ix) Used waste water shall be allowed to flow into a soakage pit and shall not drain into a common water
way.
x ) There shall be water sealed latrines in the interior or in the premises.
xi) Interior of a house shall not be used for the purpose and at any such instance particular portion shall
be separate from the house.
(c) Hair dressing centres, barber shops and saloons and beauty centres:-
i) There shall be an adequate supply of water when the place is kept opened for customers.
ii) There shall be an adequate means of getting boiling water for the purpose of sterilizing the instruments
and other appliances used when serving customers and there shall be sufficient amount of vessels
for use in sterilization.
iii) There shall be wash basins and soap or liquid soap to wash the hands of hair dressers  during the
course of their work.
iv) Adequate number of white towels and overalls for the use of customers.
v) A movable bin with a close fitting lid for placing hair clippings and other wastes.
vi) If electrical appliances are used there shall be at least one safety plug point for each customer’s table.
vii) First aid box with adequate amount of first aid equipments and drugs as prescribed by the Chairman

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
6. All persons employed in every place licensed under these by laws and coming under this section shall have a
first aid training as recommended by the Chairman and they shall be given a first aid rehearsal at least once a year.
7. Every person who is in receipt of a license under these by laws shall colour wash at least once a year the specified
places of the licensed place in the manner described under Section (b) of by law No.04 herein.
8. Every person who is receipt of a license under these by laws shall wash and clean the floor of the licensed place
at least once a week using disinfectants.
9. Any licensed place under these by laws shall not be used as a place for taking lunch and dinner and no outsiders
shall be allowed to use the place for such purpose.
10. Cooking foods or sale of foods or display of foods for sale shall not be carried out inside a licensed place
under these by laws.
(a) A licensee shall not or cause or allow to employ any person suffering from any infectious disease or
contiguous disease of any kind, or any person who has recently been in attendance on any person
suffering from such disease, to enter any licensed place for any purpose of any kind or as an assistant of
any person engaged in service unless the disinfectant period or the incubation period has lapsed.
(b) Any person whosoever shall not be employed or not allow to be employed in any kind of duty in a licensed
place unless such person is dressed in well washed and clean clothings.
(c) It is the duty of the licensee to get all the employees of the licensed place to appear for a medical examination
at least once a year.
11. Employee who has served a person suffering from a contiguous disease or infections disease or skin disease, or
any person who has recently attended on any person suffering from such disease-
(a) Shall not be permitted to serve or cause to serve any other customer unless such employee has washed
both his hands with disinfectant substance.
(b) Shall not be permitted to use or cause to use any instrument or appliance used for serving a customer, to
be used for serving another customer unless such items have been sterilized or the overalls used as such,
have been washed with disinfectants and soap.
12. Licensee shall ensure all persons employed in the licensed place are-
(a) Employed in service only after a daily bath or a body wash.
(b) Dressing apparels are clean and in good sanitary conditions.
(c) Keep the finger nails short and free from dust.
(d) Wash hands with soap before serving each customer.
13. Licensee shall ensure that in the licensed place:-
( a) All instruments are sterilized after each time of using them.
(b) Wash and clean, and sterilize daily before use all hair brushes and combs.
(c) Wash all shaving mugs and soap brushes after each time of use by dipping them in hot water.
14. Licensee shall sure that the customers when served at the licensed place-
(a) The hair clippings after hair cutting and shaving and any other waste materials left out are collected by
sweeping or by using a vacuum cleaner and deposit them in a separate bin
(b) Razor blades are changed in the razor knife used for hair cutting or for shaving.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
26A
15. It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that, at the end of daily work or at any number of times required, to
cause the hair clippings and other refuse collected and put into the bin are buried in a pit of at least one metre
in depth and shall not allow the hair clipping and other wastes to be blown away in the wind and allow to strew
in the premises of a public place.
16. When it is impossible to dispose hair clipping and other refuse gathered at the licensed place as mentioned under
by law No.15, action shall be taken to hand over such refuse, to the waste collecting vehicle of the Urban Council
under the waste matter disposal programme.
17. It is the duty of the licensee to cause the waste bin used at the licensed place, to be cleaned and disinfected each
time after emptying it.
18. No employee in any licensed place shall be permitted to use or cause to use on any customer-
(a) Any styptic pencil, powder puff or
(b) Any alum or other material for the purpose of stopping any bleeding unless such alum or other material is
in powder or liquid form.
19. Licensee of any licensed place shall not supply, for the use of any customer any overall which is not clean or any
towel which is not fresh from wash.
20. Licensee shall not carry out any business other than the business in respect of which the licensee is issued under
this section of these by laws, except with written permission of the Chairman.
21. Proper time for the Chairman or authorized officer to make inspections under sections of these by laws mean and
include any occasion providing service to customers at any such places.
22. For the purpose of these by laws unless the context otherwise requires
“Council” means the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Authorized officer” means an officer authorized by the Chairman of Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Overall” means a covering cloth used to cover the bust of a customer who is served at a licensed place.
23. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
07 - 279/9
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance,
read along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 07 of Sub-section (e) of Section 157, read along with

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
Sub-section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of
Kadugannawa from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
B
Y LAW RELATING  TO  C ONTROLLING AND REGULATING DECORATIONS IN THE CITY
1. This By-Law is cited as the By-Laws for controlling and regulating decorations and for charging fees for such
decorations within the Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa.
2. These By-Laws are enforced for the purpose of regulating and controlling decorations to be carried out by
the public within the streets of Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa.
3. It is not lawful to make any decoration within any place of the authority area of Kadugannawa Urban Council
without the written permission of the Chairman.
4. No person shall here-after decorate any street or other any place within the Council authority area of
Kadugannawa Urban Council without a permit issued by the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
5. When obtaining a permit for whatever decoration, an application under by-law No.06 shall be forwarded to
the Council at least 48 hours before the time of making such decoration.
6. Application shall include:
a. Nature of the decoration
b. Period of making the decoration
c. Purpose of the decoration
d. Date of the removing the decorations
e. Method of disposing such waste material
7. After forwarding an application, a permit shall be issued to make decorations subject to provisions of these
by-laws.
8. Polythene paper shall not be used for making decorations under any circumstances
9. A fee of Rs. 500/- shall be charged for every permit to be issued under by these by-laws.
a. A sum of Rs.5000/- as security shall be deposited in the Council for any type of decoration to be
carried out under these by-laws.
b. Every person who receives a permit to make and put up any decoration, when fails to remove them
within 24 hours of the date fixed for removal of such decoration, it is lawful for the Council to remove
such decoration and recover the expenses incurred for such removal from the security deposit and
refund the balance amount to the depositor.
10.The conditions stipulated under by law No. 09 shall not be applicable for funeral decorations
11. Any decoration to be carried out under the provisions of these by-laws shall not cover or conceal and obstruct
the view of highway signal posts and name boards found in the area.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
28A
12. Contravening any of the provisions of these By -Laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law
having jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when such contravention is committed
continuously and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice
by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum
additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined
under sub-Section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255).
13. The fine imposed fee charged under by law No. 12, shall be deposited in the council fund.
14. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by-laws
“Council” means the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Chairman” mean the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Decoration” means a temporary device put up from artificial or some indigenous material with the intention
of representing any event or any occasion.
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
07 - 279/10
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance,
read along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 09 of Sub-section (c) of Section 157, read along with
Sub-section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of
Kadugannawa from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
B
Y LAWS RELATING TO MAINTENANCE AND USE OF PUBLIC LATRINES
01. This By Law is cited as the By Laws for regulating the use and maintenance of Public Latrines within the
authority areas of Kadugannawa Urban Council.
02. The objective of the enforcement of this by law is to regulate the use and maintenance of Public Latrine System,
enabling the people living in the Urban Council Authority area of Kadugannawa to have clean and hygienic
latrine system.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
03. In any public Latrine, no person shall defecate at any other place except into the pan provided for such purpose
and shall not urinate at any other palce except in the latrine or at the place provided for such purpose.
4. No person shall use the water supplied to the latrine for any purpose other than for use and washing of such
latrine.
5. No person shall drop or place in any public latrine or in the porcelain pan of the latrine or in the gullies or in
other openings any brick, earth, stones, ashes or any ther substance or material which will cause any obatruction.
6. No person shall damage, remove, block up or in any way alter the fixing, position or arrangement of any pan,
pipe, valve, tank or any other fixing or appliance in any Public Latrine or wall, floor or any part of the structure
of such latrine, other than making repairs in it.
7. Only the females shall enter in to any part of a Public Latrine set apart for use of females and only males shall
enter in to any part of a latrine set apart for males. When cleaning or any carrying out any repair in any Public
Latrine doors shall be kept closed after exhibiting a notice in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages at the
entrance of such latrine by persons entrusted with such work.
8. No person shall defecate or urinate in place of the city except in a Public Latrine.
9. No person shall obstruct, refuse or disobey any lawful order of any attendant, watcher, servant or custodian of
any Public Latrine, whilst in the execution of his duties.
10. A Public Latrine shall be used only for the purpose of defecation and urination and no person shall smoke or
take drugs or idle therein.
11. When the custody and maintenance of a Public Latrine is entrusted to a private party, such latrine shall be
washed and cleaned daily by such party and if any fee is charged for maintenance, such fees shall be notified
on a notice to be exhibited at its entrance.
12. A latrine shall always be cleaned and be kept under sanitary condition and germicide should be used when
cleaning and shall be well maintained.
13. When a Public Latrine is entrusted to an individual or to a private institution, the Council shall decide time to
time the fees to be charged for covering up the expenses of such party.
14. Contraventions of anyone or several or all the bylaws herein shall be an offence and when convicted in a court
of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted, or in case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing a such
contravention shall be as defined under Sub section (2) of Section 153 (Chapter 255) of the Urban Council
Ordinance
15. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 14, shall be deposited in the Council fund.
16. For the purpose of these By Laws, unless the context otherwise requires.
“Chairman” means Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Council” means the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Authorized Officer by the Chairman” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Kadugannawa
Urban Council.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
07 - 279/11

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
30A
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
By Laws
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance,
read along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 08 of Sub-section (e) of Sub-ection 157, read along with
Sub-section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of
Kadugannawa from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy,
15th  September, 2014.
B
Y - L AW RELATING TO REGULA TING AND CONTROLLING PRIV ATE TEACHING I NSTITUTIONS AND
 LEVYING FEES FROM SUCH INSTITUTIONS
01. This By Law is cited as the By Law for Regulating and controlling the cleaning, purifying, ventilating, disinfecting
and checking disturbances by persons in charge or managing Private Teaching Institutions (tutories) and
levying fees from such places situated within the Kadugannawa Urban Council authority area.
02. This By Law shall be effective from the date of publication of the notification of approval of the Minister in the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
03. Owners, person in charge or persons conducting Private Teaching Institutions (tutories) in the Kadugannawa
Urban Council Authority Area shall not conduct such institutions without a license issued for the purpose by the
Chairman or by the officer authorized by him.
04. For the purpose of obtaining license under By Law 03 herein, an application prepared according to  Schedule No.
01, shall be forwarded to the Chairman with following documents:
I. Approved plan of the relevant building.
II. Internal Ground Plan.
III. Description of Technical equipments to be used.
05. A fee determined by the Council on the annual value of such premises, as defined under (Chapter 255) of Section
165 (a) of the Urban Council Ordinance No. 61 of 1939, shall be paid as License Fees for obtaining the license
under By Law No. 03.
06. The license obtained under By Law No. 03 shall be valid till 31st of December for the year for which it is
issued unless it is cancelled earlier.
07. When the length of the building used for lectures exceeded 50 feet, there shall be platform facility available with
the height of 1.5 feet, so that the lecturer shall be visible from the rare side.
08. When the length of the building exceed 50 feet, loud speaking facilities shall be provided to the satisfaction
of the Chairman.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
09. There shall be adequate fire extinguishing facilities supplied and fixed and shall be in operative condition at
any time under the Chairman or an officer authorized by him shall come for inspection.
10. There shall be entry and exit gates provided and if the number of children exceed 100, an additional emergency
gate shall be supplied for exit.
11. Portion of the internal walls of lecture hall, about the height 4 feet from the ground level, shall be painted in
white.
12. Walls shall be clear washed at least once a year as may be determined by the Chairman.
13. There shall be adequate first aid facilities within the building, consisting of drugs mentioned under Schedule
II of these By Law.
14. There shall be well ventilated windows having at least 1/4th  of the total square area of walls of the either side
of the lecture hall of such building.
15. The surrounding area of the lecture hall building shall always be kept clean and there shall be adequate number
of waste bins kept outside the hall for disposal of waste and refuse matter.
16. There shall be separate latrine and toilet facilities provided of males and females. And at least one latrine shall
be supplied for 50 students. Such latrines and toilets shall always be kept clean, using disinfectants and
preventing emanation of bad smell. There shall be a regular water supply
17. There shall be adequate supply of drinking water with one drinking water tap for 50 students.
18. There shall be seating accommodation for students with seats having not less than 1 1/2  
 feet in height and not
less than one foot in width. When students are not provided with separate seating accommodation, any other
seats supplied shall at least two feet separate length of space from each student.
19. Desks with at least 2 feet in height and 1.5 feet in width shall be provided for students. When students are not
provided with such tables, the other tables supplied shall have at least 02 feet of separate length of space for
each student. The maximum size of a table shall be 12 feet in length.
20. When keeping chairs and desks in the lecture hall, the distance and space to be taken in to consideration.
21. The seats and tables provided for students shall be in good usable condition.
22. It is lawful for the Chairman or for the officer authorized by him to enter any private teaching institution at any
reasonable time and make an inspection.
23. Contravening any of the provisions of these By -Laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law
having jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when such contravention is committed
continuously and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice
by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum
additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under
sub-Section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255).
24. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 23, shall be deposited in the Council fund.
25. For the purpose of these by law unless the content otherwise requires.
“Urban Council” means Urban Council of Kadugannawa.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council of Kadugannawa.
“An authorized officer of the Urban Council” means officer or officers who are authorized by the Chairman to
enforce these by laws.
“Private Teaching Institution” means any teaching institution maintained by levying fees.
26. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and English texts of these bylaws the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
32A
SCHEDULE  I
APPLICATION FOR OBTAINING A LICENSE TO MAINTAIN A PRIVATE TEACHING INSTITUTION
01. Name of Applicant
02. Address
03. Number of the National Identity Card
04. Documents forwarded :
I. Building Yes No.
II. Ground Plan Y es No.
III. T echnical Equipments Y es No.
Description
05. Name of the Teaching Institution :
06. Adress
07. Number fo Registration
I do hereby certify that the information furnished above is true and correct.
Signature of Applicant :...............................................                                         Date :...............................................
For Office use only :
Subject Clerk
Building Application : Correct Incorrect
Revenue Inspector/Ground Plan Correct Incorrect
Issue of License is in order
Signature 1. ........................................................
2. ........................................................
Issue of License is recommended/not recommended
...........................................
Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
.........................................
Chairman.
SCHEDULE   II
Paracetamol Gose Plaster Asa modagam
Cotton wool Betadin W ater Siddahalepa
Surgical Spirit Razor Blade

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
By Laws
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance,
read along with Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial Councils,
under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 10 of Sub-section (b) of Sub-ection 157, read along with Sub-
section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of Kadugannawa
from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
15th  September, 2014.
SCHEDULE  III
Space Facilities for one Pupil
Height - Table Width Length
Not less than 1.5 feet 1 feet 2 feet
Wall
Table         Table
Table
07 -279/12

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
34A
BY LAW RELATING  TO  CONTROLLING AND REGULATING ANIMAL FARMS
1. This by law is cited as the by law for controlling, administering, supervising and for regulating animal farms
maintained in the authority area of Kadugannawa Urban Council, for producing meats, milk or eggs or for
breeding purposes and for any other activities connected thereto and for levying fees.
2. The purpose of enforcing these by laws is to maintain all animal farms within the Kadugannawa Urban Council
area, under good sanitary conditions without causing any damage, loss or inconvenience to public and to the
environment, and to take care of animals, according to recognized standards without harassing and torturing
them.
3. No person shall maintain any animal farm for producing meat, milk or eggs or for breeding except with a
license issued by the Chairman for such purpose.
4. A license issued under by law No.02 shall be valid till 31st of December for which it is issued unless it is
cancelled earlier.
5. A license fee shall be levied on all licenses issued under Sections 164, 165, 165 a, 165 b of Urban Councils
Ordinance (Chapter 255). The Council shall determine the amount of fees to be charged from to time. Amended
fees as such shall be effective after publication in the Gazette.
6. Any person applying for license shall forward the application with the recommendation of the veterinary
doctor of the area. Applications shall be forwarded according to the form shown in the schedule herein.
7. Every animal farm licence shall carry the version “Licenced Animal Farm”, with the name and address of the
holder, clearly painted in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages on a board exhibit in outside of the farm.
8. Every licensee of an animal farm shall cause all walls and pillars of the farm to be colour washed once a year.
9. Every licensee of an animal farm shall keep the farm and all buildings therein in good repaired condition and
under sanitary conditions and shall cause to clean and wash daily.
10. Every licensee of an animal farm shall cause to gather daily, all dung, urine and all other wastes from time to
time at short intervals, in order to keep the place clean and under good sanitary conditions and the wastes and
urine so gathered shall be placed in a covered vessel made of some permanent impermeable material or place
them in a pit built and paved with cement.
11. Every licensee of an animal farm shall cause to remove at least once a day all wastes, urine or waste water and
cause to dispose them making no any annoyance to others.
12. Every licensee of an animal farm shall get every animal in the farm, to be examined by the Government
Veterinary doctor and obtain a report and keep it with him and if he has made any recommendation that shall be
carried out immediately.
13. The animal farm shall be so erected, in such a way if in any situation when an animal or animals are afflicted
with any kind of infections, contiguous disease, to keep such animal or animals separated.
14. If any situation occurs as mentioned under by law No.13 the veterinary doctor of the area shall be informed.
15. No animal shall be killed or tortured at the place where they are kept or inside the farm.
16. Meat of an animal died owing to any infectious or contiguous disease shall be destroyed preventing human
consumption.

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
17. It is lawful for the Chairman or for an officer authorized by him in writing to enter any animal farm, at any
reasonable time and make an inspection.
18. Owner or the person in charge of the animal farm shall allow the Chairman or the officer authorized by him in
writing, to make inspections and shall render all assistance to the Chairman or to such officer.
19. Contravening any of the provisions of these By -Laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law
having jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when such contravention is committed
continuously and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice
by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum
additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under
sub-Section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255).
20. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 19, shall be deposited in the Council fund.
21. For the purpose of these by laws unless the context otherwise requires-
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Council” means the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized by the Chairman.
“Animal” any species or groups of animals reared for meat or milk or eggs or for breeding purposes.
22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
1ST  SCHEDULE  (BY LAW  No. 06)
APPLICATION FOR ANIMAL FARM LICENCE
1. Name of applicant :-
2. Address of Applicant :-
3. Telephone Number :-
4. Address of the animal farm :-
5. District :-
6. Divisional Secretary area :-
7. Grama Niladari Divison/village :-
8. Species of animal reared and the number of animals :-
No. Specis Number of animals Purpose of the rearing Space separated
animals meat or any for animals
other
1. Cattle
2. Goats
3. Pigs
4. Poultry
9. Description of the route of the from
.......................
Signature of Applicant.
Date :..................................

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
36A
10. Report of the environmental officer of the Council
11. Report of veterinary officer of the area
12. Office use :
According to above information and report isse of a permit for animal farm is recommended/not recommeded.
..............................
Secretary
Date :...........................
Issue for a permit for animal farm is approved/not approved.
..............................
Chairman.
Date :...........................
07 - 279/13
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Kadugannawa  Urban  Council
BY LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-Section (1) of Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance,
read along with sub Section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, has
approved the following By-Laws framed by the Kadugannawa Urban Council, by virtue of power vested on Provincial
Councils, under Chapter 255  Urban Council Ordinance Paragraph 9 of sub section (p) of Section 157, read along with sub
Section (1) of Section 153 under the said Ordinance, shall be effective within the Urban Council authority area of
Kadugannawa from the date of publication of this notification iin the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
15th  September, 2014.

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
By-Law Relating to Controlling and Regulating Public Bathing Places within Urban Council Authority Areas.
1. This by-law is cited as the by-law for controlling and regulating public bathing places within the Kadugannawa
Urban Council authority areas.
2. This by-law is enforced for the purpose of controlling and regulating public bathing places within the
Kadugannawa Urban Council authority areas.
3. Proper maintainence of a public bathing place shall be carried out by a committee consisting of villagers who are
using such places.
4. Such committees shall be registered in the Kadugannawa Urban Council, a nominal membership contribution as
determined by the committee shall be collected and be deposited in a savings account. It is lawful to credit to this
account any sum of money to be determined by for Council and withdraw from the account for use and
maintaining of the well or bathing places. Such withdrawal shall be made by the Chairman and the Secretary on
approval of the committee.
5. The committee is responsible for reporting to the council the expenses and recovery of membership
fees once in six months.
I. Supplying a bucket and a rope as necessary.
II. Clean the bucket by painting once in six months.
III. Clean the well of polluted water once in six months.
IV . Protect the water spring of the well and trees in the surrounding.
6. Any well, the water of which is used for bathing purposes and is opened to the public shall have a protective wall
of the height not less than 0.6096 metres and be cemented exterior of such wall to a depth of 0.6096 metres from
the surface level of the ground.
7. The floor immediately surrounding every public well shall be sloped and be paved, as to allow the water to flow
down to a built drain preventing any water seeping in to the ground.
8. No person of one sex shall bathe, wash or in any way use the water of a public well set a apart for the purpose of
other sex by the Council.
9. No person suffering from infections disease or such person who has recently recovered from such disease, shall
bathe, wash or in any way use the water at any such well, or at any place set apart by the Council as a bathing
place.
10. Water shall not be taken for drinking purposes from any place whatsoever set apart as a public bathing place.
11. No person shall wash or cause to be washed any cattle, goat, pig, sheep, pony, dog or any other animal in any
place set apart as a public bathing place or shall not enter or drive in to any such bathing for any purpose
whatsoever any such animal.
12. No person shall obey a call of nature or urinate at or near any such public well or at any place set apart as a public
bathing place by the Urban Council.
13. Any well or any place set apart as a public bathing place by the Kadugannawa Urban Council Sabha shall not be
used for washing motor vehicles or shall not take water for such purpose.

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.06.2015
38A
14. No person shall wash equipment used for spraying agrochemicals at a public well or a place set apart by the
Urban Council as a public bathing place or shall not use water at such place for diluting agro chemicals.
15. No person shall misbehave at the premises of a public well or at a place close to such well
16. When bathing from a public well nobody shall get inside the well for bathing and shall not cause anything to
pollute water therin.
17. It is lawfull for the Chairman or an officer generally or especially appointed by him for the purpose, to inspect
a public well or a place set apart as a public bathing place by the Urban Council for ascertaining whether such
place is being maintained properly.
18. Contravening any of the provisions of these By -Laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law
having jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when such contravention is committed
continuously and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice
by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum
additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under
sub-Section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255).
19. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 18, shall be deposited in the council fund.
20. For the purpose of these by-laws unless the context otherwise requires
“Council” means the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Chairman” mean the Chairman of the Kadugannawa Urban Council.
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council.
21. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by-laws the S
inhala text
shall prevail
07 - 279/14
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.