

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'05
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.12.2013
w;s úfYI
wxl 1839$45 - 2013 foieïn¾ ui 05 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'12'05
No. 1839/45 - THURSDAY ,  DECEMBER  05,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA
(Ministry of Road Development, Animal Production & Development, Housing and Construction, Fisheries & Tourism)
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  ROAD  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY  (AMENDMENT)
STA TUTE  No. 05 OF 2013
(Governor’s Assent given on 30.10.2013)
Printed on the order of the Western Provincial Council.
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Western  Province  Provincial  Road  Development  Authority  (Amendment)
Statute  No.  05  of 2013
(Governor’s Assent Given on 30.10.2013)
I, certify that the Provincial Road Development Authority (Amendment) Statute No. 05 of 2013 of the Western Province was
approved at the Western Province Provincial Councial Meeting held on 08th October 2013
SUNIL WIJERATHNE,
Chairman,
Western Province Provincial Council.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'05
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -05.12.2013
2A
Amendment to
of Sub-section 4
(b) in the
principal Staute.
Replacement of
the Section 7 of
the principal
Statute.
01. This Statute may be cited as the Western Province Provincial Road Developmet Authority
(Amendment) Statute No. 05 of 2013 and the shall come into operation on such date as the Governor may
approve ;
02. The last word referred to as an “act” in the preamble of the Statute of the Western Province
Provincial Road Development Authority Statute No. 4 of 1989 (hereinafter referred to as the Principal
Statute) as been amended as a “Statute” in the Statute ;
03. Sub-section 4(b) of the Principal Statute is hereby amended by the deletion of the said Sub-
section and the insertion of the following Sub-section :-
4(b) subject to the provision of the Statute, the Provincial Minister may make rules for the
procedure in regard to the meeting and/or meetings of the Provincial Authority.
04. The Section 7 of the Principal Statute is here by amended by the deletion of the said Section
and the insertion of the following Section.
Subject to the provision of Sub-section 7(1) 5 within any development area shall be :
(a) To prepare Road Development Plan in such areas and Road Development ;
(b) To prepare integrated Road Development Plans and implement related programs of the
Road Development and Services in such areas ;
(c) To formulate Road Development Plans including Capital Investment Plans and
implementation of such plan ;
(d) To enter into, perform and carry-out all contracts and agreement as may be necessary for
the purpose of carrying-out any Road Development Project ;
(e) To enter in to, perform an carryout joint venture, all such contract or agreement may be
necessary for carrying out and Road Development Project ;
(f) To undertake the completion of any Road Development Project or scheme in default of
any person or institution failing to complete such project or scheme ;
(g) To acquire, purchase or hold any moveable or immoveable property or dispose or give on
a lease any moveable or immoveable property acquired or purchased or held by it ;
Short title and
date of
operation.
Amendment of
the preamble of
the principal
Statute.
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  ROAD  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY   (AMENDMENT)
STATUTE  NO.  05  OF 2013
A Statute to amend the Western Provincial Road Development Authority Statute No. 04 of 1989.
Be it enacted by the Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'05
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.12.2013
(h) To prepare at the request of any institution, Road Development and Planning Schemes on
behalf of such institution and to cordinate or assist in the execution of such projects or
schemes ;
(i) To provide Road Planning Services for the benefits of any institution or person ;
(j) To charge a price or a fee for any services provided by the Provincial Authority.
(k) To accept gift, grant, donations and/or subsidies in cash and or otherwise ;
(l) To permit any of utility service providers for using a Road Reservation and charge rental
for such work and enter into any agreement that may be necessary for the purpose of any
such work ;
(m) To allow any person or organization to display notice and banners or to fix gantries and
hoardings or for erecting any temporary structure for any business in a Road Reservation
and to charge rental from such person or organization for this purpose and to enter in to
any agreement that may be necessary ;
(n) To do all such act or things as are incidental to or consequential upon the exercise,
Performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Statute.
7 (2) ( a) To prepare at the request of any institution, Road Development Project and/or projects
for other Construction or Schemes within or outside the Development Area, on behalf
of such institution and/or provide engineering construction services as required and/
or implement such projects or schemes ;
(b) To acquire, purchase and hold any moveable or immoveable property or dispose of or
give on a lease any moveable or immoveable property acquired or purchased or held
by it, as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying out act or thing as stated in
paragraph (a) above ;
(c) To enter in to, perform and carry out any contracts or agreements as may be necessary
for the purpose of carrying out any act or thing as stated in paragraph (a) above ;
(d) To enter in to, perform or carrying out joint venture, all such agreement as may be
necessary for the purpose of carrying out any act or thing as stated in paragraph (a)
above ;
(e) to set up branch offices appoint the staff and employees on contact, adhoc, temporary
or assignment basis and to dismiss, determine the terms and conditions of services,
to fix the wages or salary and other remuneration and to exercise disciplinary control,
as may be necessary for the purpose of performing any act or thing as stated in
paragraph (a) above.
the powers, duties and function of the Authority
7 (3) ( a) Disposal of immoveable property should be carried out, subject to the approval of the
board of ministers of the Provincial Council as stated in paragraph 7(1)(g) and 7(2)b ;
(b) when immoveable property is given on lease, road reservation should not be included
in the said lease as stated in paragraph 7(1)(g) and 7(2)(b).
7 (4) when enter into joint venture, prior approval of the Provincial Minister should be obtain
for this purpose, as stated in paragraph 7(1)(e) and 7(2)(d).
7 (5) in the exercise, performance and discharge of it powers, duties and functions under the
Sub-section :
(1) it shall be the duty of the Provincial Authority when formulating or implementing any
program of development work relaing to the Planningar Road Development within any

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'05
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -05.12.2013
4A
Replacement of
the section 13 of
principal Statute.
Amendment of
Section 15 of the
Principal.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
Development Area to do so in consultation with any institution or organization, as the
case may be, whose rights, interest or functions may be affected by the proposed work.
7 (6) In the exercise performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions under Sub-
section (1) it shall be the duty of the Provincial Authority when formulating any program
of the Development work relating to Road Planning Road Develoment with in any
Development area, of and Local Authority falls within overlap the Development area, to
invite the Mayor or Chairman of such Local Authority and an officer of that Local Authority
nominated by the Mayor or Chairman, as the case may be, to be present and participate in
the meeting or meetings of the Provincial Authority in relation to said programs of the
Development Work.
05. In Sub-section 7(1) under the paragraph (l) and (m), the Provincial Minister may make rules in
the respect of discharge of powers.
06. The Section 13 of the Principal Statute is here by amended by the deletion of the said section
and the insertion of the following section.
06. 13 (1)The Authority may subject to the provisions of Sub-section (2) and the written consent
of the Provincial Minister, borrow or raise such sums as the Authority may acquire for meeting its obligation
in the discharge of it duties under the this Statute :-
(a) By way of temporary overdraft or otherwise ; or
(b) By the issue of debentures and bond or seller’s credit.
(2)  the aggregate of the amounts outstanding in respect of any loan or fund raised by the
Authority under Sub-section (1) shall not at any time exceed such sum as may be determined by the
Provincial Minister in consultation with the Provincial Minister of Finance.
07. Section 15 in the Principal Statute is here by amended by the deletion of the said Section and
the insertion of the following section.
15 The Provincial Minister may make rule in respect of the management of the affairs of the
Provincial Authority and all or any of the matter for which rules are authorized or required by this Statute
to be made.
08. Immediately after the interpretation of “National Highways” in the interpretation section of the
principal statute, the said interpretation section is here by amended by insertion of the following
interpretation :-
“Institution” means a Ministry, Department, Corporation, Authority, Board and Provincial Council,
in the Government, Provincial Ministry, Department, Corporation or Local Government Institution ;
“Person” means a legal person, partnership or natural person ;
“Utility Service Provider” means water, electricity and other communication services.
12 - 914
To make rules
under Section 7.