

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
651
wxl 1"924 - 2015 cQ,s ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'07'17
No. 1,924 – FRIDAY ,  JULY 17,  2015
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
Revenue & Expenditure Returns ... ––
Budgets ... – –
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... 652
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 653
By-Laws ... ––
651
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th August, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th July,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall
be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-l aw,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
W. A. A. G. F
ONSEKA,
 Government Printer ( Acting ).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 22, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.—  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,923 of  10.07.2015 was not published.
Note.—  Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 29, 2015.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
652
Posts – Vacant
MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL  OF  BADULLA
Recruiting Persons for the Vacant Posts in the State Service of the Uva Province
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka residing permanently within the area of authority of the Municipal Council limits
of Badulla and who have completed the qualifications of this notice for recruiting for the following vacant posts in the Municipal Council
of Badulla.
Name of the posts Number of Salary Scale Educational Qualifications and
Vacancies Other Qualifications
Security Officer II 03 P. A. C. 6/2006(IV) Inernal Applicants :
PL1-2006A R.s 11,730 - 10x120 - Should have passed at least Grade 8/Year 9
10x130 -10x145 - 12x160 -
Rs. 17,600 External Applicants :
Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination in 6 subjects including Sinhala,
Mathematics subjects in not more than two
sittings.
Conditions of Service :–
1. This post is permanent and pensionable.
2. Should contribute to the Widows and Orphanage Pension Fund.
3. The selected servants should serve for a period of three years on a probationary basis.
4. In addition to these conditions and regulations of recruitment all the servants are bound to serve according to the
regulations of The Manual of Procedure and the Financial Regulations of the Republic of Sri Lanka and to the regulations
and orders issued occasionally by the Public Service Commission of the Uva Province or by the Public Service of the Uva
Province or by them Government Departments or by the Municipal Council of Badulla.
5. You will be considered for confirming permanency in the post during the three years period after appointment.
Age limit.– While the age should not be below 18 years, it should not be more than 45 years. The age limit is irrelevant regarding
the servants already in the government or the Local Government Service.
Mode of applications.– Applications prepared on a 12" x 8" paper according to the specimen given below should be sent under
registered cover or handed over personally addressed to the "Municipal Commissioner Municipal Council Badulla" before 30.07.2015. The
name of the relevant post should be written on the left hand top corner of the envelope. Applications sent after the due date and incomplete
applications will be rejected. Those who are already in the government service or the local government service should send their applications
through the Head of the Institution.
Mode of Recruitment :
1. Recruitment will be done on the results of a structured interview held for those applicants who have obtained the due
qualifications.
2. The Municipal Commissioner of the Municipal Council of Badulla has the authority of delaying the recruitment or
changing or cancelling it after calling these applications or during the course of calling of the applications.
W. R
ANDENIYA,
Municipal Commissioner,
Municipal Council of Badulla.
At the Office of the Municipal Council of Badulla,
On 17th June, 2015.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
653
MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL  OF  BADULLA
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF SECURITY OFFICER
01. Name of the applicant (with initials) :–––––––––––––––.
Names denoted by the initials :–––––––––––––––.
02. Postal Address :–––––––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :    Date :–––––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––––,  Year :–––––––––––––––.
04. Age on the final date of receiving applications :    Days :–––––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––––,  Years :–––––––––––––––.
05. Whether married or single ? :–––––––––––––––.
06. Nationality :–––––––––––––––.
07. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :–––––––––––––––.
If so by descent or by registration ? :–––––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––––––.
09. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––––.
10. If you are already employed in the Municipal Council :
(i) Present Post :–––––––––––––––.
(ii) Date of appointment to that post :–––––––––––––––.
(iii) Nature of that appointment (permanent/casual/temporary/substitute/contract basis) :–––––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this applications are true and correct. I know that if any information given
here is disclosed untrue or wrong before getting selected, I will be disqualified and if any such fact is revealed after getting the appointment
I will be interdicted from service without paying any compensation.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––––.
07–600
Local Government Notifications
THAWALAMA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Adopting Approved By-laws
IT is hereby informed that the Thawalama Pradeshiya Sabha has,
under proposal No. 10.08 passed on 29.10.2014. The proposal to
adopt, subject to provisions of the Sub-section 03 of the Section 2 of
Local Government Act, No. 06 of 1952 (Approved By-laws), the
draft By-laws from 1 to 42 framed under Local Government Act,
No. 6 of 1952 (Approved By-laws), published in the Extra Ordinary
Gazette No. 520/7 of 23 (Tuesday), August, 1988 as per powers
vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sections 122 and 126 read with
Section 221(A) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 1, in the Schedule
related to the following business prescribed as unpleasant and
dangerous under By-law No. 21.
B
ANDULA WIJESEKARA,
Chairman,
Thawalama Pradeshiya Sabha.
At  Thawalama Pradeshiya Sabha,
25th day of March, 2015.
SCHEDULE No. 01
Unpleasant Business :
01. Manufacture of yoghurt
02. Maintaining chicken farm
03. Manufacture of ice cream
04. Manufacture of sweetmeats
05. Maintaining vehicle servicing place
06. Maintaining vegetable and fruits place
07. Maintaining funeral parlour
08. Maintaining kiln
09. Maintaining grinding mill
10. Maintaining power loom factory
11. Maintaining sugar cane mill
12. Maintaining animal farm
13. Maintaining and selling of tea leaves and spices
14. Packeting and selling of tea leaves and spices
15. Maintaining rice mill
16. Maintaining three wheeler repairing place

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
654
17. Maintaining a machinery repairing place
18. Maintaining motor bike repairing place
19. Maintaining bicycle repairing place
20. Maintaining dentist's
21. Maintaining indigenous medicine manufacture place
22. Maintaining lathe machine workshop
23. Maintaining motor vehicle repairing place
24. Maintaining tyre and tube repairing place
25. Maintaining textile garment
26. Maintaining milk food manufacturing place
Dangerous Business :
01. Maintaining quarry
02. Maintaining interlocking manufacturing place
03. Maintaining insecticide and pesticide storing and selling place
04. Maintaining welding plant
05. Manufacture and selling of acids
06. Maintaining gas selling place
07. Maintaining scrap metal collecting place
08. Maintaining fiber glass manufacturing or selling place
09. Maintaining electrical equipment repairing place
10. Maintaining agricultural implements manufacturing place
11. Maintaining petroleum shed
Dangerous and Unpleasant Business :
01. Garage
02. Timber mill
03. Maintaining fertilizer selling place
04. Maintaining mechanized granite grinding place
05. Preparing of A/C machines and fringes
06. Maintaining press
07. Maintaining carpenter workshop
08. Maintaining shellfish grinding place and chemical manufacturing
place
09. Maintaining factory
10. Maintaining battery place
07–599
–––––––––––––––––
RAMBUKKANA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Section No. 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby noticed that as per the resolution adopted at the general
meeting held on 14.05.2015 by the Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha
in Kegalle District, in terms of Section 24 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987, following roads and paths situated in the limit
of Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha are declared as roads belonged to
the Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha as per the consent given by the
land owners concerned in writing to the Pradeshiya Sabha and as per
the corresponding length and width of the roads.
It is further noticed that if any objection is raised by the general
public in the area concerned on widening of these roads, objections
indicating the reason thereon should be submitted in writing to the
Pradeshiya Sabha with two copies within 30 days from the date on
which this notice is published in the Gazette. If no objection is
submitted in the specified period, such roads will be administered as
roads belonged to the Pradeshiya Sabha as per the corresponding
length and width of the roads, cnsidering the roads as a property of
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
This notice is published by virtue of powers vested in me in
terms of section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
W. A. C. W
IJESINGHE,
Secretary,
Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of the Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha,
On 16th June, 2015.
Road Description :
Length Width
180 feet 12 feet
Name of the Road : Paranawatta Road
Grama Niladhari Division : Beligodapitiya
The start : Beligodapitiya Main Road
The end : Paranawatta
The road to Paranawatta starting from Beligodapitiya main road
and bounded on the left by the land called Paranawatta belonged to
W. A. D. Rajapakse and the land called Paranawatta belonged to
L. M. S. Liyanage.
And, bounded on the right by the land called Paranawatta belonged
to W. A. D. Rajapakse and the land called Paranawatta belonged to
L. M. S. Liyanage.
07–607/2
––––––––––––––––––––
RAMBUKKANA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Section No. 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby noticed that as per the resolution adopted at the general
meeting held on 24.03.2015 by the Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha
in Kegalle District, in terms of Section 24 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987, following roads and paths situated in the limit
of Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha are declared as roads belonged to
the Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha as per the consent given by the
land owners concerned in writing to the Pradeshiya Sabha and as per
the corresponding length and width of the road.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
655
It is further noticed that if any objection is raised by the general
public in the area concerned on widening of these roads, objections
indicating the reason thereon should be submitted in writing to the
Pradeshiya Sabha with two copies within 30 days from the date on
which this notice is published in the Gazette. If no objection is
submitted in the specified period, such roads will be administered as
roads belonged to the Pradeshiya Sabha as per the corresponding
length and width of the roads, cnsidering the roads as a property of
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
This notice is published by virtue of powers vested in me in
terms of section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
W. A. C. W
IJESINGHE,
Secretary,
Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of the Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha,
On 16th June, 2015.
Road Description :
Length Width
300 feet 08 feet
Name of the Road : Gallenamulla Road
Grama Niladhari Division : Halpitiya
The start : Near the paddy field of Galahitiyawa
in the Halpitiya - Hapugoda Road
The end : Galahitiyawawatta land
Gallenamulla Road starting from paddy field of Galahitiyawa in
the Halpitiya - Hapugoda Road and bounded on the left by the land
called Galahitiyawa Kumbura belonged to A. Sumanawathie
Kumarihami and R. M. Anulawathie, the land called Galahitiyawa
Kumbura belonged to A. Sumanawathie Kumarihami, the land called
Galahitiyawawatta also known as Mugunugahapillewa belonged to
P. K. Madurawathie Menike and the land called Mugunugahamula
Pillewa also known as Galahitiyawa belonged to D. R. Lasantha
Kosala Bandara Munasinghe.
And, bounded on the right by a water course, the land called
Galahitiyawawatta also known as Mugunugahapillewa belonged to
P. K. Madurawathie Menike and the land called Mugunugahamula
Pillewa also known as Galahitiyawa belonged to D. R. Lasantha
Kosala Bandara Munasinghe.
Road Description :
Length Width
2,110 feet 14-16 feet
Name of the Road : Fifth Lane of Bogahatenna
Grama Niladhari Division : Thaldewa
The start : Thaldewa Bogahatenna
The end : Bogahatenna
Fifth lane in Bogahatenna starting from Thaldewa, Bogahatenna
and bounded on the left by the land called Bogahatenna land or lands
belonged to W. G . M. Pemawathie, W. M. Gunasena, T. G . Anoma
Pushpamali Ranasinghe, L. P. Karunatissa, K. G . Dayawathie, P. K.
D. Somawathie Menike, A. A. Upul Perera, T. G . Nayana Deepani
Ranasinghe, R. Sarath Wijayananda.
And, bounded on the right by the land called Bogahatenna land or
lands belonged to K. P. N. Samarathunga, Y . M. Jayarathna Menike,
D. A. Manjula Sanjeewanie, J. K. Priyantha Gunarathna.
Road Description :
Length Width
475 feet 08 feet
Name of the Road : The Road from Kiriwana to
Halgahamulahena
Grama Niladhari Division : Narambedda East
The start : Bogahamulawatta
The end : Halgahamulahena
Halgahamulahena Road starting from Bogahamulawatta near the
bridge of Narambedda temple road and bounded on the left by the
land called Amunekumbura belonged to T. W. Jinadasa, W. D.
Jayasinghe, Somasiri Gunathilake and W. D. S. Wijesinghe, the land
called Eriyagahamula Kumbura belonged to W. D. Sumanawathie the
land called Eriyagahamula Kumbura belong to W. D. S. Jayarathna,
the land called Eriyagahamula Kumbura belonged to R. Jayasena and
the land called Thalagolle Bogahamulahena belonged to
W. Wimalasena.
And, bounded on the right by the land called Thalagolle
Bogahamulahena belonged to R. Jayasena, Thalagolle
Bogahamulahena belonged to W. Wimalasena.
07–607/1
––––––––––––––––––
ARANAYAKA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
THE notice declared under the Act, No. 15 and article of 14 and
24(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha of 1987.
The notice declared according to the Act, No. 15 and Article of 24
of Pradeshiya Sabha Road/Roads mentioned in the schedule below
by Aranayake Pradeshiya Sabha in the Kegalle District in the Province
of Sabaragamuwa, belongs to the Aranayake Pradeshiya Sabha in the
Kegalle District in the Sabaragamuwa Province.
It is hereby notified that if there is any objections against the land
surveyed and marked for the Roads/Road by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
the so called land owners who oppose are hereby announced to
prove their ownership according to the Act, No. 15 and Article of 24
of Pradeshiya Sabha within three month from this notice.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
656
If there is any objection is not submitted within this period, it is hereby declared to the General Public, that the Roads/Road
mentioned in the Schedule is a accepted and maintained as a Roads/Road belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabha Aranayake.
T. M. CHANDRAW ATHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha Aranayaka.
At Pradeshiya Sabha Office, Aranayake,
30th June, 2015.
Name of the Road : The road starts from main road of Thalgamuwa Co-operative shop to Kuda Oya Road
Start and the End of the Road : The road commences from Thalgamuwa Attapitiya main road to Kuda Oya
Grama Niladari Division : B33, Thalgamuwa
Length of Road : 300m. Width : 8ft.
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the left of the road from the start to the end :
1. Ven. Viharadhipathi Yagoda Rathnasara Thero Via Thalgamuwa Pitigoda Munkotuwa land
2. Ven. Viharadhipathi Yagoda Rathnasara Thero Via Thalgamuwa Pitigoda Munkotuwa land
3. Mr. W. M. Ranweera Udumullawatta
4. Mr. W. M. Weerasuriya Udumullawatta
5. Mr. A. M. Milan Thushara Chandrathissa Bogahawatta
6. Mr. G . M. W. Perera Welimannawatta
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the right of the road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. W. M. K. Weerasuriya Munkotuwa Idama
2. Mr. W. M. K. Weerasuriya Munkotuwa Idama
3. Mr. W. M. K. Weerasuriya Munkotuwa Idama
4. Mr. W. M. K. Weerasuriya Munkotuwa Idama
5. Mr. W. M. D. J. Weerasuriya Amugahawatta
6. Mr. K. M. B. Warkulasuriya Kahatagahawatta
7. Mr. W. M. Ranaraja Udumullawatta
8. Mr. K. M. K. Rathnasuriya Udumullawatta
Name of the Road : Gammannagoda Rathmaldeniya Road
Start and the end of the Road : The road commences from Mahagodathenna to Rathmaldeniya Road
Grama Niladari Division : 17D, Gammannagoda
Length of Road : 300m. Width : 8ft.
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the left of the road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. A. R. Jayasekara Pansalawatta Land
2. Mr. E. R. Jinadasa Rathmaldeniya Land
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the right of the road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. A. R. Jayasekara Pansalawatta Land
2. Mr. E. R. Jinadasa Rathmaldeniya Land
07–769
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.