

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2985
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2980
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"050 – 2017 foieïn¾ ui 15 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'12'15
No. 2,050 –  fRiday ,  dEcEmbER  15, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th January, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd december, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2977-b 81234- 5,403 (12/2017)
N. B.–  Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,049 of 08.12.2017 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2978
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2979
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the Examination 
as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they should act in 
accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than the 
one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act with 
a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number and 
his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another candidate’s 
index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is considered 
as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing an index 
number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should not 
write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should 
be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer script. 
(Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written inside the 
Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been answered  
twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. Failure to abide 
by these requirements may be considered as an attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered as 
a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file cover, 
card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought into the 
Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these 
instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2980
Posts – vacant
  mINISTRy  Of  INDuSTRy  AND  COmmERCE
Recruitment to the Post of Technician of the 
Primary Technical Service Category of the 
Department of measurement units, Standards and 
Services -2017
aPPLicatioNS are called to select the qualified persons 
to fill the vacancies of the post of Technician of primary 
technical service category (PL3-2016) of this department. 
the applications prepared according to the specimen 
application mentioned at the end of this notice should be sent 
to “director, department of measurement Units, Standards 
and Services, mahena Watta, Pitipana, Homagama” by 
registered post.  “Recruitment to the Post of technician of  
the Primary technical Service category of the department 
of measurement Units, Standards and Services -2017”  
should be clearly mentioned on the top left hand corner of 
the envelop. further, name of the examination should be 
mentioned on the application in English except Sinhala and 
except tamil in tamil language applications.
(a) final date of calling applications  is 15.01.2018.
Note: complaints regarding applications that get lost and 
late at the post will not be attended. the applicants 
themselves should bear the loss incurred by delaying 
applications up to the last date.
01. Method of recruitment. – Qualified applicants will 
be recruited upon the results of a professional test and an 
structured interview. two fold of the number of applicants 
due to be recruited and who have scored 40% or more at the 
professional test conducted by the director,  measurement 
Units, Standards and Services or an institution or a panel 
of examiners authorized by him are called for the interview 
according to the marks they achieved. marks are given at 
the structured interview by the director, measurement 
Units, Standards and Services or an institution or a panel 
of examiners authorized by him according to the marking 
scheme approved by the Public Services commission.  only 
the qualified applicants are appointed to the relevant posts 
by the director, measurement Units, Standards and Services 
according to the total marks of the professional test and the 
structured interview. 
02. Conditions for recruitment and service conditions :
 (i) t his post is permanent and pensionable. contributions 
should be made for the W&oP. 
 (ii) the appointment is subject to a probationary 
period of 3 years.
 (iii) first effect bar should be passed before the lapse of 
3 years from the appointment to the Grade iii.
 (iv) The applicants should get the official language 
efficiency duly according to the official language 
policy and related Public administration circular 
No. 07/2007.
 (v) these appointments are subject to the regulations 
in the procedure of Public Services commission, 
establishment code of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka and other departmental 
orders. 
03. Salary scale.– Under the Public administration 
circular No.3/2016, the Salary Scale is PL3 – 2016                             
Rs. 25,790-10x270- 10x300-10x330- 12x350- Rs. 38,990 
and it is entitled with effect from 01.01.2020. in terms of 
provisions on the sub schedule ii of this circular, salaries are 
paid with effect from the date on which the appointment is 
effective. in addition, the allowances paid to the government 
servants by the government are entitled.
04. Duties of the post.– Giving support to the maintenance 
of the main electric system, repairs, identify the defects in 
electric circuits and minor repairs of electronic devices, 
giving support to activities of the laboratory when necessary 
and other duties assigned by the head of the institution 
relevant to the post.  
05. Qualifications :
 5.1 Educational qualifications :
  Having passed in six subjects with at least two 
credit passes at the G.c.E.(o/L) Examination.
 5.2 Professional qualifications :
  Should have obtained a proficiency certificate not 
less than NVQ level four (04) on national vocational 
skills issued by a technical/Professional training 
institute recognized by the tertiary Education 
commission relevant to categories as mentioned 
in the above 04.
 5.3 experience :
  Should have not less than 03 years experience in 
the relevant sector.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2981
 5.4 Physical fitness :
  Should be with good physical and mental health to serve any part of the country and to perform duties of the post.
 5.5 Age :
  minimum age limit is 18 years and maximum age limit is 45 years.  maximum age limit is not applicable to those 
who are already in the Government Service. (the applicants whose birthday should be between 15.01.2018 or 
before and 15.01.1973 or after can be applied).
 5.6 Other qualifications :
 (i) Should be citizens of Sri Lanka
 (ii) Should be with excellent character
 (iii) All the qualifications required for the post should have been fulfilled to the last date of calling applications.
06. Syllabus :
 6.1  Professional test :
  Professional test for the Post of technician of the Primary technical Service category of the department of 
measurement Units, Standards and Services is consisted with the following syllabus.
Question paper Syllabus Time Total marks Marks achieved
Practical test test is held relevant to the National 
V ocational Qualification level four (04) 01 hour 100 40%
 6.2 Structured interview :
  Structured interview – 100 marks
  t wo fold of the number of applicants due to be recruited and who have scored 40% or more at the professional 
test are called for the interview.  the date on which the structured interview will be decided by the director, 
measurement Units, Standards and Services. marks will be given by an interview board approved by the 
director, measurement Units, Standards and Services.
Key areas for which marks are given Maximum marks Minimum marks considered for selection
Additional educational qualifications 20  
40%
additional experience 40
Additional vocational qualifications 20
Language proficiency 15
Skills shown at the interview 05
100
Note.– Calling for the structured interview is not considered as fulfillment of qualifications for appointment.
07. examination conditions :
 (i) applicants can sit for the Professional test in any medium of language Sinhala/t amil/English as desired by the 
applicant. the medium selected is not allowed to be changed later. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2982
 (ii) application should be prepared in a4 paper 
using both sides and from No. 01 to 09 should 
be in the first page and from No. 10 to 16 in 
the second page and the rest in the third page 
of the application and should be filled clearly 
in own handwriting. the applications not 
complying to the specimen application form 
and in completed applications will be rejected 
without notice. Keeping a photocopy of the 
application will be useful.  further, before the 
application is forwarded confirm whether the 
application is complied with the specimen form.  
you are further informed that the applications 
not complying with the specimen application 
form will be rejected.  
 (iii) calling Letters are issued only for the applicants 
who have fulfilled the basic qualifications. 
calling letter and the national identity card 
should be produced to the examiner on the 
date the professional test is started. issue of the 
calling letter should not be considered that he or 
she has fulfilled qualifications for the post. 
 (iv) the authority to postpone or cancel the 
professional test is with the person authorized to 
conduct the professional test.
 (v) applicants are abide by the laws and regulations 
imposed by the authoritative person regarding 
conduct of professional test. if the laws and 
regulations are breached they will be subjected 
to punishments imposed by him. 
 (vi) Identity of the applicant.– applicants should 
prove their identity at the professional test to 
be satisfactory to the examiner.  one of the 
following documents is accepted.
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons
 (ii) Valid passport
 (iii) Valid driving license
 (vii) Note:
 (a) applications of the applicants who are 
unable to produce the documents when 
requested are not considered.
 (b) Signature of the applicant in the application 
should have been attested. the applicants 
who are already in the Government Service 
should send the applications through the 
head of the department/institution. the 
signature of other applicants should be 
attested by a School Principal, Justice of 
peace, attorney-at-law, Notary public, an 
Authorized Officer in the Armed forces, 
permanent officer in Public Service 
drawing a monthly consolidated salary of 
Rs. 27,871 or more.
 (viii) Punishment for submitting wrong information
  If it is revealed that the applicant is not qualified 
his candidature will be rejected on any occasion 
before the professional test, during the test or 
after the test.  the applicant will be liable to 
be dismissed in case of any particular specified 
above being false known by him or any important 
particular has been avoided willfully he/she will 
be liable to be dismissed.
08. Regulations of Public Services commission 
procedures, circulars issued from time to time regarding 
the Public Service and conditions of the amendments of 
the Service constitution relevant to the Primary technical 
Service are applicable to this post.
09. decisions will be taken by the Public Services 
commission on any matter that has not been mentioned in 
these regulations.
10. the authority to take a decision on any matter not 
covered by this notice rests on the director department of 
measurement Services devices and if there were to be any 
discrepancies in the notices of Sinhala, tamil and English 
medium in such an instance the Sinhala notice will prevail.  
 S.N. 
akuranthilaka,
 director(d.a.),
 measurement Units, Standards and 
 Services department.
mahenawaththa,
Pitipana,
Homagama.
24th November, 2017.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2983
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
Open COmpetitive examinatiOn fOr reCruitment tO the pOst Of teChniCian Of the primary teChniCal serviCe 
CategOry Of the Department Of measurement units, stanDarDs anD serviCes -2017
For office use
medium of language  Sinhala -02 tamil -03 English-04
 1. Name with initials in block capitals :––––––––––––––. 
Eg.: baNdaRa,  a.b 
 2.  Names denoted by the initials in block capitals :––––––––––––––.
 3. Name in full (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––––.
 4. Permanent address in block capitals (admission card will be posted to this address.) :––––––––––––––.
 5.  Gender (male - 0,female - 1) 
Put the relevant No. in the cage. 
 6. Whether married or single (married -1, single -2)
        Put the relevant No. in the cage.
 7.  Ethnicity (Sinhala-1, tamil-2,indian tamil-3,muslim-4,other-5).  
Put the relevant No. in the cage
 8.  National identity card No. :
 9.    (a) date of birth :
     y ear                                               month                           date
       (b)  age to the last date of calling applications(2018.01.15)
                   y ears                          months                       days  
 10. Educational/Professional qualifications 
  10.1  G.c.E. (o/L) Examination
     y ear……………………… index No…………………..
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
 
  10.2  Other educational /professional qualifications :
  
examination Date Institution

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2984
   10.3  Level for the professional qualification (NVQ) :
Course Institution Level (NVQ) Date of NVQ level course, completed
(Date of validity of the certificate )
  Copies of the educational certificates should be attached to the application to prove the educational qualifications.
11.    Have you been dismissed from the government service? (if so, mention in detail) or have departmental disciplinary 
inquiries been held against you (if you are still in government service)? :––––––––––––––.
12.  Have you been convicted by any court ? :––––––––––––––.
13. Certification of the applicant :
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct and i agree to abide 
by the rules and regulations applicable to candidates regarding recruitment.  i also agree with any decision taken if any 
disqualification was detected before the professional test, during the test or after the test. I am aware that I will be liable 
to be dismissed in case of any particular specified above detected being false after the appointment for the post without 
any compensation and i agree to abide by the rules and regulations applicable to candidates regarding recruitment and the 
decisions taken regarding issue of results.
. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature.
date :––––––––––––––.
            
14. Certification of the signature of the applicant :
 i do hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss…………………………….residing at ……………………….is known to 
me personally and he/she put his/her signature in front of me.
           
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature.
 (Official stamp)
Name of the attestor :––––––––––––––.   
designation :––––––––––––––.     
address :––––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––––.
15. Certification of the head of the Department(if the applicant is serving in the government service) :
i do hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss…………………………………………………………is serving at present 
in the post of ………………………………………..in this ministry/department/institution, his/her work and conduct are 
satisfactory, there are no disciplinary inquiries against him/her and no idea to carry out any of such inquiry and he/she can /
cannot be released from the present service. 
 ––––––––––––––––,   
 Signature of the head of the department/institution. 
 (Official stamp)
designation :––––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––––.
12–475

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2985
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of  PubLIC  ADmINISTRATION  AND 
mANAGEmENT 
Limited Competitive Examination of Promotion into 
Supra Grade of Public management Assistants' 
Serivce - 2017
SEctioN one of para 4, para 6 and the closing date of 
calling applications mentioned in 7(b) of the Examination 
notification for “Limited Examination to promote into Supra 
Grade of Public management assistants' Service - 2017” 
published in Gazette No. 2039 dated 29th September, 2017, 
of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, is revised as 
follows :
 (i) only the Section one of para 4 is revised as 
follows :
  Recruitment relevant to 50% of the vacancies 
of the Supra Grade as at 31.12.2017 will be 
made on the results of the Limited competitive 
Examination and accordingly, the number of 
vacancies filled will be 143.
 (ii) following notes are included to para 6 :
 (i) Note :
  The officers, who have completed the active 
period of service indicated in (a), (b), (c) 
above as per the current Grade in Public 
management assistants' Service and have 
completed the relevant Efficiency Bar 
Examination which should be completed 
in prescribed number of sittings as per 
the provisions in the Service minute as at 
31.12.2017 but are unable to complete the 
satisfactory period of service only due to 
the reason of losing the confirmation in 
service or promotion as at the closing date 
of application as a result of delaying the 
relief of Efficiency Bar Examination on 
administrative reasons, can also apply for 
this examination. 
 (ii) Note :
  However, the opportunity granted for these 
officers to apply and sit for the examination 
shall not necessarily mean that they have 
acquired a qualification to get promoted 
and the letter of promotion to Supra 
Grade is issued only after earning relevant 
confirmation/promotion having satisfied the 
completion of satisfactory period of service 
in the Public management assistants' Service. 
 (iii) the closing date of application mentioned 
in para 7(b) is extended up to 31.12.2017. 
accordingly, the applicants should satisfy all the 
qualifications as at 31.12.2017.
 (iv) it is informed that the applicants who have 
already applied to refrain from applying again. 
on the order of the Public Services commission, 
  J. J. 
rathnasiri, 
  Secretary, 
  ministry of Public administration and 
  management. 
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence Square,
colombo 07, 
30th of November, 2017.
12–477
–––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  SkILLS  DEvELOPmENT  
AND  vOCATIONAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
LimitEd REcRUitmENt to tHE PoSt of 
dEmoNStRatoR (GRadE iii) iN tHE SERVicE 
catEGoRy of maNaGEmENt aSSiStaNt 
(tEcHNoLoGicaL) SEGmENt – 03 of tHE 
dEPaRtmENt of tEcHNicaL EdUcatioN aNd 
tRaiNiNG – 2017
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from the officers in the 
posts falling within the Primary Skilled Service category 
(PL 3 – 2016) in the department of technical Education 
and Training, who have fulfilled the necessary qualifications 
in the following fields for the post of demonstrator in the 
department of technical Education and training.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2986
field
metalwork
Electrical
building construction
01. Mode of Recruitment.– Candidates who have fulfilled 
the qualifications referred to in this notification should sit 
for a Written test conducted by the testing and Evaluation 
division of the department of technical Education and 
training. candidates who secure highest marks based on the 
merit order from among those who qualify in the Written 
test wil be called for the interview to be twice the existing 
number of vacancies. Recruitment will be made equivalent 
to the number of existing vacancies based on the merit order 
of the aggregate marks of the Structured interview and the 
Written test. all candidates are required to answer a question 
paper designed to assess the candidate’s knowledge relevant 
to the field applied under the syllabus mentioned in No. 
06, and to another paper to assess General Knowledge and 
General intelligenc. the Structured interview will be held as 
per the marking Scheme mentioned in No. 07.
02. Requirements :
 i.  Educational Qualifications :
  Having passed the G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
in 06 subjects with credits to Sinhala/t amil/
English, mathematics and two other subjects in 
one sitting.
 ii.  Professional Qualifications :
  Having successfully completed a course in the 
subject field relevant to the post and belonging to 
National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 4 
from an institute recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission
  or 
  Having successfully completed a course (full-
time/part time) of 01 year or more on metalwork 
(welding/ fitting)/ Electrical/ Building Construction 
(Plumbing/masonay) from an institute recognized 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission.
 iii.  experience :
  Should have completed at least 07 years of 
active and satisfactory service in a permanent 
post falling within the Primary Skilled Service 
category (PL 3 – 2016) of the department of 
technical Education and training as at the 
closing date for applications.
 iV .  Physical Fitness :
  Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in 
any part of the island and to discharge the duties 
of the post.
 V.   Other :
  Should have completed in every respect all the 
qualifications required for recruitment to the post 
as at the closing date for applications.
03. Conditions of Employment and Service Conditions :
 (i)  this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
are subject to any policy decision made by the 
government regarding your pension scheme in 
future. further, you are liable to contribute to 
the Widow’s and orphans’ Pension Scheme/
widowers’ and orphans’ Pension Scheme. you are 
required to contribute to such fund as determined 
by the Government from time to time.
 (ii)  this appointment is subject to 01 year acting 
period. 1
st Efficiency Bar Examination should be 
passed within 03 years from the date of recruitment 
to Grade iii in the post of demonstrator, as 
mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment.
 (iii)  Notwithstanding you have obtained the prescribed 
proficiency in the other official language relevant 
to the current post, you should obtain such 
proficiency relevant to this post, as per Public 
administration circular 01/2014 and consequent 
circulars.
 (iv)  this appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules 
of the Public  Service commission, financial 
Regulations, provisions in the Establishments 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lankd and other depatmental orders.
04. Age Limit.– candidates should be not less than 25 
years as at the closing date for applications, and there is no 
maximum age limit.
05. Salary Scale.– Under mt1-2016 salary segment of 
Public administration circular 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, 
this post is entitled to the salary scale of Rs. 29,840 – 10x300 
– 11x350 – 10x560 - 10x660 – Rs. 48,890/-. Salaries will be 
paid as per Schedule ii of the said circular.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2987
06. Syllabus for the Written Examination :
Question 
Paper No.
Name of question 
paper
Syllabus Duration Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Mark
1. General 
Knowledge and 
General 
intelligence
a short question paper , to assess knowledge of 
timely, social situations and international situations 
and capability of creative thinking, ability to solve 
and analyze problems
01 hour 100 40%
2.
metalwork Engineering, communication ability technical 
drawing, fitting mechanics (Theory) Casting work
02 hour 100 40%
3. building 
construction
building construction and maintenance construction 
site surveying, water refining and waste water 
disposal, structural theory and plans, quantity 
surveying.
02 houe 100 40%
4. Electrical Electrical 
machines, power electronics and 
automotive control plant, micro-processing based 
plant, applied electrical measurements, laying of 
cables.
02 hour 100 40%
07.
fields for which marks are given at the Structured Interview :
Fields for which marks given Maximum Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 25
2. Additional Professional Qualifications 20
3. additional Experience 30
4. Language Proficiency 10
5. computer Skill 10
6. Performance at the interview 05
Total 100
08. Identity of the Candidates.– only the candidates who have forwarded complete applications in all respect will
be called for the interview. Originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should be produced at the interview.
09. Method of Application :
(i) The Application should be prepared in the form of the speciment appended to this notification, in A4 size 
paper using both sides with Section 01 to 07 appearing on the first page, Section 08 to 10 appearing on the 
second page and the rest in the next pages. the application thus prepared should be duly perfected by the 
candidate in his/her handwriting and sent under registered cover to reach “director General department of 
technical Education and training, P.o. box 557, olcott mawatha, colombo 10” before 29.01.2018. the 
words “application for the Post of demonstrator (Limited)” should be clearly indicated in the top left-hand  
corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
(ii)  applications which are not in compliance with the specimen,  containing incomplete details and those received 
after the closing date for applications will not be entertained. candidates are advised to send their applications 
well in advance to avoid the possibility of postal delay. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2988
(iii) The application should be filled in the medium
the candidate intends to sit for the examination.
(iv)  the Examination fee is Rs. 500/-, it should be paid 
at any branch of the People’s bank in the island
to be credited to the account No. 176 – 100 –
139026228 of mid –city branch, People’s bank
in the name of director General, department of
technical Education and training. the receipt
obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage
of the application form. it would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the application and the
receipt. 
the Examination fee will not be refunded
under any circumstance, and money orders and
stamps will not be accepted.
(v)  candidates should forward their applications
through the respective Heads of department.
(vi)  applications should not be sent to the name of any 
officer of the Department, and the applications
thus sent or those handed over personally will not
be accepted. No 
complaint to the effect that any
application has been lost or delayed in post will
be considered, and the receipt of the application
will not be acknowledged.
10. Examination Procedure :
(i)  the director General, department of technical
Education and training will issue admission
cards to all persons who have correctly perfected
and duly forwarded their applications. Every
candidate should produce his/her admission card
with the signature attested, to the Supervisor of
the relevant Examintion Hall. 
those who fail to
produce the admission card will not be permitted
to sit for the examination.
(ii)  travelling expenses that may be incurred by the
candidate for appearing for this examination or
any other allowances will not be paid.
(iii)  the candidate is required to prove his identity
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. 
for this
purpose, either of the following document shall
be accepted:-
(a)  National identity card issued by the
department of Registration of Persons,
(b)  a valid passport.
(iv)  the Examination will be held only in Sinhala and
tamill medium. the medium applied for cannot
be changed later on.
(v)  all candidates who have paid the prescribed fee
and sent applications on or before the prescribed
date will be allowed to sit for the examination
by the director General of the department of
technical Education and training on the prior
assumption that only those with qualifications
mentioned in the notification for calling
applications have applied. 
appearing for the
competitive Examination will not be treated as
an acceptance of the fulfillment of qualifications.
(vi) c andidates will be subject to the rules and
regulations imposed by the director General
of the department of technical Education 
and training, regarding the conduct of the 
Examination.
(vii)  the testing and Evaluation division of the
department of technical Education and training
will conduct this examination only in colombo.
11. Furnishing false information.– your candidature
is liable  to be cancelled if any information furnished in 
the application is found to be false or inaccurate, before 
the recruitment. 
if such false or inaccurate information 
is revealed after the recruitment, action will be taken for 
dismissal from service, subject to the procedure relevant 
thereto.
12.
director General of the the department of technical
Education and Training reserves the right to fill or not to fill 
the vacancies.
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
the tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
P. N. K. malalasekara,
 director General,
 department of technical Education and 
 t raining.
P.o. box: 557, olcott mawatha, 
colombo 10,
15th december, 2017.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2989
speCimen fOrm
For office use
appliCatiOn fOr limiteD reCruitment tO the pOst Of DemOnstratOr (Class iii) in the serviCe CategOry Of management 
assistant (teChnOlOgiCal segment – 03) Of the Department Of teChniCal eDuCatiOn anD training 
field applied for 
medium applied for
 1.  Name of candidate:
   (i)  Name with initials, with initials at the end (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
   (ii)  full Name (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
   (iii)  full Name (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 2.  current Post:
   (i)  date of appointment to the Post: year :–––––––––––––.  month :–––––––––––––.  date :–––––––––––––.
   (ii)  Period of Service of such Post as at the closing date for applications :-
    y ears :–––––––––––––.  months :–––––––––––––.  days :–––––––––––––.
 3.  address and telephone number:
   (i)  Official Address :–––––––––––––.
   (ii)  telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
   (iii)  Private address :–––––––––––––.
   (iv)  telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
   (v)  mobile Number :–––––––––––––.
 4.  date of birth  :year :–––––––––––––.  month :–––––––––––––.  date :–––––––––––––.
 5.  age as at closing date of applications : years :–––––––––––––.  months :–––––––––––––.  days :–––––––––––––.
 6.  National identity card Number :–––––––––––––.
 7.  Gender – male / female :–––––––––––––.
 8.  Whether married / unmarried / widowed :–––––––––––––.
 9.  Educational Qualifications :
  G.c.E. (o/L) Examination :    G.c.E. (a/L) Examination
  y ear :–––––––––––––. index No.  :–––––––––––––. y ear :–––––––––––––. index No.  :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2990
 10.  V ocational Qualifications:-
Course Year Subjects Grade Name of Institute
 11.  Particulars of Experience : 
Institution Post  Period of Service Whether a Government/ Semi-Government/Private 
Institution
 12.  computer Literacy :
  diploma :––––––––––––.
  Certificate course :––––––––––––.
 13.  Proficiency in English Language :
  diploma in English :––––––––––––.
  Certificate course in English :––––––––––––.
 14.  the Peoples’ bank branch at which the examination fee was paid :––––––––––––.
  date of Payment :––––––––––––.
Paste here the receipt firmly
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained therein are found to be false and incorrect before the selection I am liable to disqualification, and to 
dismissal without compensation if such thing is revealed after the appointment.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date  :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department / Institution :
i hereby certify that mr./ mrs./ miss………………………………… is currently serving in college of technology 
/ Technical College/ Head Officer of the Department of Technical Education and Training in the Post of…………….. and 
that his / her work and conduct are satisfactory, that no disciplinary action is pending against him/ her and no decision has 
been taken to impose any such in future, and he/she place his/her signature in my presence.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of department / institution.
date :––––––––––––.
(Official frank)
12–445/2

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2991
mINISTRy Of SkILLS DEvELOPmENT AND 
vOCATIONAL TRAINING 
Department of Technical Education and Training
oPEN REcRUitmENt to tHE PoSt of 
dEmoNStRatoR (GRadE iii) iN tHE SERVicE 
catEGoRy of maNaGEmENt aSSiStaNt 
(tEcHNoLoGicaL) SEGmENt - 03 of tHE 
dEPaRtmENt of tEcHNicaL EdUcatioN aNd 
tRaiNiNG - 2017
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from the citizens of Sri 
Lanka suitably qualified in the following fields for the post 
of demonstrator in the department of technical Education 
and training.
Field
Woodwork
metalwork
motor mechanics
Electrical
building construction
01. Mode of Recruitment.– Candidates who have fulfilled 
the qualifications referred to in this notification should sit 
for a Written test conducted by the testing and Evaluation 
division of the department of technical Education and 
training. candidates who secure highest marks based on the 
merit order from among those who qualify in the Written 
test will be called for the interview to be twice the existing 
number of vacancies. Recruitment will be made equivalent 
to the number of existing vacancies based on the merit order 
of the aggregate marks of the Structured interview and 
the Written test. all candidates are required to answer a 
question paper designed to assess the candidate's knowledge 
relevant to the field under the syllabus mentioned in                                         
No. 06, and to another paper to assess General Knowledge 
and General intelligence. the Structured interview will be 
held as per the marking Scheme mentioned in No. 07.
02. Requirements :
 i. Educational Qualifications :
  Having passed the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
in 06 subjects with credits to  Sinhala/t amil/
English,  mathematics and two other subjects in 
one sitting
 ii. Professional Qualifications :
  Having successfully completed a course in the 
subject field relevant to National V ocational 
Qualification  (NVQ) Level 05 from an institute 
recognized by the t ertiary and V ocational 
Education commission ;
or
  Having successfully completed a course (full-
time/part-time) of 03 years or more on Woodwork/
Metalwork (welding/fitting) /  Motor Mechanics 
/ electrical / building construction (Plumbing/
masonry) from an institute recognized by the 
tertiary and V ocational Education commission.
 iii. experience :
   Should have not less than 01 year experience in 
the field relevant to the post from a government 
or government registered institute.
 iV . Physical Fitness :
  Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in 
any part of the island and to discharge the duties 
of the  post.
 V.  Other :
 • Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 • Should be of excellent moral character.
 • Should have completed in every respect all the 
qualifications required for recruitment to the 
post, as at the closing date for applications.
03. Conditions of employment and Service Conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
are subject to any policy decision made by the 
government regarding your pension scheme in 
future. further, you are liable to contribute to 
the Widows' and orphans' pension Scheme/
Widowers' and orphans' pension Scheme. 
you are required to contribute to such fund as 
determined by the Government from time to 
time.
 (ii) this appointment is subject to 03 years of 
probation. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination 
should be passed within 03 years from the 
date of recruitment to Grade iii in the post of 
demonstrator, as mentioned in the scheme of 
Recruitment.
 (iii) Prescribed proficiency in the other official 
language, in addition to the language in 
which the officer joined the service, should 
be obtained within 05 years from the date of 
appointment, as per Public administration 
circular 01/2014 and consequent circulars.
 (iv) this appointment is subject to the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission, 
financial Regulations, provisions in the 
Establishments code of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and other 
departmental orders.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2992
04. Age Limit.– candidates should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date 
for applications. 
05. Salary Scale.– Under mt1-2016 salary segment of Public administration circular 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, 
this post is entitled to the salary scale of Rs. 29,840 - 10x300 - 11x350 - 10x560 - 10x660 - Rs. 48,890. Salaries will be paid 
as per Schedule ii of the said circular.
06. Syllabus for the Written examination :
 Question Name of Syllabus Duration Maximum Pass
 Paper No. Question Paper   Marks Mark
 1. General knowledge a  short question paper, to assess knowledge 01 hour  100 40% 
  and General of timely, social situations and international 
  intelligence situations and capabilty of creative thinking, 
   ability to solve and analyze problems
 2. Woodwork Woodwork (theory), Woodwork-mechanics, 02 hours 100 40%
   technical drawing, communication ability,  
   mathematics, joinery, furniture manufacturing.
 3. metalwork Engineering, communication ability 02 hours 100 40%
   Technical drawing, fitting mechanics
   (theory), casting work
 4. motor Engineering drawing and designing, 02 hours 100 40%
  mechanics Production technology, mechanic
   maintenance and power management,
   automotive technology, Petrol/diesel
   Engine, motor Vehicle Electrician
 5. Electrical Electical machines, power electronics and  02 hours 100 40%
   automotive control plant, micro-processing 
   based plant, applied electricial 
   measurements, laying of cables
 6. building building construction and maintenance, 02 hours 100 40%
  Construction Construction site surveying, water refining 
   and waste water disposal, structural theory
   and plans, quantity surveying.
07. fields for which marks are given at the Structured interview :
Fields for which marks given Maximum Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 25
2. Additional V ocational Qualifications 20
3. additional Experience 30
4. Language Proficiency 10
5. computer Skill 10
6. Performance at the interview 05
Total 100

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2993
08. Identity of the Candidates.– only the candidates who 
have forwarded complete applications in all respect will be 
called for the interview. Originals and duly certified copies 
of all certificates should be produced at the interview.
09. Method of Application :
 (i) the application should be prepared in the form 
of the specimen appended to this notification, in 
a4 size paper using both sides with Section 01 to 
07 appearing on the first page, Section 08 to 10 
appearing on the second page and the rest in the 
next pages. the application thus prepared should 
be duly perfected by the candidate in his/her 
handwriting and sent under registered cover to 
reach "director General, department of technical 
Education and training, P.o. box 557, olcott 
mawatha, colombo 10" before 15.01.2018. the 
words "application for the Post of demonstrator" 
should be clearly indicated in the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
 (ii)  applications which are not in compliance with 
the specimen, containing incomplete details 
and those received after the closing date for 
applications will not be entertained. candidates 
are advised to send their applications well in 
advance to avoid the possibility of postal delay.
 (iii) The application should be filled in the medium 
the candidate intends to sit for the examination.
 (iv) the Examination fee is Rs 500/-. it should be paid 
at any branch of the People's bank in the island 
to be credited to the account No. 176 – 100 – 
139026228 of mid-city branch, People's bank 
in the name of director General, department of 
technical Education and training. the receipt 
obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage 
of the application form. it would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the application and the 
receipt. the Examination fee will not be refunded 
under any circumstance, and money orders and 
stamps will not be accepted.
 (v) candidate's signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of a 
Government School/ a Justice of the Peace/ 
commissioner of oaths/attorney- at- Law/
Notary Public/Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed Forces or an Officer holding a permanent 
post in public service drawing a consolidated 
monthly salary of Rs. 41,580/– (as per P ac No. 
03/2016 – Schedule i).
 (vi) Officers currently in the public service or 
provincial public service should forward their 
applications through the respective Heads of 
department.
 (vii) applications should not be sent to the name of any 
officer of the Department, and the applications 
thus sent or those handed over personally will not 
be  accepted. No complaint to the effect that any 
application has been lost or delayed in post will 
be considered, and the receipt of the application 
will not be acknowledged.
10. examination Procedure :
 (i) the director General, department of technical 
Education and training will issue admission 
cards to all persons who have correctly 
perfected and duly forwarded their applications. 
Every candidate should produce his/her 
admission card with the signature attested, to 
the Supervisor of the relevant Examination Hall. 
those who fail to produce the admission card 
will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
 (ii) travelling expenses that may be incurred by the 
candidate for appearing for this examination or 
any other allowances will not be paid.
 (iii) the candidate is required to prove his identity 
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject he offers. for this 
purpose, either of the following documents shall 
be accepted:-
 (a) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (b) a  valid passport.
 (iv) the Examination will be held only in Sinhala 
and tamil medium. the medium applied for 
cannot be changed later on.
 (v) all candidates who have paid the prescribed fee 
and sent applications on or before the prescribed 
date will be allowed to sit for the examination 
by the director General of the department of 
technical Education and training on the prior 
assumption that only those with qualifications 
mentioned in the notification for calling 
applications have applied. appearing for the 
competitive Examination will not be treated as 
an acceptance of the fulfillment of qualifications.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2994
 (vi) candidates will be subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the director General of the department of 
technical Education and training, regarding the conduct of the Examination.
 (vii) the testing and Evaluation division of the department of technical Education and training will conduct this 
examination only in colombo.
11. Furnishing false information.– your candidature is liable to be cancelled if any information furnished in the 
application is found to be false or inaccurate, before the recruitment. if such false or inaccurate information is revealed after 
the recruitment, action will be taken for dismissal from service, subject to the procedure relevant thereto.
12. Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training reserves the right to fill or not to fill 
the vacancies.
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 P. N. K. malalasekara,
 director General,
 department of technical Education and training.
Po box: 557,
colombo 10,
15th december, 2017.
speCimen fOrm
For office use
appliCatiOn fOr Open reCruitment tO the pOst Of DemOnstratOr (Class iii) in the serviCe CategOry Of management 
assistant (teChnOlOgiCal segment -3) Of the Department Of teChniCal eDuCatiOn anD training 
field applied for 
medium applied for
 1.  Name of candidate:
   (i)  Name with initials, with initials at the end (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
   (ii)  full Name (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
   (iii)  full Name (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 2. address and telephone number :
   (i) Official Address :–––––––––––––.
    t elephone Number :–––––––––––––.
   (ii) Private address :–––––––––––––.
    t elphone Number :–––––––––––––.
    mobile Number :–––––––––––––.
    (any change in the address or telephone Number should be informed immediately)
 3.  date of birth  : 
  y ear :–––––––––––––.  month :–––––––––––––.  date :–––––––––––––.
 4. age as at closing date of applications : 
  y ears :–––––––––––––.  months :–––––––––––––.  days :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2995
 5.  National identity card Number :–––––––––––––.
 6.  Gender – male / female :–––––––––––––.
 7.  Whether married / unmarried / widowed :–––––––––––––.
 8.  Educational Qualifications :
   i. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination    ii. G.c.E. (a/L) Examination
    y ear :––––––––––––. index No.  :––––––––––––.  y ear :–––––––––––––. index No.  :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
 9.  Vocational Qualifications :-
Course Year Subjects Grade Name of Institute
 10.  Particulars of experience : 
Institution Post  Period of Service Whether a Government/ Semi-Government/
Private Institution
 11.  computer Literacy :
   diploma :––––––––––––.
   Certificate course :––––––––––––.
 12.  Proficiency in English Language :
   diploma in English :––––––––––––.
   Certificate course in English :––––––––––––.
 13. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or registration :––––––––––––.
  (if by registration, state details) :––––––––––––.
 14. Have you been dismissed from a Government post that you previously held ? :––––––––––––.
 15. if you are alerady in Public Service, are there any departmental disciplinary inquiries against you ? :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.12.2017
2996
 16. Have you been convicted by a court of Law ? if so, state details :––––––––––––.
 17.  the Peoples’ bank branch at which the examination fee was paid :––––––––––––.
  date of Payment :––––––––––––.
Paste here the receipt firmly
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained therein are found to be false and incorrect before the selection I am liable to disqualification, and to 
dismissal without compensation if such thing is revealed after the appointment.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Siganture of candidate.
date  :––––––––––––.
 18. Attestation of the Candidate's Signature : 
i do hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ................................ making this application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my peresence on.........................
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attestor. 
date :––––––––––––.
(this part is applicable only to the candidates already in Government employment)
Certificate of the Head of Department / Institution :
i hereby certify that mr./ mrs./ miss………………………………… is serving in this ministry/department/
institution in the post of ........................ and that his/her work and conduct ae satisfactory and that no disciplinary action is 
pending against him/her and no decision has been taken to impose any such in future. He/She can/cannot be released from 
the service if selected for the post applied for. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of department / institution.
date :––––––––––––.
(Official frank)
12–445/1
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.