

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'03'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.03.2023
wxl 2323$44 – 2023 ud¾;= ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'03'17
2323/44 – FRIDAY, MARCH  17, 2023
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG 6259 – 55 (03/2023)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
CIVIL A VIATION ACT No. 14 OF 2010 
INSTRUCTIONS issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation by virtue of powers vested in him under Subsection 4 of 
Section 23 of the Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010.
 P.A. Jൺඒൺ඄ൺඇඍඁൺ,
 Director General of Civil Aviation, 
 Katunayake.
10th March, 2023.
INSTRUCTIONS 
 Requirements to be complied with regard to the construction of  any building, tower or other structure or making of any 
alternations to any existing building, tower or other structure within Batticaloa Airport, Batticaloa protected area in respect 
of distinct lighting, marking and identiﬁ cation of any object in the neighborhood of the Batticaloa Airport, Batticaloa and on 
air routes contiguous there to, shall be as speciﬁ ed below:

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'03'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.03.2023
GENERAL
1.  These instructions shall be cited as Zoning instructions Ba tticaloa Airport, Batticaloa No. 01 
of 2023 and shall be applicable to Batticaloa Airport unless ot herwise exempt by the Director 
General of Civil Aviation in writing.
2.  These instructions shall come into eﬀ  ect from the date of issue.
3.  In these instructions, unless the context otherwise require s,
  “Act” means the Civil Aviation Act No. 14 of 2010;
  “Protected Area” means an area deﬁ  ned in the Baticaloa Airport, Baticaloa Protected Area order 
No. 01 of 2017 issued by the Hon. Minister under the subsection  1(a) of Section 23 of Civil 
Aviation Act No. 14 of 2010;
  “Aerodrome” means a deﬁ  nes area on land or water (including any buildings, installati ons and 
equipment) intended to be used either wholly or in part for the  arrival, departure and surface 
movement of aircraft.
  “Aerodrome Elevation” means the elevation of the highest poin t of the landing area.
  “Runway” means a deﬁ  ned rectangular area on a land aerodrome prepared for the land ing and 
take-oﬀ  of aircraft.
  “Instrument Runway” means a runway speciﬁ  ed for the purpose of these regulations as an 
instrument runway by the Director General of Civil Aviation in the Aerodrome Standards in Sri 
Lanka IS 30.
  “Non-Instrument Runway” means a runway other than an instrume nt runway.
  “Landing Area” means that part of a movement area intended fo r the landing or take-oﬀ   of 
aircraft.
  “Obstacle” means all ﬁ  xed (whether temporary or permanent) and mobile objects, or parts thereof, 
that:
   a) are located on an area intended for the surface movement of aircraft; or
   b) extend above a deﬁ  ned surface intended to protect aircraft in ﬂ ight; or
   c) Stand outside those deﬁ  ned surfaces and that have been assessed as being a hazard 
to air navigation.
  “Approach Area” means an area which the lateral limits shall comprise,
   (a) An inner edge 280 meters wide and perpendicular to and s ymmetrically placed 
above the extended centerline of the runway at the distance of 60 meters measured 
Citation and
applicability
Eﬀ ective date
Interpretation

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'03'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.03.2023
horizontally from each end of the runway from the direction of landing.
   (b) Two sides originating at the ends of inner edge divergin g uniformly about the 
extended center line of the runway to a width of 4,780 meters a t a horizontal 
distance of 15,000 meters from the inner edge;
   (c) An outer edge of 4,780 meters wide and parallel to the i nner edge at a distance of 
15,000 meters therefrom;
  “Approach surface” means a inclined plane or combination of p lanes laterally limited by limits of 
the approach area, commencing at the latter's inner edge level with the elevation of the midpoint 
of the threshold and extending away from the direction of landing
   (a) up to a lateral distance of 3000m with a vertical inclin ation of  50:1 and
   (b) there onward up to a lateral distance of 3600m with a ve rtical inclination of 40:1 
and
   (c) there onward with a horizontal plane terminated by a ver tical plane containing the 
outer edge of the approach area;
  “Transitional area” means an area commencing from the line or iginating at the end of the inner 
edge of each approach area, drawn parallel to the center line o f the runway in the direction of 
landing and terminated by a line at a horizontal distance 455 meters away from and parallel to the 
center line of the runway and laterally meeting the approach area;
  “Transitional Surface” menas a surface commencing from a line  originating at the end of the inner 
edge of each approach area, drawn parallel to the centerline of  the runway in the direction of 
landing and extending with a vertical inclination of 7:1 and te rminating at a height of 45 metres 
above aerodrome elevation and laterally on meeting the approach surface;
  “Inner horizontal area” means the area within a circles drawn  from the geometrical center line of 
Batticaloa runway having a radius of 4000 meters excluding the lateral boundaries of transitional 
and the appproach areas.
  “Inner horizontal surface” means a surface commencing at the outer periphery of the transitional 
surface and the lateral edges of the approach surface at a height of 45meters from the aerodrome 
elevation and terminated by the vertical plane containing the o uter periphery of the inner 
horizontal area;
  “Conical area” means an area Commencing at the outer Peripher y of the inner horizontal area and 
extending herizontally to a distance of 1500 meters;
  “Conical Surface” means a surface commencing at the outer per iphery of the inner horizontal 
surface at a height of 45meters from the aerodrome elevation an d extending horizontally to a 
distance of 1500 meters and vertically to a height of 120 meters from the aerodrome elevation;

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'03'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.03.2023
  “Outer Horizontal area” means an area commencing from the out er periphery of the conical 
area and extending radially away from the conical area and term inate at the outer periphery of 
Batticaloa Airport, Batticaloa Protected Area;
  “Outer Horizontal Surface” means, a horizontal plane located at a vertical height of 120meters 
from the aerodrome elevation extending outwards from the outer periphery of the conical 
surface and terminated at the vertical plane containing the outer periphery of Batticaloa Airport, 
Batticaloa Protected Area;
4.  (a) Except as provided in instruction Seven (7) no building , tower or structure shall be erected or 
altered and no tree shall be allowed to grow above the surfaces  corresponding to the following 
areas.
    (a) Approach area
    (b) Transitional area
    (c) Inner Horizontal area
    (d) Conical area
    (e) Outer horizontal area
  (b) Where the areas deﬁ  ned in instruction 3 have more than one height limitation, the  more 
restrictive limitation shall prevail.
5.  No use shall be made of land within any area deﬁ ned in instruction 3 in such manner as to create 
electrical interference with radio communication between the ae rodrome and aircraft or in any 
manner which might make it diﬃ  cult for ﬂ yers to distinguish between aerodrome lights and 
other lights or in any manner which might cause glare in the eyes of ﬂ yers using the aerodrome, 
impair visibility in the vicinity of the aerodrome or otherwise endanger the landing, taking oﬀ , or 
maneuvering of aircraft.
6.  No use shall be made of the land, and no building, tower or  structure shall be erected or altered, 
and no tree shall be planted in any of the areas speciﬁ ed in instruction 3, except on the authority 
of a permit issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation.
  Provided, however, that no permit shall be required for the u se of the land or for the erection or 
alteration of a building, tower, structure or for the planting of a tree,
   (a) in the area lying outside the transitional area where th e height of the building, 
tower, structure or tree is not more than 20metres in height above aerodrome elevation;
   (b) in the area lying within the limits of an approach area whether instrument or 
otherwise but at a horizontal distance of not lesss than 1,800 meters from each 
end of the runway, where the height of the building, tower, structure or tree is not 
more than 20 meters above the aerodrome elevation;
  The applications required for the submisssion is available an d download from www.caa.lk 
website. Applicable chargers are as indicated in the gazette issued under Civil Aviation Authority 
Height
Limitations
Land use
Restrictions
Permits

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'03'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.03.2023
fees and charges Regulation. The relevant application for a per mit shall state the purpose for 
which it is required and shall be addressed to the Director General of Civil Aviation. The issue of 
a permit and the conditions subject to whcih it is issued shall be at the discretion of the Director 
General of Civil Aviation. In case of a building, tower or a st ructure where Housing and Town 
Improvement ordinance is applied, permission should be obtained from the local authority under 
above ordinance or any other relevant Act or Acts in addition t o the permission of the Director 
General of Civil Aviation.
7.  Marking, lighting and identiﬁ  cation of obstacles should be done in accordance with the 
requirements speciﬁ ed in Implementing Standards 30 - Aerodrome Standards in Sri Lanka issued 
by the Director General of Civil Aviation.
8.  The name of the owner or the company name of the operator o f communication tower or wind 
turbine and the telephone number of the oﬃ  cer who maintains the tower/wind turbine shall be 
indicated at the site, in black inscription in a yellow color background to be clearly visible.
9.  Power to demolish unauthorized structures is depicted in th e subsection 5 of section 23 of the 
Civil Aviation Act No. 14 of 2010.
EOG 03-0212
Marking and/or 
Lighting of 
obstacles
Power to 
demolish the 
unauthorized 
structures
Information to be 
displayed in 
communication 
towers and wind 
turbines
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.