

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03'03'2025
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
wxl 2426$15 – 2025 ud¾;= ui 03 jeks i÷od – 2025'03'03
No. 2426/15 – MONDAY, MARCH 03, 2025
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG7039 – 05 (03/2025)
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL , COUNCIL
An Order made under Section 223 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act. No. 15 of 1987 to be read with section 2 of the 
provincial council (Conseqnential provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
I, A.A.C.J. Rajaratne , Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Province, hereby notify  that the following order hereafter mentioned 
is declared as per the powers vested in me under Section 223 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with 
Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
I further announce that the said regulations shall come into effect on 01st Of  March 2025.
                                                                                                                     
    A.A.C.J.R
AJARATNE,
                                                                                                       Governor of  Sabaragamuw a Province.
At the Sabaragamuwa provincial Governor's Ofﬁ ce,
On 20th of February 2025.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03'03'2025
 2A
In Sabaragamuwa Province, Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha jurisdiction, Kalawana Pradeshiya Sabha jurisdiction. Deraniyagala 
Pradeshiya Sabha and Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha jurisdictions to reduce the public suffering due to climate change, to reduce 
the loss of life and property caused by that and to minimize the impact on the lives of the general public, in the event of an 
emergency as well as before and after the disaster situations, to determine the management strategies to be implemented by 
the aforementioned local government bodies in the areas of jurisdiction and to coordinate the related legal authorities with the 
relevant Pradeshiya Sabhas and to determine the regulatory and post evaluation processes, as the requirements have arisen 
to restore the powers granted to the above-mentioned local government bodies by the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, 
this Order is made with the purpose of improving the resilience of the community to climate change by the above mentioned 
Pradeshiya Sabhas in Sabaragamuwa province within their jurisdictions and to confer upon those local government bodies the 
relevant provisions to formalize the necessary mechanisms to minimize the damage caused by them.
2. All the Pradeshiya Sabhas named in the ﬁ rst paragraph of this Order shall act according to the actions mentioned hereafter in 
order to create a social background that can properly implement the necessary management plans to minimize the impact caused 
on the normal lives of the public due to conditions such as the ﬂ oods, landslides, land subsidence, strong wind conditions, rock 
fall, tree fall and drought and ﬁ re, which are caused within their local council area as a result of climatic changes.
3. Each regional council named in the ﬁ rst paragraph of this Order shall take all actions to carry out within its area the powers 
and functions conferred on that Pradeshiya Sabha by written law for the purposes mentioned in that paragraph, in coordination 
with other legal authorities related to climate change and disaster management and in accordance with the strategies described 
later in this rule.
4. (1). A climate change and disaster management committee consisting of the following persons shall be for each Pradeshiya 
Sabha related to this Order to advise the Pradeshiya Sabha in relation to the implementation of the actions mentioned in 
paragraphs (2) and (3) by each Pradeshiya Sabha.
(a)  Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha
(b)  Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
(c)  An of ﬁ cer related to the subject of disaster management nominated by the Divisional Secretary
(d)  The Medical Of ﬁ cer of Health in relation to the area or a nominated ofﬁ cer
(e)  Of ﬁ cers in charge of Police Stations in relation to the area or an ofﬁ cer nominated by him
(f)  Three representatives of Rural Disaster Committees functioning in the area
(g)  Three representatives of voluntary organizations operating in the area
(2). This committee shall meet at least once in three months and the meetings shall be held online or by any other suitable 
method. The chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be the chairman of the disaster management committee under this Order, 
and it shall be the duty of the Secretary to maintain the records related to the committee and to report to the provincial main 
committee on climate change and disaster management described later in this Order.
5. Through the identiﬁ cation by the Pradeshiya Sabhas mentioned in this Order of the places and regions that may be more 
affected by the damages and disaster situations caused by climate change within the jurisdiction of such Pradeshiya Sabhas, 
the nature of the possible disasters and the measures that can be taken to minimize the possible impact shall be identiﬁ ed by 
coordinating with the relevant stakeholders in each of those regions. Based on the matters of climate change and disaster 
management, an action plan for the ﬁ nancial years prepared by the climate change and disaster management advisory 
committees of the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha, shall be approved by every Pradeshiya Sabha related to this Order in the current 
year for the coming ﬁ nancial year.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03'03'2025
 3A
6. In the Pradeshiya Sabhas named in this Order, the Chairman shall act to allocate ﬁ nancial provisions in the budget document 
for the ﬁ nancial years for the implementation of the action plan mentioned in paragraph 5 of this Order.
7. Every Pradeshiya Sabha shall take all possible steps to establish and maintain a disaster unit to facilitate the activities related 
to the management of climate change and disaster situations.
8. When the provisions of the Housing and Town Development Ordinance No. 19 of 1915 apply to the development work and 
building construction in the areas identiﬁ ed as disaster-prone areas of any Pradeshiya Sabha jurisdiction related to this Order, 
the ground plans and building plans applicable to the construction shall be subject to the prior approval of the Chairman and the 
related strategies and measures must be prescribed by the by-laws to be enacted by the Pradeshiya Sabha to the extent of the 
power given by the principle law for that purpose.
9. When the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 apply in relation to the development activities 
and building construction carried out in the areas identiﬁ ed as disaster-prone areas in any Pradeshiya Sabha jurisdiction related 
to this Order, those powers shall be exercised by the delegated authority of the local government in accordance with the powers 
assigned by the Urban Development Authority.
10. The main drain system on both sides of the road within the jurisdiction should be maintained unobstructed so that water can 
ﬂ ow easily and diverting the main drains to a proper water connection and in the case of drains which are belonging to another 
legal authority, the Pradeshiya Sabha shall take action to get that function done from that authority.
11. It is the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to act under the provisions mentioned in the relevant written law regarding illegal 
reclamation, illegal construction, illegal soil cutting, illegal sand dumping, setting forest ﬁ res in the relevant region and to 
report to a relevant legal authority to do so according to the circumstances and to act subject to the provisions of the written law 
regarding the blockage of waterways ﬂ owing to main water basins.
12. Terms for the use of ferries maintained along main waterways shall be prescribed by by-laws subject to the provisions of 
the principal law.
13. The Pradeshiya Sabhas related to this Order shall have every building for residential and commercial use in the areas with 
a high risk for landslides in their jurisdiction documented with information under each coordinate.
14. According to the zone classiﬁ cation identiﬁ ed by the National Building Research Institute, ﬂ oor plans and building plans 
under the high risk and risk zones for landslides should not be given approval for any development work unless subject to the 
terms and conditions of that institute.
15. Among the Pradeshiya Sabhas to which this Order is applicable, when any Pradeshiya Sabha area or any of its land area has 
been identiﬁ ed by the National Building Research Institute as an area prone to landslides or subsidence, the persons residing in 
that area shall be given awareness on how to minimize the possible damage in the event of a landslide or subsidence disaster,
(a). Through thorough awareness programs
(b). By displaying bulletin boards containing constant points of interest,
(c). By distributing pamphlets on emergency preparedness measures,
(d). By advising the public on safety measures to identify disasters early through sensitive campaigns.
16. A member or an of ﬁ cer representing the Pradeshiya Sabha shall join the rural disaster committees, which are currently 
operating under the Divisional Secretariats.
17. In consultation with the Climate Change and Disaster Management Advisory Committee of the Pradeshiya Sabha 
appointed under Section 4 of this Order and the Rural Disaster Committees, the following matters related to the coordination of 

<!-- page 4 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03'03'2025
 4A
preparatory activities and maintenance of necessary services in a situation of climate change and disaster management within 
the jurisdiction shall be reviewed.
a) Preparedness for climate change and disaster mitigation
b) Maintaining coordination activities related to climate change and disaster situations.
c) Relief activities under respective disaster conditions
d) Disaster Management Functionality of the Jurisdiction
e) Matters to be addressed in the regional study regarding climate change and disaster situations that may occur due to climate 
change and subsequent measures related thereto.
18. Climate Change and Disaster Management Consultative Committees of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall act to identify and 
maintain information about the parties from whom support can be obtained in the respective division for the management of 
different disaster situations in the jurisdiction or a certain part.
19. The land use in the area identi ﬁ ed by the National Building Research Institute as landslide prone areas should be in 
accordance with the parameters given by that institute and in order to reduce the possible impact on the environment by 
controlling the matters of cutting of the banks so as to minimize the slope, improper waste disposal, blocking of natural 
waterways, development of roads within the jurisdiction, construction of new roads, weight control for vehicles that can travel 
on the roads, action should be taken to prepare by-laws subject to the provisions of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
20. Notice boards shall be displayed physically too in every way possible in the mapped areas with hazards and high risks such 
as landslides, fall of hillocks, rock falls, land subsidence and ﬂ oods.
21. An organized program should be prepared and implemented to carry out the relevant investigations by coordinating the 
relevant mediating agencies on whether the landslide and ﬂ ood warning signs are kept in operating condition.
22. The respective Pradeshiya Sabha shall take action to conduct a proper census of the water sources that are used or not used 
for drinking water requirement and situated within the Pradeshiya Sabha area and maintain the following information related 
to it.
(a) Name of the water source
(b) Location of the water source
(c) Grama Niladhari division
(d) Ownership of the land where the water source is located
(e) Access
(f) Nature of Use
23. The relevant Pradeshiya Sabha shall make bylaws subject to the provisions of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No 15 of 1987 
in relation to the matters such as protection of water sources for drinking water security within the jurisdiction, enjoyment of 
water sources for human consumption, control of forest clearing affecting water sources, control of forest ﬁ res and distribution 
of water.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03'03'2025
 5A
24. It shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to coordinate the institutions of the Building Research Institute, Disaster 
Management Centre, Bureau of Geology and Mines, to take measures to pre-identify areas with a dangerous situation of 
rock fall in any Pradeshiya Sabha jurisdiction, mark the boundaries so as to indicate the danger of such zones, and ﬁ x notices 
indicating the risk of rock fall.
25. In relation to the control and management of public health care facilities due to excavation related mining industry and the 
suppression of the possible harm caused by the gathering of water in such places in any Pradeshiya Sabha area related to this 
Order, the said Pradeshiya Sabha shall make by-laws subject to the provisions of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
26. In order to protect the public from any damage that may occur to the public due to the maintenance of telecommunication 
towers or any other excavations of mines within the Pradeshiya Sabha areas related to this Order, such Pradeshiya Sabhas shall 
make by-laws subject to the provisions of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
27. It shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to act in accordance with the powers conferred by written law to remove trees 
or parts of trees on the sides of roads within the jurisdiction which are a danger to the public, and to make by laws subject to 
the provisions of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 to prescribe the policy for planting trees on property boundaries.
28. In the event of a drought which is caused due to lack of proper rain, it shall be the duty of every Pradeshiya Sabha, to which 
this Order is applicable, to prepare a proper plan for water supply and water distribution in agreement with related government 
institutions and other local government institutions, to provide the necessary facilities to implement the plan, and to take all 
possible measures to protect the water catchment areas within the areas.
29. There shall be a main committee consisting of the following of ﬁ cers to supervise the implementation of the provisions 
mentioned under this Order by all the Pradeshiya Sabhas to which the Order is applicable, the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha shall 
maintain the activities of the climate change and disaster management committee under section 4 of this Order and the reports 
related to such committee shall be submitted to the main committee by the secretary of each Pradeshiya Sabha.
30. (1) The composition of the main committee under this order shall consist of the following persons and shall meet at least 
once in three months.
(a). A Deputy Chief Secretary nominated by the Chief Secretary of the Sabaragamuwa Province
(b). Two ofﬁ cers to be nominated by the District Secretaries of Ratnapura and Kegalle
(c). The Commissioner of Local Government of Sabaragamuwa Province
(d). Chairmen of local government bodies related to this order
(e). Sabaragamuwa Provincial Health Director
(e). Assistant Commissioners of Local Government of Ratnapura and Kegalle Districts
(2). A Deputy Chief Secretary nominated by the Chief Secretary of Sabaragamuwa Province shall be the Chairman of the Main 
Committee and the Local Government Commissioner of Sabaragamuwa Province shall be the convener of the Committee.
31. This order shall be subject to the provisions of the Sri Lanka Disaster Management Act No. 13 of 2005.
32. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this order, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
E0G 03-0005
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.