

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1883
1883
wxl 1"778 - 2012 iema;eïn¾ 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'09'28
No. 1,778 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 28, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1886
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1886
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th October, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th
October, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,777 of 21.09.2012 was not published.
The Catalogue of books printed quarterly in July– September, 2009 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1884
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1885
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1886
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
SRI  LANKA  EDUCATIONAL  ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICE
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in
Class III – 2012
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in Class III in the Sri Lanka Educational Administrative
Service will be held in 2013 January in Colombo.
02. The Syllabus and other provisions relating to this
Examination have been published in the Gazette Extraordinary of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,225/32
dated 01.03.2002. The syllabus and other provisions are indicated
below for convenience.
Examination Procedure :
(a) The First Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the
following subjects :
Subject Number 01 General Administration -
Constitution of Sri Lanka.
Provision of the Establishment
Code and other regulations of
the government.
Subject Number 02 Finance
Subject Number 03 Education, Educational Law,
Administration and
Supervision.
(b) An Officer may take up the subjects of the 1st Efficiency
Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or on
separate occasions.
Posts – Vacant
SRI   LANKA   RAILWAY   DEPARTMENT
Recruitment of Railway Sub-Station Masters on Contract Basis
I hereby inform that the Wanawasala Sub-station is included to the vacant Sub-stations in the notice of calling applications which has been
published in the Government Gazette on 24.08.2012 to be recruited Sub-station masters on contract basis to Sri Lanka Railway Department.
According to the above amendment the closing date of accepting applications is extended up to 12.10.2012 is declared.
B. A. P. ARIYARATHNA,
General Manager Railways.
At the Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Colombo 10,
On the 12th of September, 2012.
09–1154
(c) Each paper will be of 3 hour duration.
03. Syllabus of Examination :
(01) General Administration  :
(a) The Ceylon Government Order in Council, 1946 and
1947 (Chapter 973) ;
The Citizenship Act, No. 18 of 1948 (Chapter 349) ;
The constitution adopted and enacted on 22nd May,
1972 ;
Registration of persons eligible to vote - Act No. 44 of
1980 ;
Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 19 of 1981 ;
Referendum Act, No. 07 of 1981 ;
Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981 ;
The constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(b) Office and Field Organization Methods :
The Establishment Code and other Government
Regulations ;
Chapters I, II, III, IV, V , VI, VII, IX, X, XI, XVI, XXV ,
XXVI, XXVII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII,
XLVII, XLVIII of the Establishment Code.
(02) Finance :
(a) The Financial Regulation of the Government – Part I
(Except Chapter I) ;
(b) The Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure of the
current year, e. g.- their arrangements ; the Head of
Revenue, Finance and Appropriation Acts ;

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1887
* School supervision by the District Departments
and the Ministry of Education ;
* Validation of Internal Evaluation by External Teams.
(Candidates are advised to be through with the
Circulars, Manuals and other publications issued
by the Ministry of Education).
Reference :–
* Asian Institutes of Educational Planning and
Administration (1970) ;
* Modern Management Techniques in Educational
Administration ;
* A Report of a Seminar - New Delhi ;
* Barry and Tye (1975) Running a School - Temple
Smith London ;
* Bush T. Glatter, R. Good, C. Riches, (eds. 1980)
Schools ;
* Approaches to School Management, Harper and
Row ;
* Dr. Khan Mohideen Sheriff (1983) School
Administration, New Delhi ;
* Ministry of Education - Education in Ceylon
(1969) ;
* A centenary Volume Part II, Part III Ministry of
Education and Cultural Affairs, Ceylon ;
* Open University (1981) Policy Making,
Organization and Leadership in Schools (Block 4
of Course E 323) Open University Press London ;
* Shipman, Murten (1983) in School Evaluation,
Heineman Education Books, London ;
* Report on the Management Reforms in the
Ministry of Education 1984.
(04) Candidates should obtain 40% of the total marks allocated
for each subject for a pass.
(05)  Language medium of the examination :
(i) Candidates can answer the question papers either in
the Official Language or in the National Language ;
(ii) Candidates can answer in the Language medium of the
Competitive Examination he passed to enter the Public
Service or if there was no competitive Examination,
Language medium of qualifying examination to enter
the Public Service.
(06) If it is detected that a candidate has answered the question
papers in a language medium for which he is not entitled
his/her candidature will be cancelled. He will not be allowed
to change the language medium applied for, at a later stage.
(c) Ordinances and other Legislation relating to Specific
Accounts delat with in Education Offices.
(03) Education, Educational Law, Administration and
Supervision :
(a) Education Law – Candidates are excepted to be familiar
with following Ordinances and Acts of Parliament :
* Education Ordinance No. 31 of 1939 ;
* Amendment Ordinance No. 26 of 1947 ;
* Amendment Act, No. 05 of 1951 ;
* Amendment Act, No. 43 of 1953 ;
* Code of Regulations for Government Schools ;
* Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 05 of 1960 ;
* Assisted Schools and Training Colleges
(Supplementary Provisions) Act, No. 08 of 1961 ;
* Education (Change of Designations) Act, No. 35
of 1973 ;
* Pirivena Act, No. 64 of 1979 ;
* The Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 1981 ;
* National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of
1985.
(b) Education Administration :–
1. Policies of the Ministry of Education :
(i) Ministry of Education ;
(ii) Organization and functions of the Ministry of
Education and the Departmental Institutions
under the Ministry including District
Department ;
(iii) Educational planning at National and Regional
levels ; Aims and objectives, methods (including
school mapping), implementation etc.
2. School Management, School community
relationship ;
3. Educational Management Information Systems ;
4. Special Education Programmes.
(c) Educational supervisions  :
* Scheme for school supervision and criteria used in
evaluation of teacher performance ;
* Continuous evaluation programmes in School ;
* Self evaluation programs in Schools ;

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1888
(07) Application should be prepared and submitted by using a
A4 size paper in conformity with the specimen form
indicated below. (Item 01 to 06 should appear in the first
page and the remaining items should appear in the second
page). In the Sinhala application the name of the
examination should be indicated in English in addition to
Sinhala and in the Tamil application the name of the
examination should be indicated in English in addition to
Tamil. Relevant Information in the application should be
clearly written in candidate's own handwriting.
Applications which are not in conformity with the
specimen form and those which are incomplete will be
rejected without notification. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the application with the candidate.
Candidates should be vigilant as to whether the duly
completed application is in conformity with the specimen
form and it should be noted that the application will be
rejected if it is not so.
(08) The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examination and the candidates are bound by
the rules prescribe by him for conducting examinations.
These rules are indicated at the end of this notification.
(09) Applications should be forwarded under registered post
through Heads of Departments addressed to the
Commissioner General of the Examinations. Organizations
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka, Examinations
Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, to be received on
or before 31.10.2012. Name of the Examinations should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Any application received after this date will be rejected.
(10) Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the
candidates a news paper notification to that effect will be
published by the Department of Examination. If the
admission cards are not received even after 02 or 03 days
of the newspaper notice it should be notified to the
Department of Examinations according to instructions in
the newspaper notice. A certified photocopy of the
application retained with the candidate, the registration
receipt and the fax number for sending the admission card
if the candidate is resident outside Colombo should be
sent to the Department of Examinations. A copy of the
letter of request sent to the Department of Examinations
should be retained with the candidate. (Fax No. : 011-
2784232) :
(i) Name of Examination ;
(ii) Full name of candidate ;
(iii) Address of the candidates in full ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered letter
number and Post Office.
(11) Complains from candidates who fail to fulfill the
requirements indicated in para 9 above will not be
considered.
(12) At the examination hall it is the responsibility of the
candidates to produce evidence in proof of their identity
and for this purpose only the Identity Card issued by the
Department of Registration of Persons or a valid passport
will be accepted.
(13) Fees for examinations will be charged as follows. The
relevant examination fee should be paid at any District or
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to revenue head 2003-
02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The
receipt obtained for the payment from the District/
Divisional Secretariat should be pasted in the relevant
box of the application form. (It is advisable to retain a
copy of the receipt with you)
(a) First sitting (fees won't be levied for the whole
examination or part of it) ;
(b) Thereafter, for each sitting : Rs. cts.
For the whole examination 1,000 0
For one subject 500 0
(14) The issue of an admission card should not be considered
an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications
to appear for the examination.
S. M. G
OTTABAYA JAY ARA THNA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
"Isurupaya",
Battaramulla.
APPLICATION FORM
(for official use only)
F
IRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF
THE SRI LANKA EDUCA TIONAL SERVICE – 2012
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha III jeks mka;sfha ks,Odßka
i|yd jk ld¾hlaIu;d lvbï úNd.h - 2012
(To be forwarded to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
by registered post through the Head of the Department)
Language medium for the examination :
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Relevant number to be written within cage)
(Name of examination should be written on the top left corner in
the envelope).

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1889
01. ( a) Name with initials with initials at the end (English capital
letters) :–––––––––––.
Example : SILV A, S. A.
(b) Name denoted by initials  :–––––––––––.
(in English capital letters)
02. Address :
(i) Official Address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address  :–––––––––––.
(iii) Address for dispatch of admission card (in English capital
letters)  :–––––––––––.
(iv) Telephone No.  :–––––––––––.
03. Subjects offered with subject numbers as indicated in para
02(a) in the notification to be written clearly :
Subject Number Subject  :–––––––––––.
Subject Number Subject  :–––––––––––.
Subject Number Subject  :–––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No.  :–––––––––––.
05. Date of birth :
Y ear Month Date
06. (i) Designation  :–––––––––––.
(ii) Department/Zonal Education Office/Divisional Education
Office/School  :–––––––––––.
07. State whether you have appeared for this examination
previously, in whole or in part and if so state year, subjects
and medium in which answers were written :
Y ear Subject Medium
..................... ..................... ....................
..................... ..................... ....................
..................... ..................... ....................
08. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the
medium indicated in para 06 above. I also agree to abide by all
the rules and regulations of the examination. I also declare that
I will be subject to the rules and regulations to be imposed
relating to this examination by the Commissioner General
Examinations.
09. Details of the receipt :
(i) Name of the Secretariat Office where you paid the
examination fee :–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt Number and Date :–––––––––––.
(iii) The Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Paste the receipt received after payment here.
(A photocopy to be retained by the candidate) only if relevant
–––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
DIRECT  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  GRADE  III  OF
SRI LANKA   ACCOUNTANTS'  SERVICE  ON
MERIT  BASED ON  PROFESIONAL
QUALIFICATIONS – 2012
APPLICATIONS are called for recruitment to the post of
Accountant Grade III of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service as per para
7.4 of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants' Service
published in the Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic Sociaist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1670/33 dated 10.09.2010. The
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen form given
below should be sent by registered post addressed to the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury (A). General Treasury, Ministry of
Finance and Planning, Colombo 01 on or before 25.10.2012. The
words "Application for the Posts of Accountant Grade III of the
Sri Lanka Accountants' Service" should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
02. Method of Recruitment.– Officers will be selected on marks
scored by them at the structured interview conducted by a Board of
Interview appointed by the Public Service Commission after calling
for applications from persons who possess following qualifications,
in order to fill 32 vacancies in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants'
Service. Candidates can face the structured interview any one
language of their choice.
03. Conditions of Service.– Selected candidates will be appointed
to Grade III of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service subject to procedural
rules of the Public Service Commission and conditions prescribed
in the minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants' service published in the
Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka No. 1670/33 dated 10.09.2010 and amendments made thereto
or to be made hereinafter. Further, candidates should acquire language
proficiency as per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007.
04. The selected officers should pass the First Efficiency Bar
Examination within 03 years from the date of appointment.
Commissioner General of Examination :
Submitted,
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear as above is
eligible to sit this examination and that he/she is entitled to sit in the
language medium indicated by him/her in para 6.
I mention further that the receipt for payment is affixed above (*).
–––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of the
Head of the Department and Official Frank.
Date :–––––––––––.
(*) To be deleted when payment of fees is not requested.
09–723
––––––––––––––

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1890
Structure and monthly salary scale. – Monthly salary scale as
per salary code SL 1-2006- of the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006. Monthly salary scale -SL1-2006-
Rs. 22,935 - 10x 645 - 8 x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Two
Efficiency Bar Examinations prior to steps Rs. 24,870 and
Rs. 26,805).
05. Professional Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed the Final Examination of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka ; or
(ii) Should have passed the Final Examination of an Institute
of Charted Accountants in a Commonwealth Country ; or
(iii) Should have passed the Final Examination of an Institute
of Charted Management Accountants in a Commonwealth
Country ; or
(iv) Should have passed Final Examination of the Institute of
Charted Certified Accountants ; or
(v) Should have passed the final Examination of Association
of Charted Certified Accountants of United Kingdom.
06. Physical Fitness.– All candidates should be physically fit in
all aspects to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
07. Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be of excellent moral character ;
(iii) A person holding priesthood in any of the religious sects
will not be eligible to face the structured interview as per
7.4.3.3 of the service minute  of the Sri Lanka Accountants'
Service.
(iv) Date of eligibility.– A candidate will be deemed to have
fulfilled necessary qualifications for appointment to the
service if he/she has completed the above mentioned
qualifications in all aspects on the date of publication of
the Gazette Notification calling for applications. Copies
of certificates should be attached to the application in
support of qualifications.
08. Age limit.– Candidate should be not less than 22 years of age
and not more than 35 years of age on the date of publication of the
Gazette Notification.
09. Candidates should forward following documents along with
the application :
(a) A copy of Birth Certificate ;
(b) Copies of the certificates of Highest Educational and
Professional Qualifications ;
(c) Two testimonials (one of them should be from the
Principal/Lecturer or Professor of the University/
Institution).
10. Marking scheme of the Structured Interview is as follows :–
Heads for allotting Maximum Pass marks
marks marks
Professional Qualifications 50
Educational Qualifications 20
Experience 15 40
Computer Literacy 10
Board of Interview 05
100 40
11. An Officer who is already in the Public Service/the Provincial
Public Service should forward his/her original application through
their Heads of the Department to reach the Deputy Secretary to
the Treasury, (A), The General Treasury, Ministry of Finance and
Planning, Colombo 01. A copy of the application may be directly
forwarded to the same address before the closing date of
application.
12. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared by the candidate
himself/herself strictly in accordance with the specimen
form given in this notification on A4 sheet of paper size.
(b) Item No. 01 to 05 of the application should be on the
first page. The application should be in the Language in
which the candidate is eligible to face the interview.
However, the Heading should be written in English (Block
Capitals) when preparing the application.
(c) Incomplete applications are liable to be rejected. No
appeal will be considered in respect of loss of application
in the post and the application received after the closing
date.
(d) If any of particulars furnished by candidate is found to
be incorrect and has been done so within his/her knowledge
or that he/she has willfully suppressed a material fact he/
she will be liable to be disqualified to receive an
appointment. If already in service they shall be liable to
be dismissed.
12. The final decision of filling all the existing vacancies or part
of them will be taken by the Pubilc Service Commission.
14. Selected candidates should pass First Efficiency Bar
Examination in the following subjects prior to the confirmation in
his/her post at the end of the probation period :
(i) Government Financial Procedures ;
(ii) Law and Management ;
(iii) Administration ;
(iv) Report Writing and Presenting Information to the
Management.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1891
15. Appointments to the Sri Lanka Accountants' Service will be
made by the Public Service Commission. An officer will be on
probation for a period of three years and will be confirmed in his/
her post at the end of the probation period on successful completion
of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and prescribed Sinhala/
Tamil prpficiency test.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the notices
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English language, the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
By the order of the Public Service Commission,
P. A. A
BEYSEKARA,
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
General Treasury,
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
On this 28th day of September, 2012.
Direct Recruitment to the Grade III of Sri Lanka
Accountants' Service on merit based on Professional
Qualifications – 2012
No. :
(For office use only)
Medium of interview :
Sinhala – 1,  Tamil – 2,  English – 3
(Please write relevant number in the cage) Changing of medium
indicated is not allowed.)
01. 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(In capital letters) Ex. : Mr. SILVA, A. B.
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(An officer in the Public or Provincial Public Service
should give his official address. Any change of address
should be communicated immediately.)
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :––––––––––––.
3.2 Age as at 28.09.2012 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
04. Gender :
Female Male
05. Whether married or single :
Married Single
06. Highest Examination passed in Language Proficiency :
(i) Sinhala (ii) Tamil (iii) English
(1)
(2)
(3)
07. Academic/Professional and Technical qualifications :–––––––.
(Please give details of all degrees, distinctions, professional
and/or technical qualification etc. obtained with date and class
secured if any, subjects offered and names of institutions)
08. Present occupation and previous appointments, please indicate
the date of appointment, date of departure, the last annual
salary received and the reason for termination of employment :
Post From To Annual Salary Reason for
(Rs.) termination of
employment
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
09. Have you been charged in a Court of Law for any criminal
offence ? If so, state full particulars with dates, quoting number
of case :––––––––––––.
10. Any further particulars :––––––––––––.
11. Give the names and addresses of two persons, other than whose
certificates of character are being furnished known to you from
whom particulars about you could be obtained :
(1) –––––––––––––
(2) –––––––––––––
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
information contained herein are found to be false or incorrect. I am
liable for disqualification/dismissal without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1892
Certificate of the Head of Department
Recommendation of the Head of the Department if the candidate
is in the Public Service or the Provincial Public Service.
I hereby certify that the candidate named Mr./Mrs./Miss
............................ has been serving at the ........................ as a Public
Servant/Provincial Public Servant, since ............... and his work
and conduct has been satisfactory.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature and the Official Seal of
the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
09–1231
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Class III Grade II of
the Registrar Service – 2012
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for recruitment to the Posts
of Registrar Class III Grade II of the Registrars' Service in the
Registrar General's Department.
02. Examination.– Recruitment will be made according the highest
marks of the result of written exam conduct by Commissioner
General of Examination in January, 2013. Exam will be held in the
towns mentioned below and the numbers denoting the town also
given below Commissioner General of Exam has the power to cancel
and change the exam center where the enough application is not
required.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Jaffna 10
Ampara 16
Anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Head of the Department regard the power to postponed or
cancel the exam.
03. Conditions of Service. – Recruitment to the Class III Grade
II of Registrar Service will be made subject to the general conditions
governing appointments in the Public Service and on the following
conditions :–
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates should make contribution to the Widow/
Widower and Orphans Pension Fund. They are also
subject to the Establishments Code and Financial
Regulations.
(ii) Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, orders made
under rules and regulations of this will apply on this regard.
Sections 10 to 12 of Chapter 11 of the Establishments
Code and regulations under Chapter 1 of Public Service
Commission of Republic of Sri Lanka will also apply on
this regard.
(iii) An officer appointed to service should undergo a training
as determined by the Secretary of the relevant Ministry.
(iv) New entrant officer to the public service will be subject
to a probation period of three (03) years.
(v) Candidates who are already in public service will be
appointed on acting basis for one year.
(vi) The candidates should pass the written Efficiency Bar
Examination before lapse of 3 years from appointment.
No exemption from this Efficiency Bar will be granted on
the basis of age.
(vii) On confirmation in the post the officers selected from the
Public Service will cease to be a member of the former
service and will have no right of reversion to that service.
04. Salary Scale. – MN-5-2006(A) - Rs. 167,205 - 10x320 -
11x3,650 - 15 x 450 - Rs. 30,685. [Circular 6/2006(iv)].
05. Age limit.– Applicants should not be less than 21 years and
not more than 35 years of age on the closing date of application.
06. Qualifications.– The following qualifications should have
completed as at 28th of September, 2012 :
(i) Applicants should be Sri Lankan and Applicants should
have good character ;
(ii) Graduates from the Universities recognized by
University Grants Commission ;
(iii) Attorney-at-Law who have passed the final examination
of the Law College and have completed all required
qualifications as a Attorney-at-Law.
07. Method of recruitment. – Selections will be made at an
interview held for the highest scorers of the competitive examination
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination for the
qualified candidates who were selected after calling for applications
through a notice in the Governemnt Gazette . 40% of marks should
be obtained in each subject in order to pass the Examination.
Candidates who have the highest aggregate of marks will be
summened for an interview in the descending order of such marks,

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1893
the interview will be held only for the purpose of scrutiny of
certificates.
08. Examination Fee .– The examination fee is Rs. 750. The
receipt obtained on payment of this fee to the District/Divisional
Secretariat under the revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 the
Commissioner General of Examination before the closing date of
applications should be pasted in the relevant place given in the
application. The fee is not refundable. Retaining a photocopy of
the receipt with the candidate will be useful in future.
09. Method of application :
(a) The application should be in conformity with the
specimen appended to this notice. Name of Examination
indicated at the top of the specimen application should
be written in English in addition to Sinhala in the Sinhala
application and should be written in English in addition
to Tamil in the Tamil application. It should be prepared
on a paper sized 8 1/2" x 12" using both sides. Nos. 1-7
in the specimen application should be included in page
01 and the rest in page 02. The application which are not
in conformity with the specimen and incomplete
applications will be rejected without prior notice. It may
be useful to retain a photocopy of the application by the
candidate.
(b) The application should be filled in the language in which
the candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
(c) The applications for the post should be sent under the
registered cover to the Commissioner General of
Examinations Sri Lanka, Department of Examinations,
Palawatta, Battaramulla, on or before the 30.10.2012
"Competitive Examination Class III Grade II posts in
the Registrar Service" should be clearly written on the
top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application. Applications received after the closing date
will not be accepted.
Note.– Candidates in the Public Service/Provincial
Public Service should send their applications
through the respective Heads of the their
Department/Organization.
(d) Applications which have not been duly completed will
be rejected. No complains regarding applications lost or
delayed in the post will be entertained.
(e) Receipt of an application will not be acknowledged.
Commissioner General of Examinations will send the
admission cards under registered cover to the candidates
one week before the date of examination. A candidate
who does not receive his admission card at least seven
days before the date of examination should notify the
Commissioner General of Examination, with the
following particulars :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the candidate ;
(iii) Address ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registration number
and Post Office.
10. Admission to the Examination Centre :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all candidates whose applications have
been received. A candidate presenting himself for the
examination must produce his admission card to the
Supervisor of the examination Center. A candidate who
fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted
to sit for the examination.
(ii) A candidate must sit for the examination at the
Examination Hall assigned to him. Every applicant should
observe the general rules and regulations that should be
observed by the candidates for examinations.
(iii) The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit for the examination.
11. Identity of the candidate.– A candidate will be required to
prove his identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose any of the
following documents will be accepted.
(i) An Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport issued not more than three years prior to
the date of examination ;
(iii) Valid postal Identity Card issued by the Post Master
General.
12. Furnishing False Information.– If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior
to or during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by a candidate, who is in the Public Service, is found to
be false with his knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed any
important fact, he will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
13. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be dealt
with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
14. Method of Examination :
(i) Medium :
(a) Candidate may apply for the Examination in one of
two mediums, ie. : Sinhala/Tamil ;

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1894
(b) Every candidate should answer the question papers in
the language which is stated in the application ;
(c) No candidate will be allowed to change the medium of
language indicated in his/her application.
(ii) Subjects and syllabus :
Should be passed the written exam in the following
subjects :
Subject Subject Time Maximum Passing
No. Marks Marks
Intelligence 01 01 hour 100 40
General Knowledge 02 01 hour 100 40
Language & Essay 03 01 hour 100 40
Syllabus :
Question paper Syllabus
Intelligence Intelligence will be measured through an
Question Paper examination whcih consists of a question
contents 50 small paper designed to test the candidate's
questions rational and analytical skills and ability to
arrive at rational conclusion in association
with non-verbal clues.
General knowledge General knowledge will also measured
Question Paper through an examination which consists of
contents 50 small a question paper designed to test the
questions, Answers candidate's knowledge about social and
should be given to cultural styles of Sri Lanka, locally and
all questions internationally important current affaris
and scientific and technical development.
Language and Essay The Language and Essay question paper
Small questions and which is prepared to test skills and
should be answers ability includes letter writing, preparing
all questions of schedules and hand writing etc.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
28th September, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF
REGISTRARS CLASS III GRADE II OF THE REGISTRAR SERVICE – 2012
For official use only
Medium :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
(Sinhala – 2) (Tamil – 3)
* Mentioned the Town and No. as given in the Gazette.
Town Town No.
1
2
01. (i) Last name followed with initials (in English Block
Capitals) :––––––––––.
Ex. SILVA  A. B.
(ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
02. Full Address :––––––––––.
Permanent residence address :––––––––––.
(in English Block capitals)
(i) Permanent residence district :––––––––––.
(ii) Address to which the Admission Card should be sent (in
English block capitals) :––––––––––.
03. Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(write the relevant number in the cage)
04. Marital Status :
Married – 1
Single – 2
(write the relevant number in the cage)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. (i) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at .................
Y ears : Months : Days :

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1895
07. Under which paragraph of the notice of examination do you
qualify to apply for the examination ? 6(II) or 6(III) :
7.1 If under para 6(II)
Degree :––––––––––.
Qualified Date :––––––––––.
7.2 If under para 6(II) :
Date of the ........... at Supereme Court as Attorney-at-
Law :––––––––––.
08. Paste the cash receipt here
Particulars of receipt :
(i) Office where the payment :––––––––––.
(ii) No. and date of receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the candidate :
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief all the
information given in this form is true and I have affixed cash receipt
No. .................. dated ................. in payment of the examination
fee. I also to be bound by the rules governing examinations and any
decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to or
after the examination. If it is found that I am ineligible according to
the regulars of the examination of do dismiss me from the post
without compensation if the inaccuracy detected after the
appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
09–845
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of
Technical Officer Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service – 2012
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with
requisite qualifications for the Open Competitive Examination for
recruitment to the above posts.
02. Based on the results of the written examination to be held by
the Commissioner-General of Examination, suitable candidates who
have fulfilled the required qualifications will be selected for
appointment to the Post of Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka
Technological Service for the Ministry of Agriculture.
03. Age limit. – Not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years as at closing date of application. The upeer age limit will not
be applicable to those who are already in the Public Service or
Provincial Government Service.
04. (a) Grade III :
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Pass in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) with credit
passes for Language or Literature, Mathematics, Science
and another one subject in not more than two sittings ;
and
(ii) Pass in 03 subjects at the G . C. E. (A/L) with
Pure Mathematics/Ap plied Mathematics/Combined
Mathematics and Physics in one sitting.
Professional Qualifications :
(a) Together with educational qualifications referred to at
(a) above, the applicants should possess one of the
following professional qualifications.
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the
University of Moratuwa or HARDY College in
Ampara ; or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by
National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority ; or
(iii) National Diploma in Higher Engineering awarded by
the Ministry of Education and Higher Education ; or
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open
University of Sri Lanka ; or
(v) Successful completion of Part I of the Engineering
Examination to be held by the Engineering Institute
of Sri Lanka ;
(vi) Any other qualification acceptable to the Sri Lanka
Technological Services Board as equal to above
technological qualifications in all aspects.
Educational Qualifications. – Having passed G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in one sitting with three science subjects of
which two subjects being applicable to the relevant field
and G. C. E. (O/L) examination in not more than two
sittings in 06 subjects with credit passes for Language or
Literature, Mathematics, Science and one other subject.
Professional Qualifications .– Certificate of National
Technology (03 year part time course) applicable to the
relevant field obtained from a Technical College recognized

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1896
by the Government together with basic educational
qualifications referred to above.
* Following the submission of a certificate issued by
the respective institution to the effect that one-year
theoretical and practical training applicable to the
syllabus has been successfully completed, the
applicants who are qualified to trainee grade of the
Technological Service at the Open Competitive
Examination will be placed at the initial step of the
Salary Scale of Grade III.
* If there are applicants who are unable to pass the
examination to be held at the end of training, they have
the opportunity to get the training period extended
not more than 06 months. The services of Apprentices
who failed at the examination to be held at the end of
that extension will be terminated.
05. As per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 the salary
scale for this post is MN 3-2006 A i. e. Rs. 15,005-180 x 4- 240x6
- 320 x11 - 360 x 20 - Rs. 27,885.
The officer should pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination
prior to having the 4th salary increment and should acquire
proficiency in Second Official Language before the lapse of 05
years from the date of appointment as per Public Administration
Circular No. 7/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
06. Conditions of Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable ;
(ii) The selected applicants will be attached to the
Ministry of Agriculture ;
(iii) Selected applicants are liable to serve in any part of
the island.
(iv) Selected applicants are subject to 03 years probation
period and those who are already in the state service
are appointed on one-year acting basis.
(v) The selected applicants will be required to function
subject to the relevant provisions of the Establishment
Code and Financial Regulations, Departmental Orders
and other Orders that may be issued by the
Government from time to time.
07. (I) Scheme of Recruitment.– This examination will be held in
December, 2012 only in Colombo by the Commissioner
General of Examination under the supervision of the
Technological Services Board.
(II) Method of holding the examination :
(i) The examination will be held in both Sinhala and
Tamil medium. Applicants are nto allowed to change
the applied medium later.
(ii) The applicant should answer all qeustion papers he/
she is appearing only in one language.
(iii) Candidates are subject to rules and regulations laid
down by the Commissioner General of Examination
in holding this examination. In the event of those
rules/regulations being violated by any candidate, he/
she is liable to be punished by the Commissioner
General of Examination.
(III) Subjects of the Examination.– The examination consists
of two question papers :
1. Intelligent Question Paper ;
2. Paper in Technology.
08. Syllabus :
(i) IQ test
Duration : 01 hour
Total marks : 100
Question are prepared to ascertain the candidate's logical
and analytical thinking and decision making.
(ii) Question Paper in Technology
Duration : 03 hours
Total marks : 100
This paper is consisting of questions to test the candidate's
knowledge on fundamentals of building constructions,
drawing of construction plans, comprehension, water
supply, drainaged and waste disposal.
The priority list will be prepared based on aggregates of marks
obtained by candidates who have secured 40% of marks or above in
respect of each question paper.
* The applicant should bring geometric and other necessary
tools to the examination hall required for replying the
question paper.
09. Punishments for furnishing false information.– The applicant
is responsible for filling the application furnishing the accurate
information in terms of rules and regulations of the examination. It
is revealed that an applicant has furnished false information in the
Application, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any time
before, during and after the examination. If it is revealed that false
information have been furnished or correct information have been
purposefully concealed by on applicant, he/she is liable to be
dismissed from service. Issuing on Admission for examination is
not an acknowledgement that the applicant has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
10. Examination fees. – The examination fee is Rs. 500. This
sum may be paid to any Divisional Secretariat or District Secretariat
in the name of Applicant under Head 2003-02-13 of Commissioner
General of Examination and the receipt thereof should be pasted in
the relevant cage of the application. (Applicants are advised to
keep a photocopy of the same). The examination fees will not be
refunded under any circumstances. Money Orders or Stamps will
not be accepted.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1897
11. Method of applying :
(a) Applications should be prepared by Applicants
themselves in A4 (21x29cm) (normal half sheet) size
papers in conformity with the specimen form by :-
(i) Inclusion of Paragraphs 01-03 in the first page ; and
(ii) Paragraphs 04 onward in the other pages ;
(iii) Applications not prepared according to the Specimen
Application form as well as incompleted applications
will be rejected without any notification. It will be
useful keeping a photocopy of the application with
the applicant. Also the applicant should exercise due
care to ensure whether the application has been filled
in accordance with specimen form in the Gazette
Notification. When preparing Sinhala and Tamil
applications, the name of the examination should be
wirtten in English as well.
(b) The completed applications for the Examination should
be sent to the following address by registered post on or
before 22nd October, 2012.
Commissioner General of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
The Department of Examination,
Palawatta, Battaramulla.
The top-left hand corner of the envelope should be clearly
written as "Recruitment to the post of Technical Officer-
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Technological Service 2012"
Application received after this date will not be accpeted.
(c) Soon after posting Admissions to the applicants, the
Department of Examination will publish a press notice
to the effect. If the Admission is not received after 2 or 3
days from that notification, that should be brought to the
notice of the Department of Examination as has been
instructed. In such instances, it will be more effective if
a copy of the application and the receipt of the payment,
receipt of registration and the letter of request with a fax
number used for sending Admission, if the area is located
outside Colombo are sent to the Department of
Examination.
12. One of the following document should be submitted to the
Chief of the Examination Hall to prove identify of Applicants :
1. Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons ;
2. Valid Passport.
13. The Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home
Affairs will take decisions on any matter not referred in this
notification. All applicants are bound to act in conformity with
common rules and instructions for candidates referred to in the
Gazette.
W. S
AKALASOORIYA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture.
Ministry of Agriculture.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
TECHNICAL OFFICER-GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE – 2012
(for office use only)
Medium of Language appearing for the Examination :
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
(Write relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials (In Block Letters) :––––––––––.
Eg. PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the Admission should be sent) :–––––.
(In Block Letters)
2.4 Postal Town :––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Male – 0
Female – 1
(write relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 24.09.2012 :
Years : Months : Days :

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1898
3.4 Telephone No. :
4.0 Educational Qualifications :-
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index No.  :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index No.  :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.0 Technological Qualifications :-
Institute Courses Period Pass Number and Date
followed of the Certificate
6.0 Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
7.0 If the applicant is already in the Public Service :–
7.1 Address of the Department/Institution :––––––––––.
7.2 Present Post :––––––––––.
7.3 Period of service :––––––––––.
7.4 Whether permanent and pensionable or temporary :
––––––––––.
8.0 Have you been convicted by courts on any day for any charge ?
(Tick the relevant cage) (If the answer is "Yes" furnish details)
  Yes                                    No
9.0 Details regarding the receipt of payment of Examination fees :
(i) Office at which the payment was made :–––––––––.
(ii) Receipt Number and Date :–––––––––.
(iii) The amount paid :–––––––––.
Paste the receipt here
10.0 Certification or Applicant :-
(a) Information furnished herein by me is true and correct to
the best of my knowledge. I agree to bear any loss
occurring due to an omission and/or incorrectness in filling
this application and I declare that this application is duly
filled.
(b) I am also aware that I will be disqualified before
appointment if this declaration is proved to be false and
is liable to be dismissed from service if the detection is
made after appointment.
(c) Also I am bounded by rules and regulations made by the
Commissioner General of Examination regarding the
holding of examination and releasing results.
(d) I assure not to change any information contained herein.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
11.0 Attesting the signature of Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Miss/Mrs. ................................... submitting
this application is known to me personally and he/she has put his/
her signature before me on ....................... he/she has paid the
examination fee the receipt of which has been pasted.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Officer
Attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Full name of Attesting Officer :–––––––––.
Post :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Official frank)
09–1261

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1899
DEPARTMENT  OF  IMMIGRATION  AND
EMIGRATION
Limited/Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
the Posts of Authorized Officers – 2012/2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from the Sri Lankan citizens with the
following qualifications for the posts of Authorized Officers in the
Department of Immigration and Emigration. Recruitment will be
done on the results of the competitive examination and out of the
vacancies to be filled 60% will be recruited on the results of an
Open Competitive Examination whereas the remaining 40% will be
recruited on the results of a Limited Competitive Examination,
conducted for the State/Provincial Public Service Employees. 10%
of the total number of vacancies will be reserved for female
candidates.
02. Receipt of Applications. – Applications should be prepared
by the candidate, following the model application given at the end
of this Gazette Notification using both sides of A4 size paper
(21x29cm) including Sections 1.0 to 5.0 in page one, 6.0 to 12.0 in
page two and the other sections in page three and the applications
to be filled by the candidate's own hand writing. Applications non
conformity with the model application would be refused without
any notification. (Keeping a photocopy of the application could be
useful.) In preparing application it is compulsroy to mention the
name of the examination as appears on the top of the examination
notification in English in addition to Sinhala Language in Sinhala
medium applications and in addition to Tamil Language in Tamil
medium applications. The applications filled in the respective
language, should be sent in order to be reached to "Commissioner
General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination
Division, Examination Department of Sri Lanka, Pelawatte,
Baththaramulla" under registered post on or before 31st October,
2012.
(a) On the top left-hand corner of the envelope either the
word "Application for the Post of Authorized Officer
Open Competitive Examination - 2012/2013" for the Open
Examination or for the Post of the Authorized Officer -
Limited Competitive Examination - 2012/2013" for the
Limited Examination should be indicated. If he/she applies
under both streams "only one application" should be
submitted, the words "Application for the post of
Authorized Officer - Limited and Open Competitive
Examination – 2012/2013" should be mentioned.
(b) Candidates who are already in Public Service/Provincial
Public Service should forward their applications through
their respective Departments/Institutions.
(c) Applications will not be acknowledged. Complains of a
loss of applications and other documents or delaying in
the mail will not be entertained.
(d) Application that do not conform to the requirements of
this notification and received after the due date will be
rejected.
03. Identity.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity
to the satisfaction of the supervisor at the examination centre for
every subject they sit and any of the following documents will be
accepted as proof of Identity :–
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Sri Lankan Passport.
04. False Information.– If found that a candidate does not possess
the required qualifications, his candidature will be cancelled before
the examination, during the examination or after the examination. If
it is revealed that a candidate has knowingly forwarded false
information or has concealed important information deliberately,
he would be dismissed from the state service.
05. Salary Scale .– The salary scale as stated in the Public
Administration Circular 6/2006(iv) - MN5-2006A Rs. 16,720 -
10x320 - 11x365 - 15 x450 - Rs. 30,685 is entitled for this post and
the salary will be paid according to the provisions of that circular.
Selected candidates should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination
before reaching the fourth salary step.
06. Examination Fee.– To apply under either stream, examination
fee will be Rs. 800 and if apply under both streams the fee will be
Rs. 1,000. This examination fee can be made through any of the
District Secretariat or a Divisional Secretariat in order to be credited
to the Revenue Head No. 2003-02-13. The receipt should be affixed
in the relevant cage of the application and the number of the receipt,
date of the payment and the name of the issuing office should be
stated in the appliation. This payment will not be refunded for any
reason (Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful).
07. Age Limit.– Applicants whose age is not less than 21 years
and not more than 35 years as at the closing date of the applications
are eligible to apply for the open recruitments. The above upper
age limit does not apply for the limited examination.
Note.– An applicant's physical suitability should be as
follows. A male applicant's height should be a minimum
of 5 feet 04 inches (162.5cm) and the chest should be a
minimum of 32 inches (81.25cm). The height of a female
applicant should be a minimum 05 feet 02 inches (156cm).
08. Conditions of Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. An officer
appointed as a new recruit should contribute to
Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Fund with a percentage
of the salary, as determined by the government at
different time. The appointment will be subjected to a
probation period of three years. Procedural Regulation
issued by the Public Service Commission by the
Extraordinary Gazette Notification  No. 1589/30 and
dated 20.02.2009 will apply.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1900
(ii) If a permanent officer already in the Public Service/
Provincial Service and has been confirmed in his/her
appointment, is selected, his/her position will be
subjected to a testing period of one year.
(iii) Selected cand idates should acquire second language
proficiency as per the Public Administration Circulars
No. 7/2007 and 7/2007(i) within a period of five (05)
years from the date of appointment. Salary increments
of those who are unable to acquire second language
proficiency in time will be differed.
(iv) Selected candidates must work at night in the airports
and sea ports islandwide.
09. Educational and other Qualifications :–
(a) Open Competitive Examination :
A degree from a recognized University and a minimum of
credit pass for English Language at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination or minimum of a "B" pass for English
Language at the N. C. G . E. Examination.
(b) Limited Examination :
Public Servants who have completed at least 10 years of
active service in a position/positions for which the salary
scale is MN-1 or above as per the Public Administration
Circular No. 6/2006(iv), are eligible to apply for this
post.
(i) Applicants should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) in
six (06) subjects in not more than two sittings with
four credit passes including credit passes for
Mathematics, English and Sinhala/Tamil language ;
and
(ii) Should have passed at least one subject in G. C. E.
(Advanced Level) Examination excluding Common
General Test.
10. Every candidate should prepare to produce originals of the
following documents when call upon to do so :
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) The highest educational certificate ;
(c) Two character certificates obtained recently.
11. Candidates should secure minimum of 40% marks for the
consideration for interview (in each subject). No marks will be
given at the interview and those who have fulfilled required
qualifications and scored highest marks at the examination will be
selected at the end of an interview conducted by a board, approved
by the Public Service Commission.
(i) Examinations will be conducted at Colombo, in Sinhala,
Tamil and English mediums and the date for the
examination will be noticed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. The medium mentioned in the
applications cannot be changed later.
(ii) The admission cards would be posted to the address
mentioned in the application. All candidates are bound to
obey the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examination and the candidates
who violate any of these rules and liable to any punishment
at the discretion of the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(iii) In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, the
Sinhala Text shall prevail.
(iv) Issuing an admission card should not be considered as the
candidate is qualified to sit the examination.
12. Method of Selection.– Written Examination :
(a) Open Competitive Examination :-
(i) Intelligence Test and General Knowledge - One hour
- 100 marks.
* Logical reasoning skills and decision making skills
of the candidates will be tested. Candidates'
knowledge on social, economic and political issues
of Sri Lanka in the recent past and knowledge on
global politics, science, technology and new
scientific inventions will also be tested. The paper
will be designed accordingly with short answers
and/or multiple choice questions. Candidates should
answer all the questions.
(ii) English Language - Two hours - 100 marks.
* Questions are designed to test the comprehension,
written and communication skills of the candidates.
Should answer all the questions.
(iii) Computer Skills - One hour - 100 marks.
* Will test the candidates' knowledge on basic
computer programmes like MS Word and MS Excel
- should answer all the questions.
(b) Limited Competitive Examination :-
(i) Comprehension and General Knowledge - Two hours
- 100 marks.
* Comprehension, presis-writing skills and analytical
skills of the candidates will be tested. Candidates'

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1901
knowledge on social, economic and political issues
of Sri Lanka in the recent past and knowledge on
global politics, science, technology and new
scientific inventions will also be tested. The paper
will be designed accordingly. Candidates should
answer all the questions.
(ii) English Language - Two hours - 100 marks
* Questions are designed to test the comprehension,
written and communication skills of the candidates.
- should answer all the questions.
(iii) Computer Skills - One hour - 100 marks
* Will test the candidates' knowledge of basic
computer programmes likes MS Word and MS Excel
- should answer all the questions.
13. A newspaper notification will be published by the Sri Lanka
Department of Examinations, immediately after the issuance of
admission cards to the candidates. Those candidates who are not in
receipt of their admission cards 2 or 3 days within the notification
should inform to the Department of Examinations. It would be
more effective to make this request along with a copy of the
application, a certified copy of the receipt of the admission fee,
register post receipt, a fax number to send the admission if the area
is outside of Colombo.
14. The Controller General of Imigration and Emigration will
have the sole authority to decide on the number of vacancies to be
filled and the date of recruitment. The Controller General of
Immigration and Emigration will also have the sole authority not to
give appointments to one or more candidates who have got through
both the qualifying examination and the interview.
15. It should be noted that the general conditions stipulated for
state services appointments and the instructions and the regulations
applicable to candidates sitting for examinations in Part I(IIA) of
this Gazette Notification will apply to this examination.
In accordance with the powers delegated by the Gazette
notification No. 1733/52 dated 25.11.2011, of the Public Service
Commission.
W. A. C. P
ERERA,
Controller General of Immigration and
Emigration.
Department of Immigration and Emigration,
No. 41, Ananda Rajakaruna Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
21st September, 2012.
DEPARTMENT OF IMMIGRA TION AND EMIGRATION
L
IMITED/OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE
POSTS OF AUTHORIZED OFFICERS – 2012/2013
(Office use only)
Examination Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
Examination applied for
Limited - 1/Open - 2
Open and Limited both - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage above).
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials (initials at the end) :––––––––––––.
(In block letters) Eg. : PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil language)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In block letters the admission will be posted to this
address)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil Language)
2.3 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
2.4 Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
(Personnel/Official)
3.0 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage above)
4.0 Race :
1 - Sinhala 2 - Sri Lankan Tamil
3 - Indian Tamil 4 - Muslim
5 - Burger
(Write the relevant number in the cage above)
5.0 Civil status :
Married - 2
Unmarried - 1
(Write the relevant nubmer in the cage above)

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
1902
6.0 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
Age as at 31.10.2012 :
Years : Months : Days :
7.0 The langauge stream which you did the examination to obtain
your qualification to apply this post :––––––––––––.
8.0 Educational Qualifications :
(i) Degree :––––––––––––.
(ii) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Name of Examination Year Subjects with Grades
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
9.0 Physical requirements :
(i) Height :––––––––––––.
(ii) Circumference of chest :––––––––––––.
10.0 Details of the present post :
(i) Designation :––––––––––––.
(ii) Department/Ministry :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of the first appointment :––––––––––––.
(iv) The date you were made permanent :––––––––––––.
(v) Salary scale :––––––––––––.
(vi) Present annual salary :––––––––––––.
11.0 Have you been found guilty by a Court of Law ? :––––––––.
If so, give details :––––––––––––.
12.0 Have you been dismissed from the Public Service ? :––––––.
13.0 Payment of examination fee :
Affix the receipt of the payment here firmly.
Keep a copy of the receipt with you.
Please Note.– The receipt issued for the payment of examination
fees, in accordance with the Gazette notification, should be
affixed in the above cage firmly.
(a) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(b) The office payment was made :––––––––––––.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(c) Date :––––––––––––.
(d) Amount : Rs. –––––––––––.
14.0 I hereby certify that all the information given in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief. I have affixed the cash receipt No. ....................
dated ........... being the payment of the examination fee. I
accept any decision taken on cancelling my candidature if I
am found to be ineligible for this position before, during or
after the examination. Further I declare that I am bound by
the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in relation to conduct of this
examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
15.0 (i) Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................... who
forwards this application is personally known to me and he/she has
paid the relevant examination fee and the receipt is affixed in the
application. He/she signed this document on .................. 2012 before
me.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(ii) Certificate by the Head of Department (Only for the
candidates sitting the limited competitive examination.)
I certificate that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... is employed
as ............... in the ....................... and the information given by
him/her in this application are true and correct. In the event he/she
is selected to this post he/she can/cannot be released.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Official Stamp :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
09–1264