

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
731
wxl 1"930 - 2015 wf.daia;= ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'08'28
No. 1,930 – FRIDAY ,  AUGUST 28,  2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices for
publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from
the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th September, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th September, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall  be
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W.  A.  A.  G.  FONSEKA,
Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... 732
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
By-Laws ... 734
Posts - V acant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
731

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
732
Appointments &c. by the Governors
APPOINTMENTS BY THE HONORABLE GOVERNOR OF NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE UNDER THE
SENTENCE 32(1) OF SECTION (IV) OF ACT No. 42 OF 1987
No. Name/Service/Grade Appointed Post/Office Effective Date
01 Mrs. Niluka K. Jayawardhane
SLAS Grade III
02. Mr. D. M. R. P. Dasanayaka
SLAS Grade II
03 Miss P. D. S. K. Gunapala
SLAS Grade III
04 Mrs. W. M. D. M. Weerawansha
SLAS Grade III
05 Mr. B. M. N. R. Sampath
SLAS Grade III
06 Mrs. T. U Keeragala
SLAS Grade III
07 Mrs. Niluka K. Jayawardhane
SLAS Grade III
08 Mr. K. A. S. S. Piyanatha
SLAS
09 Mr. D. M. U. Sarath Kumara
SLAcct.S Grade I
10 Mr. N. M. S. D. B. Karunathilaka
SLAcct.S
1 1 Mr. G. G . C. Premakumara
SLAcct.S Grade I
Appointed as Post of Acting Director of the Sports Unit to the Ministry of
Health, Indigenous Medicine, Sports and Youth affairs (NWP) from the
letter dated 21.10.2014 with immediate effect in addition to the permanent
post.
Appointed as Post of Deputy Land Commissioner to the Provincial Land
Commissioner’s Department (NWP) from the letter dated 07.01.2014 with
immediate effect.
Appointed as Post of  Assistant Chief Secretary (Establishments) to the
Chief Secretariat (NWP) from the letter dated 25.02.2015 with immediate
effect.
Appointed as Post of Assistant Chief Secretary (Establishment) to the
Chief Secretariat (NWP) from the letter dated 24.03.2015 with immediate
effect on service requirement.
Appointed as Post of Assistant Director for acting to the post at Chief
Ministry (NWP) from the letter dated 01.09.2014 with immediate effect.
Appointed as Post of Assistant Secretary to the Ministry of Health,
Indigenous Medicine, Sports and Youth affairs (NWP) from the letter dated
28.05,2015 with immediate effect.’
Appointed as Post of  Deputy Director (Administration) for acting in full
time basis to the Health Department (NWP) from the letter dated 28.05.2015
with immediate effect.
Appointed as Post of Accountant to the General Hospital Kuliyapitiya from
the letter dated 23.04.2015 with immediate effect.
Appointed as Post of  Accountant for acting to the Post until the appointed
exist vacancy of suitable officer to the Agricultural Department (NWP)
from the letter dated 13.05.2014 with immediate effect in additional to the
permanent post.
Appointed as Post of  Accountant for acting to the post until the appointed
exist vacancy of suitable officer to the Municipal Council Kurunegala from
the letter dated 03.06.2015 with immediate effect in additional to the
permanent post.
Appointed as Post of  Chief Accountant (Budget) to the Chief Secretariat
(NWP) from the letter dated 09.07.2015 with immediate effect.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
733
12 Mrs. D. S. K. Darmawardhane
SLAcct.S Grade III
13 Mr. H. N. B. Abayawardhane
SLPS Grade III
14 Mr. A. D. J. D. Darmadasa
SLSS Grade III
15 Mrs. N. M. C. M. N. Thalgodapitiya
SLEg.S Grade I
16 Mr. B. R. S. B. Basnayaka
SLEg. S Grade I
17 Mr. I. M. S. Bandara
SLEg. S Grade I
18 Miss K. P. P. Sriyalatha
SLEg. S Grade I
19 Mr. H. A. D. Hettiarachchi
SLRS Grade I
20 Mr. W. A. J. Subasinghe
SLAPHS Grade I
Appointed as post of Accountant to the Education Department (NWP)
from the letter dated 09.07.2015 with immediate effect.
Appointed as Post of Assistant Director (Planning) to the Provincial
Planning & Monitors Division (NWP) from the letter dated 25.02.2015
with immediate effect.
Appointed as Post of Chemist to the Provincial Director General of
Health Services Office from the letter dated 02.12.2014 with
immediate effect.
Appointed as Post of  Provincial Director to the Irrigation Department
(NWP) from the letter dated 25.02.2015 with immediate effect.
Appointed as Post of Provincial Director for acting for the Post until
the appointed exist vacancy of suitable officer to the Engineering
Department from the letter dated 25.02.2015 with immediate effect
in additional to the permanent post.
Appointed as Post of  Additional Director to the Engineering
Department (NWP) from the letter dated 28.04.2015 with immediate
effect.
Appointed as Post of Provincial Director to the Engineering
Department (NWP) from the letter dated 28.04.2015 with immediate
effect.
Appointed as Post of Provincial Commissioner to the Revenue at
Department Provincial Revenue (NWP) from the letter dated
06.05.2015 with immediate effect.
Appointed as Post of  Additional Provincial Director to the Provincial
Animal Production & Health Department from the letter dated
01.04.2015 with immediate effect.
By order of the Honorable Governor,
N. P. M. Kariyawasam,
Governor’s Secretary.
On August, 2015,
At Governor’s Office (NWP).
08-687
No. Name/Service/Grade Appointed Post/Office Effective Date

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
734
By-Laws
EMBILIPITIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
WE shall notify that the following by-laws are enacted by the Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the administrative authority
of the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council, under the power granted by Article 122 and Article 126 of Act, No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya
Sabha Laws, and these by laws are approved by the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragamuwa Province under the power granted
to him by Article 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
MAHIEPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government.
Sabaragamuwa Province.
08th July, 2015.
SUB STATUTE ON OBTAINING INFORMA TION AND REPORTS PERTAINING TO RECOVERING TAXES WITHIN THE
LIMITS OF PRADESHIY A SABHA
01. This Sub Statute is called and referred as the Sub Statute on obtaining information and Reports pertaining to recovering a Tax or
Fee on the issue of a Permit regarding Trade, Profession or Industry situated within the area of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. Through this Sub statute it is expected to regularize, administrate and maintain relevant information and reports in order to recover
any possible tax or any other fee.
03. Provisions and conditions stipulated in this sub statute will take effect and be valid from the date of publishing this sub statute in the
Gazette.
04. This Sub Satute is applicable for businesses and industries described in Schedule No. 01 and situated within the area of Embilipitiya
Pradeshiya Sabha.
05. Every person who involved in businesses or industries mentioned in Schedule No. 01 above is bound to provide any information or
report requested by Pradeshiya Sabha of Embilipitiya that may required to recover any tax or fee which is to be paid to Pradeshiya Sabha of
Embilipitiya pertaining to businesses or industries maintained described in Schedule 01 of 4th Statute hereto.
06. The Sabha has the right and powers to change above mentioned information or reports as amended or improved documents as
needed by the Sabha which forwarded according to Second Schedule hereto mentioned in Statute 5 above.
07. The persons concerned should take necessary measures to deliver by hand or sent by post information or reports mentioned in this
sub statute within 30 days from the date of notice made by the Secretary. Every document which is delivered by hand has to be handed over
to the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer authorized by the Secretary.
08. It is the duty of Pradeshiya Sabha to verity the receipt of such information or reports that were so handed over within 30 days as
per above sections. That verification has to be made by Pradeshiya Sabha through a letter, receipt or any other manner.
09. In case relevant information are not received within the said 30 days and if the Sabha may think that these information are needed,
Chairman, Secretary or any other authorized officer of the Sabha are empowered by this sub statute to visit business or industry concerned and
request such information and reports or inspect such venues.
10. In case of any project/industry started after this sub statute been published in the Gazette, Proprietor or Manager of such project
or industry should inform that to the Pradeshiya Sabha within 30 days from its commencement.
11. Any change of such a business/industry has to be informed to the  Chairman or Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha within 30 days
from such change.
12. It is the duty and responsibility of business holder or industrialist to provide needy information separately in the schedule in case of
a several businesses/industries/professions are carried out in the same venue.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
735
13. Negligence to provide information and reports requested by this sub statute within the due period of time or providing fals e
information is considered an offence. If guilty for this by any court of law following punishments could be imposed.
(i) Fine not more than Rs. 750 under Section 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
(ii) In breaching or neglecting provisions of sub statute or forwarding false information after a written order by the Secretary
or Chairman of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha, an additional fine more than Rs. 250 could be imposed.
14. Definition :
The ‘Sabha’ which term or expression as herein used shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said
Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha , the ‘Chairman’ means and include to the said Chairman of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha, the ‘Secretary’ mean
and include the Secretary of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha and ‘dead body’ mean and conclude a dead body of a person.
15. Pradeshiya Sabha of Embilipitiya reserves the powers to amend from time to time any matter in this sub statute.
16. In case of any conflict pertaining to the meaning of Tamil and English copies of this sub statute, Sinhala copy shall prevail valid.
Schedule No. 01
* Insurance companies
* Concrete work places
* Auctioneers and Brokers
* Factories or Industries
* Foreign Employment Agencies
* Registered liquor shops
* Driving learning school
* Audit firms
* Gem businessmen
*  Independent contracting firms
* Garments
* Super markets
* Private transport services
* Private medical centers
* All financial institute where money are deposited and lent
* Hotel or guest houses which are registered or approved by Tourist Board of Sri Lanka
* Power houses approved by Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
* All other businesses which are registered under Business Registration Act.
Schedule No. 02
1. Name of the Proprietor :
2. Identity Card Number :
3. Address :
4. Annual valuation of the business venue :
(i) Assessment Number :
(ii) Details of Previous Annual Turnover/income :
5. Nature of Business/Industry/Profession:
6. Details of products or services provided by Business or industry :
7. Number of employees:
8. Details of registration of such Business/Industry/profession if registered in other Department or Institution:
9. Other :
I do certify that the all details furnished by me are true and accurate.
……………………
Signature.
(Business/Industry/Profession) Proprietor.
Date:………………………

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
736
1. Turnover mean all receipts of any Businessman/Industry.
2. Business mean,
* All businesses including business of any person who obtain any commission or fee for the services done for any industry or
manufacturer and also including businesses of independent contrators.
* All factories or firms
* Venues which act as boards and professionals
08-821
EMBILIPITIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By - laws
WE shall notify that the following by-laws are enacted by the Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the administrative authority
of the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council, under the power granted by article 122 and article 126 of Act No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya
Sabha Laws, and these by laws are approved by the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragamuwa Province under the Power granted
to him by article 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
MAHIEPALA HERA TH,
The Minister of Local Government.
Sabaragamuwa Province.
08th July, 2015.
SUB STA TUTE PERTAINING TO THE PROPER MAINTENANCE OF CREMATORIUM WHICH IS OPERA TED BY L.P. GAS -
EMBILIPITIYA PRADESHIY A SABHA
01. This is the Sub Statute for the proper maintenance of crematorium which is operated by L. P. gas belonged to Pradeshiya Sabha
of Embilipitiya.
02. The Sub Statute will take effect and be implemented form the date of publishing in the Gazette after being approved by the
Minister.
03. The crematorium is called as the ‘Crematorium of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha’ which is operated by L. P. Gas and maintained
by Pradeshiya Sabha of Embilipitiya.
04. No. dead body should be accepted for the cremation without a permit issued by the Chairman of Embilipitiya  Pradeshiya Sabha
or any other officer authorised by him.
05. Any person who is herein after referred as the Applicant should forward and application prepared as per the first schedule hereto
along with following documents to the Chairman for a permit mentioned in section four above.
(i) Certificate issued by Grama Niladhari of the division in which the deceased resided for proving the relationship between
the applicant and the deceased.
(ii) Certificate of permission for a cremation issued by the Inquirer into Deaths or Magistrate under Section 41(E) of Births
and Deaths Registration Act, if an inquiry was held into the death of the deceased under the provisions of Cirminal
Procedure Code.
(iii) In case of dead body, certificate issued under Section 43 (I) of Births and Deaths Registration Act.
06. Once the duly completed applications are received to the Chairman, they should be documented according to the order of receipt.
07. If the dead body is accepted for cremation, due fee must be charged and permission has to be given.  The time of handing over the
dead body to the custodian of the crematorium should also be mentioned in the permit.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
737
08. If the dead body cannot be accepted for the cremation, applicant should be informed the reasons for not accepted in writing.
09. No fee will be charged for the cremation of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Member of the Sabha, employee who employed or
currently employed or any other person proposed and decided by the Sabha.
10. Permission will be given for the cremation of any dead body after charging the due fee which is decided by the Sabha from time
to time.
11. Custodian, Assistant and a Watcher for the crematorium have to be appointed by Provincial Council of Sabaragamuwa after
obtaining the idia of the Chairman.
12. The Custodian of the crematorium must maintain the crematorium and its surroundings in an attractive and clean manner.
13. No dead body should be cremated without a certificate issued by Grama Niladhari of the division or a Certificate of Death issued
by a Registrar of Deaths under the provisions of Births and Deaths Registration Ordinance (amended) by Births and Deaths Registration Act
No. 41 of 1975.
14. At the time of reservation of the crematorium for a cremation of a dead body, a container on which the name and address of the
deceased is written has to be handed over to the Custodian of the crematorium by the closest relation of the deceased for the p urpose of
depositing ashes after the cremation.
15. It is the duty of the Custodian of the crematorium to put the ashes into the container and keep it with care in the place reserved for
that purpose as per the provisions of Section 13.
16.  In case that the said container with ashes is not brought by relations of the deceased within 14 days or not accepted according to
Section 13, it should be deposited by the Sabha in the place or ground reserved for that purpose.
17.  Ashes of the deceased should not be  handed over to any other person except the closest relation of the deceased.
18.  Accepting dead bodies for the cremation must be done within the period from 8.30 a.m.  to 6.00 p. m.
19.  Custodian of the crematorium is ecpected to act according to duty lists given by the Chairman or Secretary of the Sabha.
20.  If any person behave in the manner disturbing for peace and cremation, the Custodian of the crematorium possesses the powers
to remove or exclude such person from the premises of crematorium.
21. No person who attends to pay last respect for the deceased should behave causing any damage to any statue or tomb, buildings or
property of the crematorium or causing dishonour to the deceased.
22. Under provisions of Burial Gounds Ordinance actions have to be taken against any person who violate Section 21 above.
23. No person should enter the premises of the crematorium without a proper permission out of the time mentioned in Section 18
above. No person is allowed to behave or stay invain in the premises of the crematorium after the cremation.
24. It is an offence to damage the crematorium or any construction or installation of the premises of crematorium or distrub, threaten
or force the duty or services of the Custodian, Assistants or employees  the crematorium.
25. The person who makes the reservation of the crematorium should agree to pay any sum which is ordered by the Chairman if any
damage is occured to the crematorium or its buildings or equipments by the person who makes the reservation or his/her close ones.
26. Violation of Section 22, 23 and 24 of this sub statute and if somebody is found guilty by any court of law, he or she will be subject
to a fine imposed by Section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
27. In case of inability to cremate a dead body due to current failure or technical fault of machines before or during the cremation, the
right of decision to bury such dead bodies is reserved with the Chairman. In any issue of the implementation of these sub stautes, decision of
the Chairman will be final.
28. In these sub Statutes the ‘Sabha’ which term or expression as herein used shall where the context so requires or admits mean and
include the said Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha, The ‘Chairman’ mean and include  to the said Chairman of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha, the
‘Secretary’ mean and include the Secretary of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha and ‘dead body’ mean and conclude a dead body of a person.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
738
29. In case of any conflict pertaining to the meaning of Tamil and English copies of this sub statute, Sinhala copy shall prevail valid.
 First Schedule
Applicaiton form for the cremation of a dead body in the crematorium of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha
01. Full Name of the Applicant       :
Address :
National Idendity Card No. :
Grama Niladhari Division :
02. Name of the Deceased :
Address :
National Identity Card No. :
Grama Niladari Division :
03. Applicant’s relationship to the Deceased :
04. Number and Date of Certificate of Death :
05. Name and Address of Registrar of Death Registration :
06. Cause of Death :
07. Date and Time of the inquiry if held :
08. Conclusion of the inquirer :
09. Whether permission is given for the cremation of the dead body? :
10. Date and Time needed for the cremation :
I certify that all above details are accrurate and true. Relevant certificates are annexed.
……………………………
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :.……………………………
For office use only
01. Issue of the premit is approved/is rejected on following reasons :
………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………
……………………………
Signature of Chairman/Authorized Officer.
Date:……………………………
02. Noted in the document
Received Rs....................by receipt No. .............................. dated...........................
03. Permit is forwarded for the signature.
04. Letter with reasons for refusing the request is forwarded for the signature.
………………………,
Signature of Subject Clerk.
Date :………………
08-822

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
739
EMBILIPITIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By - laws
WE shall notify that the following by-laws are enacted by the Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the administrative authority of
the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council, under the power granted by article 122 and article 126 of Act No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya
Sabha Laws, and these by laws are approved by the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragamuwa Province under the Power granted
to him by article 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
MAHIEPALA HERA TH,
The Minister of Local Government.
Sabaragamuwa Province.
08th July, 2015.
Sub Statute pertaining to regularization and administration of Public Library of  Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
01. This sub Statute is imposed by Pradeshiya Sabha of Embilipitiya in order to regularize and administrate the service of public library
through the provision of various resources and services in order to improve educational development and interest of reading, discipline and
personality development of persons living in the area of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. This sub statute will take effect from the date of approving by the Minister and publishing in the Gazette.
03. Following Sections may include in the Public Library of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha according to the needs of the people living
in the area of that Sabha.
(i) Lending Section
(ii) Referring Section
(iii) Children Section
(iv) Periodicals and Newspapers Section
(v) Study Section
(vi) Book Conservation Section
(vii) Mobile & Branch libraries services
(viii) Other information services
04. A  Librarian should be appointed for Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha and he or she should be responsible for organizing and proper
maintenance of the public library.
05. Library Consultation Committee has to be appointed (herein after called and referred as Library Committee) for the supervision
and general administration.
(i) This Committee may be annually appointed by Pradeshiya Sabha and consisted of following persons.
* Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha
* No. of Sabha members not more than three who will be selected among members of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
* Member representing each religion for such people living in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha.
* No. of senior residents not more than three who will be elected within the area of Pradeshiya Sabha.
* Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha.
* Community Coordinating officer of Pradeshiya Sabha.
* Librarian of the main library of  Pradeshiya Sabha
* A Principal of a School in the Sabha area
* A representative of a Community Board in the area
(ii) Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha should be officially the President of the committee and he should take the chair at every
meeting of the committee. In the absence of the Chairman a person selected by committee members should take the chair
at the meeting.
(iii) Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha should be the convener of the committee.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
740
(iv) Librarian of the main library of Pradeshiya Sabha should be the Secretary of  the committee.
(v) Quorum should be one third of members of the committee.
(vi) The person who chairs at any meeting has one basic vote and one decisive vote in an event of similar number of votes for
and against.
06. Obtaining the membership
(i) Any person who expecs the services of the library is should apply for the membership through an applicaiton obtainable
from the librarian making a payment which is decided from time to time by the Sabha.
The application concerned should be attested by one of following persons.
* Grama Niladhari of the area
* Justice of the Peace
* Member of Pradeshiya Sabha
* Staff officer of Public Service or Provincial Public Service
* In case of a student, Class Teacher or Principal of the School
(ii) Following qualifications have to be fulfilled for the library membership.
* Should be a resident or property holder or permanently employed in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha for the ordinary
membership.
* For the school membership, should be more than 05 years of age and student of a school or Pirivena in the area.
(iii) Membership Fee.
* For an ordinary member, annual membership fee is Rs. 100. By making a payment of Rs. 30 it should be renewed
annually.
* Membership fee for school members is Rs. 50. By making a payment of Rs. 30 it should be renewed annually.
Nevertheless membership fee could be decided from time to time by the Sabha.
(iv) Guarantors
* Mother/Father/Custodian/Principal/ Class Teacher of the applicant or Chairman or member of Embilipitiya
Pradeshiya Sabha could be the gurantor for the School members.
* As the Guarantors for ordinary memberships, Chairman member of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha/permanent
public or provincial public servant/other member of hte family/ assessment payee should sign.
07. 02 books could be obtained in one occassion by a permit issued for a member of the Lending Section and the member should be
responsible for every boom lent.
08. Every book borrowed by the member has to be returned to the Librarian within 14 days.
09. In case of neglecting the return of any book to the Librarian with 14 days mentioned in statute 8 inthe Sub statute, surcharge of
Rs. 2.00 and Rs. 1.00 respectively from ordinary and school members or any other surcharge that may be decided from time to time by the
Sabha.
10. In case any member neglects the return of a book within 30 days after 14 days it is considered a lost book.
11. In such a loosing of a book, the member should pay the value of such book, departmental fee up to 25% of the value of that book
and surcharge as per the Para 9 of the sub statute. No book which is borrowed by a member should be damaged.
12. It is the duty of every member to inform Librarian damage of deformity if any of a book to be lent. If the member neglects to
inform the Librarian such damage or deformity of the book, it shall be considered that a book without any damage or deformity is issued to the
member.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
741
13. If the Librarian may think that any book returned by the any member is damaged and not in a good condition to be re issued, the
member is bound to bear the cost of that book. Then the damaged book has to be marked “Sold” and given to the member concerned.
14.  (i) No person is expected to alienate any book borrowed from the library.
(ii) Membership of any member who violates provisions in sub statute 14(i) above will be cancelled.
15. (i) No person should return any book which was used by any person who is suffering from any skin or communicable
disease.
(ii) In case any book is found to be used by any person who was suffering from any skin or communicable disease has to be
destroyed and the cost of that book should be paid to the Librarian by the member concerned.
16. In case of any dispute between two or more members regarding the lending of a book, it should be solved by the Librarian.
17. It is duty of the Librarian to issue any book of lending section when requested by a member. If the relevant book has been already
issued name or names of applicant/applicants have to be noted in a list so that the such book could be issued to them when returned.
18. Lending section is kept open on every day from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p. m. except Sundays, public holidays and any other day on stock
taking decided by the committee after a notice for members 07 days before at least. But days and times of opening the library can be changed
at the discretion of the Sabha.
19. Referring Section
(i) Books in the  referring  Section must be used after setting the signature in the register maintained by that Section upon the
permission of the Librarian.
(ii) No book, magazine or other reading material should be brought out of the referring Section. Nevertheless, when photocopy
service is available, photocopying of needy page or pages of any book or document can be allowed after making due
payments under the approval and custody of the Librarian.
20. Reading Hall
(i) Reading Hall of the library is kept open from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p. m. on every weekdays and any other days and times that
may be decided by the Sabha. Any person is allowed to use the reading hall after mentioning name, time and signature in
the register which is kept in the Reading hall.
(ii) Any newspaper, periodical, magazine, map or any other material belonged to the library should not be damaged or brought
out.
21. No person
(i)  Should behave indecently or in the manner of disturbing within or around library premises of Embilipitiya
(ii) Should damage or make dirty any building or part thereof of the library or Pradeshiya Sabha.
(iii) Should remain or stay in vain within the premises of the library.
(iv) Should drink liquor or smoke or spit within the premises of the library.
(v) Should play grambling using card packs or games within the premises of the library
(vi) Should disturb other users of the library by making voices, singing  or making other sounds within the premises of the
library.
(vii) Should bring any animal into the premises of the library.
(viii) Should sleep or have any food within the premises of the library.
(ix) Should enter the premises of the Public library in a dirty condition.
(x) Who had suffered or was suffering any skin or communicable disease or nursed such a patient should enter the library
premises until the period of spread is over.
(xi) Should distrub the Librarian or any other person who act under the authority of the Librarian to legally carry out his or her
powers.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –28.08.2015
742
22. Certain fee decided by the Sabha could be charged from non members for useing referring Section and other Sections except
lending Section.
23. It is the duty of the Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha to hold an annual stock survey in every year for the library. Annual Survey
reports have to be submitted to the Sabha. Recommendations passed by the Sabha must be implemented within three months from the date of
passing by the Sabha.
24. Violation of this Sub statute and if somebody is found guilty by any court of law, he or she will be subject to a fine imposed by
Section 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987. If such violation is continued an additional fine would be imposed by Section 122(2) of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 after written notice made by the Chairman or any other authorized officer.
25. Definition
(i) In these Sub Statutes the ‘Sabha’ which term or expression as herein used shall where the context so requires or admits
mean and include the said Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha, the ‘Chairman’ mean and include to the said Chairman or
Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha, the ‘Secretary’ mean and include the Secretary of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) The term Librarian means a person who appointed by Pradeshiya Sabha to be the incharge of the library his or her
assistants.
(iii) The Community Coordinating Officer means the officer who was appointed by the Commissioner of Local Government
for the community coordination of Pradeshiya Sabha.
(iv) The Committee means Library Consultation Committee.
(v) Senior persons mean those who are intellegent and residing in the area of Embilipitiya Pradeshiya Sabha and have done a
greater service to the Society.
(vi) The Minister means Minister of Local Government of the Provincial Council of Sabaragamuwa
26. In case of any conflict pertaining to the meaning of Tamil and English copies of this Sub statute, Sinhala copy shall prevail valid.
08-823
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.