

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2027$2 - 2017 cQ,s ui 10 jeks i`ÿod - 2017'07'10
No. 2027/2 - MONDAY,  JULY  10, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A  G  25877— 57 (07/2017)
INLAND   REVENUE  ACT,  No. 10  OF  2006
Notice
IT is hereby notified under Section 97(1)(b) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, that the bilateral Agreement for
affording relief from double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion, entered into on 06.10.2015 between the Government
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Poland is set out in the Schedule
hereto, has been approved by Parliament by a resolution passed on 27.01.2016.
Dr. R. H. S. S
AMARATHUNGA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Mass Media.
Ministry of Finance and Mass Media,
Colombo 01,
07th July, 2017.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
FOR THE A VOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION
AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EV ASION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME
The Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of  the Republic of Poland
desiring to conclude an Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect
to taxes on income,
have agreed as follows:

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
2A
ARTICLE  1
PERSONS COVERED
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
ARTICLE  2
TAXES  COVERED
1. This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdi-
visions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income or on elements of income, including
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, as well as taxes on capital appreciation.
3. The existing taxes to which this Agreement shall apply are in particular:
a) in the case of Poland:
(i) the personal income tax, and
(ii) the corporate income tax,
(hereinafter referred to as “Polish taxes”);
b) in  the case of Sri Lanka:
the income tax, including the income tax based on the turnover of enterprises entered into agreements with
the Board of Investment;
(hereinafter referred to as “Sri Lanka tax”).
4. This Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes on income, which are imposed after
the date of signature of this Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities
of the Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes that have been made in their taxation
laws.
A
RTICLE  3
GENERAL  DEFINITIONS
1. For the purposes of this agreemen t, unless th e context otherwise requires:
a) the term "Poland" means the Republic of Poland an d, when used in a geographical sense, means the territory 
of the Republic of Poland, and any area adjacent to the territorial waters of the Republic of Poland within 
which, under the laws of Poland and in accordance with international law, the right of Poland with respect to 
the exploratio n and exploitation of the natural resources of the seabed and its sub-soil may be exercised;
b) the term “Sri Lanka” means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as defined in th e 
Constitution, including its land territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them as well as  
the exclusiv e economic zone and continental shelf where the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  
exercises or may hereafter exercise sover eign rights an d jurisdiction in conformity with international law  
and its national legislation; 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
3A
c) the terms “a Contracting State” and “the other Contracting State” mean Poland and  Sri Lanka as the context
requires;
d) the term “person” includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons;
e) the term “company” means any body corporate or any entity which is treated as a body corporate for tax
purposes;
f) the terms “enterprise of a Contracting State” and “enterprise of the other Contracting State” mean respec-
tively an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident
of the other Contracting State;
g) the term “national” means:
(i) any individual possessing the citizenship of that Contracting State;
(ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in that
Contracting State;
h) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Con-
tracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting
State;
i) the term “competent authority” means:
(i) in the case of Poland, the Minister of Finance, or his authorised representative,
(ii) in the case of Sri Lanka, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue; or an authorised representative
of the Commissioner General;
2. As regards the application of this Agreement at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall,
unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the laws of that State for the
purposes of the taxes to which this Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State
prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
A
RTICLE  4
RESIDENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “resident of a Contracting State” means any person who, under the
laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management, place of
incorporation or registration or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State and any politi-
cal subdivision or local authority thereof. This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in
that State in respect only of income from sources in that State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he
has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State
with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
4A
b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent
home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an
habitual abode;
c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the
State of which he is a national;
d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States
shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contract-
ing States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is
situated. If the State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the compe-
tent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to settle the question by mutual agreement.
A
RTICLE  5
PERMANENT  ESTABLISHMENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “permanent establishment” means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term “permanent establishment” includes especially:
a) a place of management;
b) a branch;
c) an office;
d) a factory;
e) a workshop;
f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.
3. The term “permanent establishment” likewise encompasses:
a) a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project, a drilling rig or ship used for the exploration
or development of natural resources, including supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only where
such site, project or activities continue for a period of more than 6 months;
b) the furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise through employees or other
personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only where activities of that nature continue (for
the same or a connected project) within a Contracting State for a period or periods aggregating more than
183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term “permanent establishment” shall be deemed not
to include:
a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
5A
b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
storage or display;
c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
processing by another enterprise;
d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise, or
of collecting information, for the enterprise;
e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any
other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character;
f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-
paragraphs a) to e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this com-
bination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status
to whom paragraph 7 applies  is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in respect
of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person:
a) has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise,
unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through
a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the
provisions of that paragraph, or
b) has no such authority, but  habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise
from which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise.
6. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall,
except in regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it
collects premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than
an agent of an independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting
State merely because it carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commission agent or any
other agent of an independent status, where such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.
However, when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, and
conditions are made or imposed between that enterprise and the agent in their commercial and financial relations
which differ from those which would have been made between independent enterprises he will not be considered
an agent of an independent enterprise status within the meaning of this paragraph.
8. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is
a resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a
permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of
the other.
A
RTICLE  6
INCOME   FROM   IMMOV ABLE   PROPERTY
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture
or forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
6A
2. The term “immovable property” shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting
landed property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration
for the working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats and
aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form
of immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and
to income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
A
RTICLE  7
BUSINESS  PROFITS
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries
on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise
carries on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of
them as is attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing
wholly independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative ex-
penses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere.
4. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in
paragraph 2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportion-
ment as may be customary. The method of  a apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be
in accordance with the principles contained in this Article.
5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then
the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
7A
ARTICLE  8
SHIPPING AND AIR TRANSPORT
1. Profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in the Contracting State
in which the enterprise is resident.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, profits derived in a Contracting State by an enterprise of the other
Contracting State from the operation of ships  in international traffic may be taxed in the first-mentioned State, but
the tax so charged shall be reduced by an amount equal to 50 per cent thereof.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or
an international operating agency, but only to so much of the profits so derived as is attributable to the participant
in proportion to its share in the joint operation.
A
RTICLE  9
ASSOCIATED  ENTERPRISES
1. Where:
a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital
of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of
a Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or
financial relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any
profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those
conditions, have not so accrued, may be included by a Contracting State in the profits of that enterprise and
taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State, and taxes accordingly, profits on
which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State, and the profits so
included are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions
made between the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises,
then that other State shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those
profits. In determining such adjustment due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement and the
competent authorities of the Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply where judicial, administrative or other legal proceedings have re-
sulted in a final ruling that by actions giving rise to an adjustment of profits under paragraph 1, one of the enter-
prises concerned is liable to penalty with respect to fraud, gross negligence or wilful default.
A
RTICLE  10
DIVIDENDS
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
8A
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is
a resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the
other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are
paid.
3. The term “dividends” as used in this Article means income from shares, or other rights, not being debt-claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation
treatment as income from shares by the laws of the Contracting State of which the company making the distribu-
tion is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is
a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent per-
sonal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is
effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed based. In such case the provisions of Article 7
or Article14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such divi-
dends are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid
is effectively connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the
company's undistributed profits to a tax on the company’s undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the
undistributed profits consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in that other State.
A
RTICLE  11
INTEREST
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of
that State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged
shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State and derived by the Govern-
ment of the other Contracting State, including a local authority thereof, the Central Bank or any financial institu-
tion controlled by that Government, shall be exempt from tax in the first-mentioned State.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3, the term “the Central Bank or any financial institution controlled by that Govern-
ment” means:
a) In the case of Poland:
(i) the National Bank of Poland;
(ii) any other financial institution, the capital of which is wholly owned by the Government of Poland;
b) In the case of Sri Lanka:
(i) the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
(ii) any other financial institution, the capital of which is wholly owned by the Government of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
9A
5. The term “interest” as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
this Article.
6. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base
situated therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such
permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall
apply.
7. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however, the
person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was
incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment, or a fixed base then such interest shall be
deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or a fixed base is situated.
8. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE  12
ROYALTIES   AND FEES FOR  TECHNICAL  SERVICES
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise
and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical services is a
resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the
royalties or fees for technical services.
3. a) The term “royalties” as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use
of, or the right to use, any copyright, patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for
the use of, or the right to use any industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment or for information  concerning
industrial, commercial or scientific experience (know-how).
b) The term "fees for technical services" as used in this Article means payments of any kind, other than those
mentioned in Article 15 of this Agreement as consideration for managerial or technical or consultancy ser-
vices, including the provision of services of technical or other personnel.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the
royalties or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
10A
other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of
which the royalties or fees for technical services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment
or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties and fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a
resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties or fees for technical services, whether he is
a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or fixed base in
connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical services was incurred, and such
royalties or fees for technical services are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royal-
ties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent estab-
lishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use, right or
information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the
beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-
mentioned amount.  In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of
each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.
A
RTICLE  13
CAPITAL   GAINS
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation from immovable property referred to in
Article 6 and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to
a fixed base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of perform-
ing independent personal services including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment
(alone or with the whole enterprise) or of such a fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international
traffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State.
4. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of shares deriving more than 50 per cent of
their value directly or indirectly of immovable property situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
5. Gains, other that those to which paragraph 4 applies, derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alien-
ation of shares of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State, may by taxed in that other State if
the alienator, at any time during the  twelve month period preceding such alienation, held directly or indirectly al
least  50 per cent  of the capital of that company.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1,2,3,4 and 5 shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
11A
ARTICLE  14
INDEPENDENT   PERSONAL   SERVICES
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of professional
services or other activities of an independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following
circumstances when such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State:
a) If he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
his activities; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that
other Contracting State; or
b) If his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or  exceeding in the aggre-
gate 183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the taxable year concerned; in that case,
only so much of the income as is derived from his activities performed in that other State may be taxed in
that other State.
2. The term “professional services” includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accoun-
tants.
A
RTICLE  15
DEPENDENT   PERSONAL   SERVICES
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employ-
ment is exercised in the other Contracting State.  If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is
derived therefrom may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in re-
spect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State
if:
a) the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in
any twelve month period commencing or ending in the taxable year concerned; and
b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other Contracting State;
and
c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or fixed base which the employer has in the
other Contracting State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exer-
cised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State may be taxed
in that State.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
12A
ARTICLE  16
DIRECTORS' FEES
Fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the
board of directors, the management board, the supervisory board or any other similar organ of a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
A
RTICLE  17
ARTISTES   AND   SPORTSPERSONS
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from
his personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as
such accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstand-
ing the provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the enter-
tainer or sportsperson are exercised.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, income derived from activities referred to in paragraph 1
performed under a cultural agreement or arrangement between the Contracting States shall be exempt from tax in
the Contracting State in which the activities are exercised if the visit to that State is wholly or substantially sup-
ported by funds of either Contracting State, a local authority or public institution thereof. For the purposes of this
paragraph, the term “substantially” means more than 50 per cent.
A
RTICLE  18
PENSIONS   AND   ANNUITIES
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration arising in a Con-
tracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State in consideration of past employment or services
in that first-mentioned State may be taxed in the State in which they arise.
2. Annuities arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in the
State in which they arise.
3. The term “annuity” means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consider-
ation in money or money’s worth.
A
RTICLE  19
GOVERNMENT   SERVICE
1. a) Salaries, wages and other similar remunerations other than a pension, paid by the Contracting State or a
political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State
or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
13A
b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remunerations shall be taxable only in the other Contracting
State if the services are rendered in that other State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i) is a national of that State; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, any pensions and other similar remunerations paid by, or out
of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual
in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
b) However, such pensions and other similar remunerations shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State
if the individual is a resident of, and a national of that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 14, 15, 16 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages, pensions, and other similar
remunerations in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting
State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof.
A
RTICLE  20
TEACHERS   AND   RESEARCHERS
1. A professor, teacher or researcher who is or was a resident of the Contracting State immediately before visiting
the other Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college or
other similar approved institution in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other State on any
remuneration for such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his/her arrival in
that other State.
2. This Article shall not apply to remuneration which a professor or teacher receives for conducting research if the
research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of a specific person or persons.
A
RTICLE  21
STUDENTS   AND   TRAINEES
Payments which a student, pupil or apprentice or business trainee who is or was immediately before visiting a
Contracting State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the
purpose of his education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education, or training shall not be taxed
in that State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.
A
RTICLE  22
OTHER  INCOME
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles
shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on busi-
ness in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other
State independent personal services from a fixed based situated therein, and the right or property in respect of

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
14A
which the income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case
the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not
dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed
in that other State.
A
RTICLE  23
ELIMINATION   OF   DOUBLE   TAXATION
1. Where a resident of a Contracting State derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agree-
ment may be taxed in the other Contracting State, the first-mentioned  Contracting State shall allow as a deduction
from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax paid in that other State. Such
deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the income tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which
is attributable to the income which may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where, in accordance with any provision of this Agreement, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State is
exempt from tax in that State, such State may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining
income of such resident, take into account the exempted income.
3. For the purpose of this Article, the term "tax" means Sri Lankan tax or Polish tax, as the context requires, but shall
not include any amount which is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this
Agreement applies or which represents a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes.
A
RTICLE  24
NON-DISCRIMINA TION
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any re-
quirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements
to which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may
be subjected.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to
residents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, relief and reductions for taxation purposes on
account of civil status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 8 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12
apply, interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the
other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible
under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indi-
rectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State
to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and
connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
15A
ARTICLE  25
MUTUAL   AGREEMENT   PROCEDURE
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by
the domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he
is a resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a
national.  The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to
arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other
Contracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with this Agreement. Any
agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting
States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficul-
ties or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of this Agreement. They may also consult together for
the elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in this Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. The competent authorities, through consultations,
may develop appropriate bilateral procedures, conditions, methods and techniques for the implementation of the
mutual agreement procedure provided for in this Article.
A
RTICLE  26
EXCHANGE   OF   INFORMATION
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant for
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws con-
cerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States or of their political
subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to this Agreement. The ex-
change of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as
information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities
(including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or
prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the
oversight of the above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may
disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation:
a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the
other Contracting State;
b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of
that or of the other Contracting  State;

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
16A
c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional
secret or trade process, or information the  disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (order
public).
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall
use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not
need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to
the limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to
decline to supply information solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply
information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting
in an agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
A
RTICLE  27
LIMITA TION   OF   BENEFITS
Benefits provided for by this Agreement shall not be available where it might be considered that the main purpose or one
of the main purposes for entering into arrangements has been to obtain any benefits that would not be otherwise available.
ARTICLE  28
MEMBERS   OF   DIPLOMATIC   MISSIONS   AND   CONSULAR   POSTS
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under
the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
ARTICLE  29
ENTRY   INTO  FORCE
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, that the procedures re-
quired by its law for the entry into force of this Agreement have been satisfied.
2. This Agreement shall enter into force after a period of three months following the date of the later of these
notifications and shall thereupon have effect:
a) in respect of taxes withheld at source, on income derived on or after  1 January in the calendar year next
following the year in which the Agreement enters into force, and
b) in respect of other taxes, on income derived in any tax year beginning on or after  1 January in the calendar
year next following the year in which the Agreement enters into force;
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, the provisions of Articles 25 and 26 (Mutual agreement proce-
dure and Exchange of information) shall have effect from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, without
regard to the taxable period to which the matter relates.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 10.07.2017
17A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
4. The Convention between the Government of the Polish Peoples’ Republic and the Government of the Demo-
cratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income and capital signed at Colombo on 25th of April 1980 shall terminate and cease to be
effective from the date upon which this Agreement has effect in respect of the taxes to which this Agreement
applies in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1,2 and 3 of this Article.
A
RTICLE  30
TERMINATION
1. This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may, termi-
nate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving written notice of termination at least six months
before the end of any calendar year following after the period of five years from the date  of which the Agreement
enters into force.
2.  The Agreement shall cease to have effect:
a) in respect of taxes withheld at source, on  amounts paid or credited on or after 1 January of the calendar year
next following that in which the notice is given;
b) in respect of  taxes on income, for any taxable year beginning on or after 1 January of the calendar year next
following that in which the notice is given.
In witness whereof the undersigned, duly authorised thereto, have signed this Agreement.
Done in duplicate at Colombo, on this day of 6th October 2015 in Sinhala, Polish and English languages, all texts being
equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
Hon. Harsha de Silva, Hon. Leszek Soczewic,
Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs
  For the Government of the  Democratic For the Government of the
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Republic of Poland.
07 - 798