

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2084
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … - 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"404 – 2024 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'09'27
No. 2,404 –  FRiday, sEPtEmbER 27, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th october, 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th october, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2081 - b 082613 - 5,403 (09/2024)
N. B.–  Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2403 of 20.09.2024 was not published.
 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2082
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a sri 
Lankan. a ,sri Lankan, is a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a sinhalese educated in sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public service in a medium other than sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public service. such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  service and Public 
service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public service, Provincial Public 
service, Public corporate sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2083
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. should the supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2084
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 
mINISTR y Of PubLIC  ADmINISTRATION , hOmE  Aff AIRS , PROvINCIAL   COuNCILS  
AND LOCAL  GOvERNmENT
Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 1, Grade II of Class 1 and Grade I of Class 1 of  
Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service – 2019(I)2024
1.0 it  is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers in Grade III of Class 1, Grade II of Class 1 and 
Grade i of class 1 of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service – 2019(i)2024 will be held 
in colombo on 19th of October 2024 and 20th of October 2024, by the director General of sri Lanka institute 
of Development Administration, under the supervision of the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial councils and Local Government. 
2.0  these examinations shall be held as per the provisions of the minute of sri Lanka information and communication 
t echnology service published in the Gazette extra Ordinary No. 1894/26 dated 26.12.2014.
3.0 Efficiency Bar Examinations which are due to be held in respect of the above services will be as follows:
Serial No. Name of  the examination       Code
1. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of Class 1 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication t echnology service     sLict  1(iii)
2. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 1 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication t echnology service     sLict1(ii)
3. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 1 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication t echnology service     sLict  1(i)
4.0 the candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the director General of sri Lanka institute 
of Development Administration with regard to this examination. Candidates will be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by disciplinary authority for violation of these rules.
5.0 applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk,  the official web site of the 
sri Lanka institute of development administration. a  User account should be created through "Examination 
applications" on the home page of the website or by logging in directly to http://examinationportal.slida.lk/
application  and then the application can be filled out. The online applications should be filled out only in English.
             Filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m on 27.09.2024  up to 12.00 midnight on 
11.10.2024.
6.0 examination Fees - The officers appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees. 
However, for subsequent sittings officers shall pay Rs. 500/- if they sit for more than 1 subject and they are required 
to pay Rs. 300/- if they sit for only for one subject. Examination fee shall be paid by any post office all over the 
island (except sub post offices) to be credited to ‘SLIDA’ account and the number of the receipt issued and  a photo 
of the receipt shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. When the payment is made to ‘sLida ’ 
account at the post office, the code names of inland telegraphic money order should be as mentioned in para 03 
(When filling the application for inland telegraphic money order (format 85), “SLIDA” should be mentioned as 
the recipient and the code name of the examination, for which you apply, should be indicated at the space made for 
the address of the recipient). Further, when crediting money to the account, the application shall be filled including 
the name of the applicant as the remitter and the N.i.c. number of the applicant at the space for the address of the 
remitter. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2085
7.0 When filling out the application online, it is compulsory for the applicant to have an active email address and 
mobile number. once the application is submitted online, a message acknowledging receipt of the same will be sent 
to that email address and mobile number. 
 once the applications are examined, you can download the admission card by logging into the User account 
created by you. y ou will be informed the same via sms.
8.0 the contact Number 011-5980264 of the sri Lanka institute of development administration is available for any 
clarification regarding the process for submitting applications from 8.30 a.m. up to 4.30 p.m. during working days 
of the week from 27.09.2024 up to 11.10.2024. 
9.0 Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit for 
the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the telephone number  
011- 5980264. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.  
10.0 identity of candidates - candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject they offer.  For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted 
to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the department for Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a  valid Passport
 the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of sri Lanka institute of development administration.
11.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. The officers shall sit for this examination 
in the language medium in which they have sat for the examination for entering into the relevant service or in an 
official language. The officers who have joined the service without a competitive examination shall sit for this 
examination in the language medium of education or an official language. Candidates shall not be allowed change 
language medium applied initially. 
12.0 The officers may, on their discretion can appear for each subject of the examination at different sittings.  
13.0 the results of the examination shall be published in the web site of the ministry of Public administration, Home 
Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government once the results are issued by the Director General of Sri 
Lanka institute of development administration to the secretary. the relevant Heads of departments shall make 
recommendations for confirmation of service and promotions of the officers according to the results.
      
14.0 Scheme of Examination: Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers are as 
follows. 
 14.1  Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology Service (Schedule 13 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade 
iii of class 1 of sri Lanka information and communication technology service, which belongs to Public 
service, to sit for this examination.  
                            Subject Subject 
No.
Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
Prescribed for a pass
Establishments code  and administration 01 100 03 hours 40
Financial Regulations and Public sector 
Financial management 02 100 03 hours 40
management and organization 03 100 03 hours 40

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2086
 14.1.1 Establishments Code and administration (Subject No. - 01)
  a  question paper based on the following.
 (i)  Organizing office and field activities and methods of organization. 
  
 (ii) the following chapters of the Establishments code
  i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, 
XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii
 (iii) Procedural Rules of Public service commission.
  this question  paper consists of essay type questions.
 14.1.2 Financial Regulations and Public Sector Financial Management (Subject No. - 02)
  one question paper based on the following.
 (a) Fiscal Governance in sri Lanka, constitutional Provisions Relating to Public Financial 
management, Parliamentary  control over Public Finance, meaning of Fund, consolidated 
Fund and its operation, meaning and methods of appropriation, contingencies Fund, other 
Funds and their operation, Government Revenue, Powers and Functions of the minister 
of Finance, Warrants and impress authority, auditor General, his Powers and Functions, 
committee on Public Expenditure, committee on Public Enterprises. 
 (b) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting 
Officers and their powers and functions. 
 (c) internal audit.
 (d) Public Expenditure Planning and Management, Identification of Organizational Objectives 
and Functions, Identification of Government Policies, Goals, Targets and the Programmes, 
Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and Prioritization of 
them, Formulation and Finalization of annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure. 
 (e) Variations of approval Estimates of Expenditure, application of Virement Procedure, 
management of Public sector cadres and salaries, total cost Estimates and Revisions, 
supplementary Estimates. 
 (f) Losses and Waivers of Government Properties. 
 (g) miscellaneous accounting matters.   
 (h) delegation of Functions for Financial control.
 (i) custody of Public money and bank accounts Procedure. 
 (j) Government procurement Procedure, procurement of Goods, Services and Works; 
composition, appointment, Powers and Functions of Procurement boards and technical 
Evaluation committees, Procurement Evaluation Procedure, management of donor Funded 
Projects. This question paper shall consist of essay type questions. 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2087
 14.1.3  Management and organization (Subject No. 03)
  one question paper based on following 
 (a)  the principles of management and organization. 
 (b)  the application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector. 
 (c)  the modern tools and techniques of management. 
  this question paper shall consist of essay type questions.  
14.2 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade II of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 14 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade II of Class 1 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology service, which belongs to Public service, to sit for this examination.
 
Subject Subject No. marks duration
Cut - off 
marks 
Prescribed for  
a pass
Office management 04 100 01 hour 40
E- government concept 
and information 
technology 
management 
Question paper i- multiple 
choice Questions 05 - i 40 01 hour 16
Question paper ii – Essay type 05 - ii 60 01 hour 24
                              
 14.2.1   Office Management (Subject No. 04)
  Providing answers based on a given case in relation to management of human and physical resources of 
an office in public sector.
 14.2.2    E- government concept and Information Technology Management (Subject No. 05)
  this question paper shall consist of 02 parts.  
 (a)  Question paper I- Multiple Choice Questions (Subject No. 05-I)
  e-government concepts will consist of evolution of the e-Government system, its’ stages, basic 
elements of e-Government, e-Services and e-Government projects, state Information and 
communication technology infrastructure, critical success factors of e-Government, e-Government 
management interoperability and service oriented architecture.
  
 (b)  Question paper II – Essay type (Subject No. 05-II)
  Information Technology Management will consist of life cycle of Information Technology Projects, 
Importance of each stage and requirement of specific resources, Basic principles of Information 
technology management, information technology Resources management, Risks of information 
Technology projects and minimizing them. 
14.3     Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 15 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class 1 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology service, which belongs to Public service, to sit for this examination.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2088
Subject Subject 
No.
marks duration` cut-of marks 
Prescribed for a pass
information and 
communication 
Technology Project
Project Report 06-i 60 - 30
Presentation of the 
Project Report  06-ii 40
30 minutes for the 
Presentation including 
Questions and answers 
session. 
20
                                   
 14.3.1 Project Report (Subject No. 06 - I)
  Preparation of a project report of not less than Fifteen thousand (15, 000) words related to the subject 
filed of information and Communication Technology, which can be practically applied to enhance the 
productivity of offices of public sector in Sri Lanka.
 14.3.2 Presentation of Project Report (Subject No. 06 - II) 
   Presentation to the panel of examiners and answering the questions raised by the panel of examiners. 
                                                                            
The time table for each subject of each examination is as follows;
serial 
No. Name of the examination Subject Subject  
No. date time
01
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade 
iii of class 1 of sri 
Lanka information and 
communication technology 
service
Establishments code and 
administration 01 19.10.2024 9.00 a.m. -12.00 noon
Financial Regulations and 
financial management in public 
sector
02 19.10.2024 12.30 p.m. - 3.30 p.m.
management and organization 03 20.10.2024 12.30 p.m. - 3.30 p.m.
02
Efficiency Bar 
Examinations for Officers 
in Grade ii of class 1 of 
sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
service
Office Management 04 20.10.2024 12.00 noon - 1.00 p.m.
e- government 
concept and 
information 
technology 
management 
Question 
paper i - mcQ
05-i
20.10.2024 1.30 p.m. - 3.30 p.m.
Question 
paper ii – 
Essay type
05-ii
03
Efficiency Bar 
Examinations for Officers 
in Grade i of class 1 of 
sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
service
information and 
communication               
technology 
Project
Project Report 06-i candidates will be informed the time 
schedule for the submission of the 
project report and the presentation 
of the project report after the closing 
date of application by the director 
General of sri Lanka institute of 
development administration. 
Presentation 
of the Project 
Report
06-ii
15.0    Any matter not provided for in this examination notification, the decision of the  Secretary to the Ministry of Public 
Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government shall be the final.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2089
16.0     In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
    Pradeep Yasarathne,
   secretary,
   ministry of Public administration,  
   Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government.
13th of september 2024,
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial councils and Local Government
independence square,
colombo 07.
09 - 200
mINISTR y Of PubLIC  ADmINISTRATION , hOmE  Aff AIRS , PROvINCIAL   COuNCILS  
AND  LOCAL   GOvERNmENT
Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 3, Grade II of Class 3, Grade I of Class 3, Grade II of 
Class 2 and Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service – 2019(I)2024
1.0 It is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers in Grade III of Class 3, Grade II of Class 3, 
Grade i of class 3, Grade ii of class 2 and Grade i of class 2 of the sri Lanka information and communication 
technology service - 2019(i)2024 will be held in colombo on the 29
th ,20th  and 27 th  of October 2024, by the 
director General of the sri Lanka institute of development administration, under the supervision of the ministry 
of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government. 
2.0  (a) these examinations shall be held as per the provisions of the minute of sri Lanka information and communication 
technology service published in the Gazette extra Ordinary No. 1894/26 dated 26.12.2014.
 (b) If there are officers who have not passed the Efficiency Bar examination, because no prescription has been 
made either in the procedure of recruitment of the previous post or in the letter of appointment in respect of the 
Efficiency Bar, they shall pass the Efficiency Bar examination prescribed for the Grade of the relevant Class within 
a concessionary period of three years from the date on which above service minute has been published in the 
Gazette Notification.
3.0 Efficiency Bar Examinations which are due to be held in respect of the above services will be as follows:
Serial 
No: Name of  the examination Code
1 Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology service sLict 3(iii)
2 Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology service sLict 3(ii)
3 Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology service sLict 3(i)

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2090
Serial 
No: Name of  the examination Code
4 Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication t echnology service sLict  2(ii)
5 Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication t echnology service sLict  2(i)
4.0 the candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the director General of sri Lanka institute 
of Development Administration with regard to this examination. Candidates will be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by disciplinary authority for violation of these rules.
5.0 applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk , the official web site of the 
Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. A User Account should be created through “Examination 
Applications” on the home page of the website or by logging in directly to https://examinationportal.slida.lk/
application  and then the application can be filled out. The online applications should be filled out only in English.  
             Filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m on 27.09.2024  up to 12.00 midnight on 
11.10.2024.
6.0 Examination fees - The officers appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees. 
However, for subsequent sittings officers shall pay Rs. 500/- if they sit for more than 1 subject and they are required 
to pay Rs. 300/- if they sit for only for one subject. Examination fee shall be paid by any post office all over the 
island (except sub post offices) to be credited to ‘SLIDA’ account and the number of the receipt issued and  a photo 
of the receipt shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. When the payment is made to ‘sLida ’ 
account at the post office, the code names of inland telegraphic money order should be as mentioned in para 03 
(When filling the application for inland telegraphic money order (format 85), “SLIDA” should be mentioned as 
the recipient and the code name of the examination, for which you apply, should be indicated at the space made for 
the address of the recipient). Further, when crediting money to the account, the application shall be filled including 
the name of the applicant as the remitter and the N.i.c. number of the applicant at the space for the address of the 
remitter.
7.0 When filling out the application online, it is compulsory for the applicant to have an active email address and 
mobile number. once the application is submitted online, a message acknowledging receipt of the same will be sent 
to that email address and mobile number. 
once the applications are examined, you can download the admission card by logging into the User account 
created by you. you will be informed the same via sms.
8.0 Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the telephone number 
011 - 5980264 of sri Lanka institute of development administration. communication can be made through this 
line from 8.30 a.m up to 4.30 p.m during working days of the week from 27.09.2024 up to 11.10.2024.
9.0 Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit for 
the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the telephone number  
011- 5980264. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.  
10.0 identity of candidates - candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject they offer.  For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted 
to the supervisor.
 (i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons;
 (ii) a  valid Passport.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2091
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of sri Lanka institute of development administration.
11.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. The officers shall sit for this examination 
in the language medium in which they have sat for the examination for entering into the relevant service or in an 
official language. The officers who have joined the service without a competitive examination shall sit for this 
examination in the language medium of education or an official language. Candidates shall not be allowed change 
language medium applied initially.
12.0 The officers may, on their discretion can appear for each subject of the examination at different sittings.  
13.0 the results of the examination shall be published in the web site of the ministry of Public administration, Home 
Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government by the Director General of Combined Services once the results 
are issued by the director General of sri Lanka institute of development administration. the relevant Heads of 
Departments shall make recommendations for confirmation of service and promotions of the officers according to 
the results.
14.0 Scheme of examination : Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers are as 
follows: 
 14.1 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 8 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology service, which belongs to combined service, to sit for 
this examination. 
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
prescribed for a pass  
Establishments code 01 100 01 hour 40
Financial Regulation 02 100 01 hour 40
14.1.1 Establishments Code (Subject No. - 01)
It is expected to measure the basic knowledge of the public officer on the Establishments Code and 
Procedural Rules of Public service commission. the question paper consists of questions for short 
answers and structured questions. all the questions shall be answered. 
14.1.2 Financial Regulations (Subject No. - 02)
It is expected to measure the basic knowledge of the officer on Financial Regulations and Store 
management and the understanding on the activities related to cash control registers. the question 
paper consists of questions for short answers and structured questions. all the questions shall be 
answered. 
 14.2 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 9 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology service, which belongs to combined service, to sit for 
this examination.
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration
Cut - off marks 
Prescribed for a 
pass
Office systems and procedure 03 100 02 hours 40
information and communication  technology 04 100 03 hours 40

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2092
14.2.1 Office systems and procedure (Subject No. - 03)
 It is expected to measure the knowledge of the candidates on the office systems applied in public 
offices and ability to apply them. The question paper consists of structured questions. All the 
questions shall be answered. 
 14.2.2 Information and Communication Technology (Subject No. - 04)
  it is expected to test the knowledge of the candidates on the wider application of ict  and the common 
concepts ICT in public offices. (The method of application of  ICT  in  government  organizations. The 
papers will be consisted following ict  areas such as adequate knowledge on computer Networks and 
Data Communication, knowledge on General Purpose Software and Specific Application Software, 
Knowledge on data security and backing up sW, basic measure to enhance availability of computer 
systems and data security) 
this paper consist of two parts.
Part i – a multiple choice question paper. duration is 01 hour. (40 marks)
Part ii  – Essay type question paper. duration 02 hours. (60 marks)
14.3 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 10 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology service, which belongs to combined service, to sit 
for this examination. 
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration
Cut-off marks 
prescribed for a 
pass
information and communication
technology (Written test) 05 50 01 hour 20
information and communication
technology (Practical test) 06 50 01 hour 20
             
 14.3.1 Information and Communication Technology – Written Test (Subject No. 05)
 I. Application of software for office activities and knowledge in this regard
 ii. Knowledge in computer networking
 III. Knowledge in identification and rectification of errors in computer Software/ Hardware
this question paper consists of questions for short answers and essay type questions. all the questions 
shall be answered.    
14.3.2 Information and Communication Technology – Practical Test (Subject No. 06)
 I.  Practical knowledge in using software for office activities
 ii. Practical Knowledge in computer networking 
 III. Practical knowledge in identification and rectification of errors in computer  
software/ Hardware 
 
 14.4  Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 11 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication technology service, which belongs to combined service, to sit 
for this examination. 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2093
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration Cut – off marks 
prescribed for a pass
Establishments code 07 100 02 hours 40
Financial Regulations 08 100 02 hours 40
 14.4.1 Establishments Code (Subject No. 07)
It is expected to test the general knowledge of the officer on provisions in Establishments Code/ 
Procedural rules of the Public service commission and his/her ability to apply his/ her knowledge 
practically. this paper shall be prepared based on chapters of V olume i and V olume ii of the 
Establishments code and Procedural rules of the Public service commission. this question paper 
consists of questions for short answers and structured type questions. all the questions shall be 
answered. 
 14.4.2 Financial Regulations (Subject No. 08)
it is expected to test basic knowledge and understanding of the candidate on Government Financial 
Regulations and the purposes of various registers and log books maintained in public office and 
basis knowledge of store keeping. this question paper consists of questions for short answers and 
structured type questions. all the questions shall be answered.   
14.5 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 12 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri 
Lanka information and communication t echnology service, which belongs to combined service, to sit 
for this examination. 
Subject Subject 
No. Marks Duration Cut – off marks 
prescribed for a pass
Office Systems and procedure 09 100 02 hours 40
information and communication 
t echnology and e-government 10 100 03 hours 40
                       
 14.5.1 Office Systems and procedure (Subject No. 09)
  It is expected to test the knowledge of the candidate on office systems applied in Government 
offices and also to test the ability to apply the same. This question paper consist of multiple choice 
questions, questions for short answers and structured type questions. all the questions shall be 
answered.  
 14.5.2 Information and Communication Technology and e-government (Subject No. 10)
this question consists of two parts. 
 Part i - a  multiple choice question paper. duration is 01 hour. (40 marks)
 Part ii - a  question paper consisting of structured essay type questions. duration is 02 hours. (60 
marks)
                 (all questions shall be answered)
 This question paper shall be designed to cover the following subject fields.
(a) information and communication part of the paper consists of basic elements of it  
project life cycle such as systems analysis, systems design, software development, 
testing user acceptance testing and related areas of algorithms, HtmL, XtmL, php, 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2094
data and information security, disaster Recovery, systems, intellectual Property Rights 
and software licensing, Free and open source software, and web 2.0.
(b) e-Government part of the paper consist of system of application of ict  in Government 
organizations, application of ICT to enhance the efficiency in delivery of public 
services, technology requirements for e-Government systems, basic elements of ict  
and interoperability.
The time table for each subject of each examination is as follows:
Serial 
No. Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No. Date Time
01
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade III of  
class 3 of sri Lanka information 
and communication technology 
service
Establishments 
code 01 20.10.2024 9.00 a.m - 10.00 a.m
Financial 
Regulations 02 20.10.2024 10.30 a.m -11.30 a.m
02 Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade II of Class 
3 of sri Lanka information  
and communication technology 
service
Office Systems 
and procedure 03 19.10.2024 1.00 p.m - 3.00 p.m
information and 
communication 
technology 04 19.10.2024 9.00 a.m - 12.00 
noon 
03
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade I of Class 
3 of sri Lanka information  
and communication technology 
service
information and 
communication 
technology 
(Written test)
05 27.10.2024 9.00 a.m - 10.00 a.m
information and 
communication 
technology
(Practical test)
06 27.10.2024 10.30 a.m - 11.30 
a.m
04
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade II of Class  
2 of sri Lanka information  
and communication technology 
service
Establishments 
code 07 20.10.2024 9.00 a.m - 11.00 a.m
Financial 
Regulations 08 20.10.2024 11.30 a.m - 1.30 p.m
05
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade I of  
class 2 of sri Lanka information 
and communication technology 
service
Office systems 
and procedure 09 20.10.2024 1.00 p.m - 3.00 p.m
information and 
communication 
technology and 
e-government
10 20.10.2024 9.00 a.m - 12.00 
noon
15.0 any matter not referred to herein will be decided by director General of combined services.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2095
16.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this  notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
 S. Alokabandara,
 director General of combined services, 
 Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial  
 councils and Local Government.
13 th of september, 2024,
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial councils and Local Government
independence square,
colombo 07.
09-201
mINISTR y  Of  EDuCATION
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha iii fY%a‚hg wod< ikaOdk NdId ^bx.%Sis& úNd.h - 2024
Link Language (English) Examination for Grade III of Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service - 
2024
it is hereby notified that the Link Language (English) Examination shall be conducted in Colombo in the month of December 
2024 for the Officers in the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service in accordance with the Service Minute No. 1928/28 
dated 21st august 2015 of the sri Lanka Education administrative service.
02. Every officer of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service should obtain the proficiency in the English Language; 
the Link Language, within three (03) years from the date of Recruitment.
 
 Note 01: In case an officer has obtained at least a credit pass or pass higher than a credit pass at the G.C.E. (Ordinary 
Level) Examination or has been recruited to the Service in the English medium, such officer shall be exempted from 
the requirement of passing this Link Language (English) Examination. The other officers should get through this 
Examination.
03. the syllabus related to this examination and the other provisions have been published in the Gazette Extraordinary 
No. 1928/28 dated 21st august, 2015 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka. the syllabus and the other 
provisions have been mentioned here for the convenience of the candidates.
04. Examination Procedure - Written test
 
Subject Number Subject Marks Duration (Hours)
01 English 
Language
100 02

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2096
05. the syllabus :-
5.1 English Grammar
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammar in the spoken and the written language is 
expected from the candidates.
 - t enses and numbers 
 - sentences
  (simple/compound/complex/compound complex )
 - Relative clauses 
 - Reported speech 
 - Adjectives and adverbs 
 - determiners 
 - Prepositions
5.2 Writing Skills
the knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study.
 - Essay writing
 - summary writing skills 
 - Report writing skills 
 - Letter writing
5.3 Reading Skills
candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/written interpretation is expected.
 - Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text 
 - Reading and interpretation (verbal/written)
06. A candidate should score at least 40% marks or more to pass this subject.
 6.1 the result sheet of all the candidates who sat the examination shall be forwarded to the secretary of the ministry of 
Education by the commissioner General of Examinations. the commissioner General of Examinations shall not 
issue result sheets personally to the candidates.
07. application should be prepared using the both sides of an a4 sized paper and the Heads No. 01 to 04 should appear on 
the first page and the rest should appear in the second page and the information related to it should be included clearly 
in their own hand writing. y ou should be alert whether the application is in conformity with the specimen application 
mentioned in the Notification of the examination and you have completed the application correctly including all the 
information and whether the prescribed Examination fees have been paid and the details in that regard are included in 
the application and the receipt is affixed to the application prior to directing the application as the applications that are 
not in conformity with the specimen application and incomplete applications are rejected without notice. It is hereby 
notified that it would be beneficial to retain a photocopy of the application. It is informed that it is required to mention 
the title of the examination mentioned in the heading of the applications in English, in sinhala applications in addition 
to the sinhala Language and in English, in tamil applications in addition to the tamil Language.
08. the commissioner General of Examinations shall conduct the Examination and the candidates are required to adhere to 
the Rules and Regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations on the conduct of the examination 
and the issuance of the results. If such rules and regulations are violated, the candidates are subjected a punishments 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations. the Rules and Regulations related to this Examination are 
separately provided in this Gazette.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2097
09. True and accurate information should be supplied with consideration during the filling up the application and if it is 
confirmed that false information have been supplied or if any candidate is found as disqualified in accordance with the 
rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled before the examination or during the 
examination or after the examination or at any time.
10. the applications should be sent through registered post only through Head of the institution/Zonal directors of Education 
to reach "the commissioner General of Examinations, institutional Examinations organization division, department 
of Examinations sri Lanka, Post box 1503, colombo on or before 18.10.2024. the title of the examination should be 
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope. The applications sent after this date shall be rejected.
11. With the presumption that only the candidates fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification have applied 
for the Examination, the admissions shall be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to the candidates who 
have submitted duly perfected applications with the relevant receipt subsequent to paying the prescribed Examination 
fee along with the receipt issued after paying the Examination fee on or before the closing date of applications. a 
notification on the issuance of admissions shall be published in the official website of the Department of Examinations 
immediately after issuing admissions to candidates. A candidate; who does not receive his/her admission two or three 
days after publishing the notification, shoold inform in that regard to the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, as 
mentioned in the advertisement. Full name, address and National identity card number of the candidate and the title 
of the examination applied for should be indicated in making such inquiries. if the candidate resides outside colombo, 
it will be effective to fax a request letter along with such details of the candidate to the Fax No. mentioned in the 
notification including a fax number of the candidate through which the candidate can obtain a copy of the admission 
quickly via fax.  in inquiring so, it will be useful to get prepared to produce the copy of the application kept with 
the candidate and copy of the relevant receipt if the payment of examination fees is applicable and receipt issued for 
sending the application by registered post in order to substantiate any information requested by the department of 
Examinations. Issuance of an admission to a candidate should not be deemed as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled 
qualifications for sitting the Examination.
 
 Note 02: The complaints lodged by the candidates who fail to fulfill the requirements mentioned in the above paragraph 
No. 11 shall not be considered.
12. The signature of the candidate should have been certified in the application and the admission. The candidate should get 
the signature certified by the Head of Institute or by an officer who is authorized by the Head of Institute.
13. A candidate should sit the examination at the examination hall prescribed for him/her under the specified Index Number. 
Every candidate should hand over the admission, in which his/her signature has been attested to the supervisor of the 
Examination on the first day of sitting the Examination. A candidate who does not submit his/her admission formally is 
not premitted to sit the Examination.
14. Submission of proofs to substantiate the identity at the examination hall for each subject is the responsibility of the 
candidates. any of following documents is accepted herein.
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid Passport, or
 (iii) Valid driving License of sri Lanka
Further, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering the face and the ears so that their identity 
can be confirmed. Those who refuse to prove their identity will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, 
the candidates should remain without covering the face and the ears from the moment they enter the examination hall 
until they leave the hall  after finishing the examination so that the officials are able to identify the candidates. 
 
15. Examination fees:
 (a) the fees charged for this examination will not be refunded or transferred to any other examination under any 
circumstances.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2098
 (b) Fees are not charged for the first sitting
 (c) An amount of Rs. 250 will be charged for each sitting subsequent to the first sitting.
16. The receipt obtained by paying this examination fee to any Post Office of the island to be credited to the revenue head 
20- 03-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed firmly within the specified place of the 
application. it will be useful for the candidate to retain a photocopy of the receipt. money orders or stamps shall not be 
accepted for the examination fee.
17. In case of any inconsistency among language texts of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
languages, the sinhala text shall prevail in such an instance.
18. The Secretary of Education reserves the right of deciding any matter which is not covered by this notification.
 J. M. Thilaka Jayasundara,
 secretary,
 ministry of Education.
on this 18 day of september, 2024,
at ministry of Education, 
isurupaya, 
Pelawatta, battaramulla.
Specimen Application
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha iii fY%a‚hg wod< ikaOdk NdId ^bx.%Sis& úNd.h - 2024
Link Language (English) Examination for Grade III of Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service - 
2024
1. (i) Name in full (in English block Letters) ..........................................
  (Eg. HERatH mUdiyaNsELaGE samaN KUmaRa  GUNaW aRdHaNa)
 (ii) Name Indicating the last name first and initials of other named at the end (In English Block Capitals)
  (Eg. GUNa W aRdHaNa, H.m.s.K)
 (iii) Name in full (in sinhala/ tamil)
2. address
 i. Private : .................................................
 ii. Official : ................................................
 iii. address to which the admission should be sent : ................................
  (in English block Letters)
 iv. Official Telephone Number :
 v.  mobile telephone Number :
3.  (i) National identity card Number :
 (ii) date of birth : ...........................................
  y ear :   month :   date :
 (iii)  sex : male - 0
  Female - 1
  (Write the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2024
2099
4. (i) Grade of the sri Lanka Education administrative service :  ..........................................
 (ii) Present service station : .........................................
5. Particulars of the receipt obtained after paying the examination fee :
 Receipt Number : ......................................................
 Post Office : .........................................
 date : ..............................................
 amount Paid : .................................................
Affix the receipt here
6. i do hereby declare that information mentioned above is accurate. Further, i declare that i shall be adhered to the rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations pertaining to the conduct of the Examination 
and the issuance of results.
 ...................................... ........................................................................
 date  signature of candidate
7. commissioner General of Examinations,
 i do hereby certify that the candidate described in the above-mentioned information is serving in my institute, and he/she 
is exempted from paying the examination fee/ the receipt obtained after paying the examination fee/ the receipt obtained 
after paying the examination fees has been affixed above. (*)
   .....................................................................
   Signature, Designation and Official Stamp 
   of Head of the department
 ................................................
   date
(*) Please cut off if the payment of fee is not required.
09-219
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtmENt  oF   GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG ,  sRi  LaNKa.