

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1449
1449
wxl 1"667 - 2010 wf.daia;= ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'08'13
No. 1,667 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 13, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1452
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1459
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 20th August, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th
August, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The list of Jurors in Colombo High Court - 2009/2010 has been published in all three languages in Part VI of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1450
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1451
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1452
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th September, 20 10.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
26th July, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Palindanuwara Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional
in Pasdun Korale East Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat
Births and Deaths of Magura Division Kalutara
in Kalutara District
Kalutara Panadura Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional
in the Division of Panadura Totamuna Registrar General, District Secretariat
(Panadura Town) in Kalutara District Kalutara
08–358
––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
HAMBANTOTA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1453
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 14th September, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
26th July, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Hambantota Hambantota Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional
of Hambantota Town Division in Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Hambantota District Hambantota
08-304
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1454
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th September, 20 10.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
26th July, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kurunegala Kurunegala Post of Medical Registrar of Birth and District Secretary/Additional
Death of Kurunegala Town Division Registrar General, District Secretariat
Kurunegala
08–230
––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING
Computerised Typesetting and Editing Head Operator
(Sinhala/English)
Applications are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for the Post of
Computerised Typesetting and Editing Head Operator (Sinhala/
English) in Class III Grade III of Sri Lanka Printing Service. The
application form should be prepared as per the specimen application
form, shown at the end of this notice and fully furnished application
form should be sent by the Registered Post, addressed to
“Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, (P . O.
Box 507), No. 118, Dr. Danister de Silva Mawatha, Colombo 08” so
as to reach on or before 13th September, 2010. The top left hand
corner of the envelope bearing the application form should be indicated
of “Post of Head Operator Computerised Typesetting and Editing
(Sinhala/English)”.
Note :( a) The furnished application form or related documents
thereto should be addressed to ‘Government Printer’
only, and not to the name of any officer.
(b) Complaints regarding loss or delay in sending the
furnished application form by post will not be
considered.
(c) Those applicants who presently serving at Government
Departments and Corporations should send their
applications through their respective Heads of
Departments/Institutions.
02. Salary Scale.– (In terms of P . A. Circular No. 6/2006-IV) Rs.
14,910- 10x170- 11x180 - 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs. 24,510.
03. Age Limit.– Applicants should not less than 18 years and not
more than 45 years of age as at 13th September, 2010.
Note.– This upper age limit is not applicable to those applicants
who are presently serving at Government Departments and
Corporations.
04. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should have passed G . C. E. (Ord. Level)
examination in six subjects in not more than two sittings,
with credit passes in five subjects including Sinhala
Language/English Language and Mathematics/
Arithmetics. (Should have passed in minimum five
subjects at one sitting) ; and
(b) Should have passed G . C. E. (Adv. Level) examination
with credit passes in Sinhala Language/English Language ;
(c) When there are no applicants with credit pass in Sinhala/
English language subjects at G . C. E. (Adv. Level)
examination, those applicants who have obtained
distinction pass in above langauge subjects at the G . C.
E. (Ord. Level) examination will be called upon to sit for
an examination, conudcted by this department. The
applicants who get through this examination will be
considered for recruitment. To secure pass in this
examination 40% or more marks should be obtained by
the applicants.
05. Conditions of Appointment. – The post is permanent and
pensionable. The selected applicants must contribute to Widows’
and Orphans’/Widowers’ and Orphans’ Fund.
06. General Conditions. – Sections 12.1 and 12.6 to 12.12 of
Chapter 11 of Establishments Code will be applicable.
07. Scheme of Recruitment.– The Applicants will be subjected to
a written test and an interview and suitable candidates will be selected

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1455
to the post. Selected candidates will be placed on 3 year probation
period.
LAKSHMAN GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
(P . O. Box 507),
No. 118, Dr. Danister de Silva Mawatha,
Colombo 08,
13th August, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
(For Office use only)
D
EPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING
POST OF COMPUTERISED TYPESETTING AND EDITING HEAD OPERATOR
(SINHALA/ENGLISH)
IN CLASS III - GRADE III OF SRI LANKA PRINTING SERVICE
01. (i) Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :–––––––––. (capital)
(ii) Full name :–––––––––––. (in English capital letters)
02.  (i) Permanent address :–––––––––––. ( capital letters)
(ii) Postal address :–––––––––––. (capital letters)
*(Admission card will be sent to this address)
03. Sex (Male/Female) :–––––––––––.
04. Civil status (married/unmarried) :–––––––––––.
05. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka ? :–––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
07. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 13th September, 2010 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
08. Educational Qualification :
(i) G . C. E. (Ord. Level) Examination : ..................... (year)
Subjects Passes Subjects Passes
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
(ii) G . C. E. (Adv. Level) Examination : ..................... (year)
Subjects Passes Subjects Passes
1. 3.
2. 4.
09. Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
10. Have you committed any punishable offence or been convicted
at any court of law ? :–––––––––––.
DECLARATION OF APPLICANT
I hereby declare that the particulars given by me in this
Application Form are true and correct. Further, I understand that if
any of these particulars are found to be false and incorrect after the
appointment, I will be considered unsuitable to this post and will be
dismissed from service without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Recommendation of Head of Department/Institution
(For the applicants who are employed in Public Service/Provincial
Public Service/Local Government Service)
I confirm that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................
who is forwarding this application is serving in this office since
................... His/Her works and conduct are satisfactory and possess
necessary qualifications as mentioned in this application form and
state that he/she can/cannot be released from present service.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department/Institution.
Date :––––––––––.
08–258
––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING
Computerised Typesetting and Editing Head Operator
(Tamil/English)
APPLICATIONS are invited from Citizens of Sri Lanka for the Post
of Computerised Typesetting and Editing Head Operator (Tamil/
English) in Class III Grade III of Sri Lanka Printing Service. The
application form should be prepared as per the specimen application
form, shown at the end of this notice and fully furnished application
form should be sent by the Registered Post, addressed to
“Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, (P . O.
Box 507), No. 118, Dr. Danister de Silva Mawatha, Colombo 08” so
as to reach on or before13th September, 2010. The top left hand
corner of the envelope bearing the application form should be indicated
of “Post of Head Operator-Computerised Typesetting and Editing
(Tamil/English)”.
Note :(a) The furnished application form or related documents
thereto should be addressed to ‘Government Printer’
only, and not to the name of any officer.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1456
(b) Complaints regarding loss or delay in sending the
furnished application form by post will not be
considered.
(c) Those applicants who presently serving at Government
Departments and Corporations should send their
applications through their respective Heads of
Departments/Institutions.
02. Salary Scale.– (In terms of P . A. Circular No. 6/2006-IV) Rs.
14,910- 10x170- 11x180 - 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs. 24,510.
03. Age Limit.– Applicants should not less than 18 years and not
more than 45 years of age as at 13th September, 2010.
Note.– This upper age limit is not applicable to those applicants
who are presently serving at Government Departments and
Corporations.
04. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should have passed G. C. E. (Ord. Level)
examination in six subjects in not more than two sittings,
with credit passes in five subjects including Tamil Language/
English Language and Mathematics/Arithmetics. (Should
have passed in minimum five subjects at one sitting) ; and
(b) Should have passed G . C. E. (Adv. Level) examination
with credit passes in Tamil Language/English Language ;
(c) When there are no applicants with credit pass in Tamil/
English language subjects at G. C. E. (Adv. Level)
examination, those applicants who have obtained
distinction pass in above langauge subjects at the G . C. E.
(Ord. Level) examination will be called upon to sit for an
examination, conducted by this department. The applicants
who get through this examination will be considered for
recruitment. To secure pass in this examination 40% or
more marks should be obtained by the applicants.
05. Conditions of Appointment. – The post is permanent and
pensionable. The selected applicants must contribute to Widows’
and Orphans’/Widowers’ and Orphans’ Fund.
06. General Conditions. – Sections 12.1 and 12.6 to 12.12 of
Chapter 11 of Establishments Code will be applicable.
07. Scheme of Recruitment.– The applicants will be subjected to
a written test and an interview and suitable candidates will be selected
to the post. Selected candidates will be placed on 3 year probation
period.
L
AKSHMAN GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
(P. O. Box 507),
No. 118, Dr. Danister de Silva Mawatha,
Colombo 08,
13th August, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For Office use only)
D
EPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING
POST OF COMPUTERISED TYPE-SETTING AND EDITING HEAD OPERATOR
(TAMIL/ENGLISH)
IN CLASS III GRADE III OF SRI LANKA PRINTING SERVICE
01. (i) Name with Initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss.) :––––––––. (capital)
(ii) Full Name :–––––––––––. (in English capital letters)
02. (i) Permanent Address :–––––––––––. ( capital letters)
(ii) Postal Address :–––––––––––. (capital letters)
*(Admission card will be sent to this address)
03. Sex (Male/Female) :–––––––––––.
04. Civil status (married/unmarried) :–––––––––––.
05. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka ? :–––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
07. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 13th September, 2010 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
08. Educational Qualification :
(i) G . C. E. (Ord. Level) Examination : ..................... (year)
Subjects Passes Subjects Passes
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
(ii) G . C. E. (Adv. Level) Examination : ..................... (year)
Subjects Passes Subjects Passes
1. 3.
2. 4.
09. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
10. Have you committed any punishable offence or been convicted
at any court of law ? :–––––––––––.
DECLARATION OF APPLICANT
I hereby declare that the particulars given by me in this application
form are true and correct. Further, I understand that if any of these
particulars are found to be false and incorrect after the appointment,
I will be considered unsuitable to this post and will be dismissed
from service without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1457
RECOMMENDATION OF
HEAD OF DEP ARTMENT/INSTITUTION
(For the applicants who are employed in Public Service/Provincial
Public Service/Local Government Service)
I confirm that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. ––––––––––– who
is forwarding this application is serving in this office since –––––––
His/Her works and conduct are satisfactory and possess necessary
IMPORT  AND  EXPORT  CONTROL  DEPARTMENT
Recruitment to the Following Post in the Import and Export Control Department
COORDINATING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANT - (01 POST)
01. APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the Citizens of Sri Lanka who possesses the following  qaulifications for recruitment t o the
above post.
(a) Age Limit - Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years. (The maximum age limit will not be applicable
for those who are already serving in Public or Provincial Public Service) Not having been subjected to a punishment for
any kind of misconduct during the past five years.
02. Educational and other qualifications :
(a) Being a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should have possessed a General Degree or Special Degree including Information Technology/Computer Science as a
subject from a recongnized University.
03. Additional Qualifications :
(a) Working experience in IT field ;
(b) Ability to work in English Language.
04. Salary scale and Segment. – (Yearly) Rs.182,580 - 10 x 2,580 - 4 x 2,880 - 7 x 3,840 - 15 x 4,320 – Rs. 311,580 = M. N.
4 -2006 (A) in PA Circular No. 6/2006 (IV).
05. Method of Recruitment .– Candidates will be recruited to the permanent posts after verifying their qualification by an
interview board.
06. Method of Application.– Application should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form of  application attached here
with by both sides of a paper of size A4 and duly perfected applications should be sent to the following address by registered post before
30.08.2010 Candidates should indicate the “Recruitment to the Post of (The Post applied for) at the top of left hand corner of the
envelope.
Application received after the closing date of application will not be accepted and no responsibility will be taken for any delay
occurring in the post.
qualifications as mentioned in this application form and state that
he/she can/cannot be released from present service.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department/Institution.
Date :––––––––––.
08–259

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1458
Indicate the designation at the correct place in the application for which the candidates has posssessed qualifications.
Controller of Imports and Exports.
Import and Export Control Department,
No. 75/1/3, First Floor,
Hemas Building, York street,
Colombo 01.
S
PECIMEN FORM OF APPLICA TION
....................................
(INDICATE THE NAME OF THE POST)
IMPORTS  AND EXPORTS CONTROL DEP ARTMENT
01. 01.1 Name with initials (In English Block Capitals Mr./Mrs./Miss. :
01.2 Name with Initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :–––––––––.
01.3 Names denoted by Initials : (In English Block Capitals) :
02. 02.1 Address of Permanent Residence : (In English Block Capitals) :
03. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
03.1 Age as at 30.08.2010 :
Years :–––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.
04. Sex :–––––––––––.
05. If you are already in Public or Provincial Public Service :
05.1 Designation :–––––––––––.
05.2 Grade and Class :–––––––––––.
05.3 Whether you have been confirmed in the post ? :–––––––––––.
05.4 Ministry :–––––––––––.
05.5 Department :–––––––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications :
06.1 Name of the Degree :–––––––––––.
06.2 Class :–––––––––––.
06.3 Name of the Institution from which the said Degree was, obtained :–––––––––––.
06.4 Y ear :–––––––––––.
07. Extra Qualifications :
1. –––––––––––.
2. –––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in the application are true and accurate, I am also aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification before the selection and dismissal without any
compensation to me if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1459
Certificate of the Head of the Department if the Applicant is serving in Public Service or Provincial Public Service :
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by the officer are correct and he/she is serving in the Post of.......... ....... in
this Ministry/Department/Institution from............ I inform that he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishmen t, except
warning, during the period of past 03 years and also it is not intended to take such action against the officer. Further I info rm that the
officer can be released from the present post if he/she is selected for the above post.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department and
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––.
08–159
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  REHABILITATION  AND  PRISON
REFORMS
Open Competitive Examination for the recruitment of
Assistant Superintendent of Prisons in the Department of
Prisons – 2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from male citizens of Sri Lanka, with
the qualifications stipulated hereunder, for the posts of Assistant
Superintendent of Prisons in the Department of Prisons. The
Application Forms prepared in accordance with the specimen form
attach hereto, should be sent on ........ or before 09.09.2010. This
open examination will be held in Colombo.
Note.– Late applications will not be accepted and will hold no
responsibility of the applications delayed or lost in the
post. The applicants should themselves incur the loss due
to delay in furnishing the applications.
02. Terms of Engagement and conditions of service.– This post is
permanent and pensionable. The appointment will be on probation
for a period of three years. The selected candidate should be prepared
to serve in any prison institution in the island and if official quarters
are available at the attached Prison Institution the applicant should
reside at the said official quarters.
03. Salary Scale. – Salary Code No. SL-1-2006 (initial step)
Salary Scale.– Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
The appointees are required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination
within three years from the date of appointment to the post.
04. Qualifications.– All applicants should furnish satisfactory
evidence in proof of the following.
(a) Educational qualifications :
1. Should be a degree holder from a recognized university
or an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court.
2. Should have passed General Certificate of Education
Ordinary Level Examination with a Credit pass for
English Language.
(b) Physical Qualifications :
1. Minimum height 5 feet 4 inches.
2. Should have a chest measurement of 32 inches deflated.
3. Should be of physically sound.
(c) Age limit.– Not less than 18 years and not more than 45
years. (The upper age limit will not apply to those who are
already in the Public Service).
05. Applicants should be prepared to produce any of or all the
original certificates of following documents, when called for :
(a) Certificate of Registration of Birth.
(Note.– Baptism Certificate issued for the purposes of code
of Regulations for Assisted schools will not be accepted) ;
(b) Originals of highest Educational Certificates ;
(c) Two character certificates (one of them should be from a
Director of Education or University lecturer or a professor) ;
(d) Certificates of Professional qualifications and skills ;
(e) Certificates on Highest Examination passed in English
Language ;
(f) Identity Card to establish the applicant’s identity.
Note :
1. A copy of any other application or document should not
be attached.
2. No consideration will be made on the applicants those
who could not submit the documents whenever requested.
06. Method of Recruitment. – Applicants who possess
qualifications mentioned in 4th para. will be recruited on the results
of the written test and oral test/interview. 200 marks will be given to
the written test and 100 marks will be given to sports activities,
personality, leadership and extra curricular activities at the oral/
interview. (In order to be qualified in one subject the candidates are
required to obtain 40 marks or above. A number equal to five times
existing vacancies will be called for the interview from among the
candidates who have obtained highest marks at the written
examination).

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1460
07. Scheme of Examination :
7.1 The examination will consist of two parts ; i. e. written
examination and oral/interview.
7.1.1 Written examination will consist of two question
papers. Duration of each paper is mentioned in front
of the paper.
Question Paper Time Marks
(a) Intelligence test and General 45 minutes 50
Knowledge
(Part I - Intelligence test)
Intelligence test and General 45 minutes 50
Knowledge
(Part II - General Knowledge)
(b) Case study 2 hours 100
7.1.2 Oral/Interview
Oral test - 100 marks
7.2 Medium :
7.2.1 Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English Medium.
7.2.2 A candidate should sit for the examination in the
language in which he passed the degree.
7.2.3 A candidate who has passed subjects at the degree
examination in more than one language, should sit
the examination in the language in which he passed
the majority of subjects at such examination.
7.2.4 A candidate with a special degree who has passed
the principal subjects at one language and the
subsidiary subject in another language should sit
the examination in the language in which he passed
the principal subject.
7.2.5 A candidate must sit all the papers of the
examination in one and the same language.
7.2.6 A candidate will not be permitted to change the
language of the examination after the closing date
of the application.
7.3 Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence test and General knowledge :
The paper will consist of questions designed to test
the candidate's ability in logical thinking and analytical
reasoning and the General Paper designed to test the
knowledge of candidate on matters relating to
information technology, the political, social, cultural
and economic environment of Sri Lanka including the
environment where the candidate is resident and current
affairs of national and international importance and
scientific and technical developments. This question
paper consists of multiple choice questions and those
for which short replies are required.
(b) Case Study.– The paper will consist of four questions
on matters relating to Personnel Management,
Establishments management, Welfare, Agricultural and
Rehabilitation activities and production activities of
small scale industries.
08. Application Forms :
8.1 The application form should be filled in by the candidate's
own handwriting and from item 01-6 should be in the first
page and item 07-11 should be in the second page and the
rest should be in the third and fourth pages. Application
forms not in conformity with the specimen form and an
incompleted application forms will be rejected without
notice. A photocopy of the application form should be
retained for future reference. When preparing the
application, the name of the examination mentioned at
the top of the application should be indicated in English,
in addition to Sinhala. In Sinhala applications the name of
the examination should be indicated in English in addition
to Tamil in the Tamil application.
8.2 The completed applications should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Dpeartment of Examinations, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla. The words "Open Competitive Examination
for recruitment to the post of Assistant Superintendent
of Prisons - 2010" should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope containing the application.
8.3 Officers those who are already in Public Service should
sent their application forms through the respective Heads
of Departments to reach the Commissioner General of
Examinations on or before the closing date of applications.
8.4 Applications should completed in all respects.
Applications not confirming to the specimen form will be
rejected without any notice.
09. Examination Fee.– The fee for the examination will be Rs.
400 which may be paid at any Divisional Secretariat or District
Secretariat (to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.) The receipt obtained should
be  affixed to the relevant cage of the application. (Please keep a
photocopy of a receipt for future reference). The examination fees
paid will not be refunded. Money orders and stamps will not be
accepted).
10. Admissions to the Examination :
10.1 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue an
admission cards to each applicant. A candidate presenting
himself for the examination must produce his admission

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1461
card to the supervisor of the examination centre. A
candidate who fails to produce his admission card will
not be permitted to sit for the examination.
10.2 As soon as admission cards are issued to applicants, a
newspaper notice will be published by the Department
of Examinations. Candidates who do not receive admission
cards even after 2 or 3 days from the date of publication
of the notice should inform the Department of
Examinations as mentioned in the notice. It would be
effective to make inquiries in that regard with the following
particulars. Certified photocopy of the application and
the receipt, registered article receipt, if the candidate is
resident outside the Colombo, a Fax Number to send the
admission and your letter of request.
10.3 The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
means that he or she has the requisite qualifications.
11. Attestation of the Applicant's Signature :
11.1 The applicants those who are already in Public Service
should get their signatures attested by their Heads of the
Departments or by an officer Authorized to do so on his
behalf.
11.2 The signature of the applicant should be attested by an
authorized person or any one of the following : a Principal
of a Government School, Justice of the Peace,
Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, a Commissioned
Officer in Armed Forces, an officer holding a Gazetted
post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent
post in Government with an annual salary of Rs. 276,220
or above, an officer with an annual increment of Rs. 7,740
or above or in case of an officer in Public/Provincial Pubilc
Service by the Head of the relevant institution.
12. Identity Cards .– Candidates are required to prove his/her
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor
in respect of each subject he/she offers. For this purpose any one of
the following documents will be accepted :–
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
13. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to
be false, he/she is liable to be disqualified before selection and to be
dismissed from Public Service after the appointment.
14. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
15. The candidate should strictly adhere to the rules of examination
set out in this Gazette. All candidates are bound to act in conformity
with the rules imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
A candidate who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment
at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations.
Secretary,
Ministry of Rehabilitation and
Prison Reforms.
At the Ministry of Rehabilitation and Prison Reforms,
Colombo 08,
26th July, 2010.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION
O
PEN EXAMINA TION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT OF PRISONS IN SRI LANKA – 2010
Medium of Language :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (write the relevant letter in the cage)
01. Name of the applicant :––––––––––.
01.1 Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
01.2 Name with initials (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
01.3 Names denoted by initials (in English block capitals) :
––––––––––.
02. Address :
02.1 Permanent address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
02.2 Permanent address (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
02.3 Official address :––––––––––.
03. Race :
Sinhala - 1 Malay - 5
Sri Lankan Tamil - 2 Burgher - 6
Indian Tamil - 3 Others - 7
Muslim - 4
(write the relevant number in the cage)
04. Whether married or single :
Single - 1
Married - 2
(write the relevant number in the cage)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Whether the citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––.
(If so state the citizenship by descent or by registration)
07. Age :
07.1 Date of birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
07.2 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
1462
08. Qualifications :––––––––––.
08.1 Educational qualifications.– (State degrees received with
the Class if any, particulars including subjects and
Institutions of Professional and Technical qualifications) :
Examination/Degree Year Subjects Institution
1.
2.
3.
4.
08.2 Professional qualifications :––––––––––.
09. Highest examination passed :
(1) Sinhala :––––––––––.
(2) Tamil :––––––––––.
(3) English :––––––––––.
10. Particulars in respect of any work engaged in and/or trainings
undergone after leaving the school (state the dates of resuming
duties and resigning from the positions and the reasons to
resign) :––––––––––.
11. Particulars of the present post :
(a) Post :––––––––––.
(b) Department/Ministry :––––––––––.
(c) Date of appointment :––––––––––.
(d) State whether permanent/pensionable/non pensionable/
Temporary :––––––––––.
(e) State whether confirmed in the post :––––––––––.
(f) Salary scale and the present salary :––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law for any
offence ? If yes give particulars :––––––––––.
13. Names, positions and addresses of Referees :––––––––––.
14. Receipt for payment of examination fees should be firmly pasted
here :
(i) Number of receipt :––––––––––.
(ii) Date :––––––––––.
(iii) District/Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
(iv) Amount paid :––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that I am liable to be
disqualified before selection and to be dismissed after the
appointment if this declaration is proved to be incorrect. I agree to
abide by the conditions of this examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
16. Attestation of the applicant’s signature :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .....................
who is submitting this application is personally known to me and
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ................. Further
I certify that relevant examination fees has been paid and the receipt
has been pasted.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
17. Certificate of Head of the Department if the applicant is in the
Public Service :
I declare that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... is an
employee of this Department/Institution and the particulars
mentioned in Chapter 11 is correct/It should be amended as follows
and his/her work and conduct are satisfactory. He/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature and the post of the
Head of the Department.
(Official Stamp)
Date :––––––––––.
08–187
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.