

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2341$02 – 2023 cq,s ui 17 jeks i÷od – 2023'07'17
No. 2341/02 – MONDAY, JULY 17, 2023
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 39905 – 20 (07/2023)
My No. CI/1887
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between P G P Glass Ceylon PLC, No. 148, Maligawa Road, Borupana, Ratmalana 
of the one part and the Inter Company Employees Union, No.10, C ouncil Lane, Dehiwala of the other part on 17 th 
February 2023 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial D isputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative 
Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
06
th July, 2023
Collective Agreement No. 13 of 2023


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 2A
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
2022 - 2024
BETWEEN
P G P GLASS CEYLON PLC
&
INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES UNION
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2022
This Agreement entered into by and between "PGP Glass Ceylon PLC " (PQ 190), a company duly incorporated in Sri Lanka 
and having its registered oﬃ  ce at No.148, Maligawa Road, Borupana, Ratmalana (hereinafter referred to as the "Employer") 
and "Inter Company Employees Union"  a  Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka, having its registered oﬃ   ce at 
No. 10, Council Lane, Dehiwala. (Hereinafter referred to as "the Union")
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
TITLE: The Collective Agreement shall be known and referred to as the PGP Glass Ceylon PLC Collective Agreement 2022.
1. PARTIES COVERED AND BOUND BY THE AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and  all Permanent employees who are members of the 
Union and are in employment as at the date of signing of this Agreement.
2. DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION
This agreement shall be eﬀ ective from 1st April, Two Thousand Twenty Two (01.04.2022) and shall thereafter continue to 
be in force unless it is terminated by either party giving one month's notice, in writing, to the other party provided however 
that neither party hereto shall give such notice to the other party prior to the 28th of February, 2025.
3. REPUDIATION OF PREVIOUS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of th e previous Collective Agreements signed between the 
parties and all such previous Collective Agreements shall stand terminated with eﬀ ect from the date on which this Collective 
Agreement comes into force.
4. SALARIES
The employer agrees to grant the following increases of salarie s to all permanent employees covered and bound by this 
Agreement, on the following basis during the pendency of this Agreement. The Following revision shall be subject to the 
relevant employees being in service as at the date signing of this agreement.
i) Period from 01st April 2022 to 31st March 2023 (1st Year)
a)  With eﬀ ect from 01st April 2022, Rs. 7000/= or an amount equivalent to 14%, of the basic salary of an employee as 
at 1st April, 2022 whichever is higher, will be added to the basic salary.
b)  Thereafter, a further sum of Rs.335/= being the rupee value of 5 points of the Colombo Consumer Price Index (CCPI) 
calculated at the rate of Rs. 67/= per point, will be added to the basic salary of each employee covered and bound 
by this agreement with eﬀ ect from 01st April 2022.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 3A
c)  To pay a sum of Rs. 136,000/= in lieu of NRCOLG (Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity) for the period referred 
to above and out of the said total amount, an amount of Rs. 6,000/= shall be paid as an advance, monthly (for a period 
of twelve months) and Rs. 72,000/= paid as an advance will be d educted from the total amount and the remaining 
balance amount of Rs. 64,000/= will be paid during the month of April 2023.
Parties agree that the said advance payment of Rs. 6000/= per month in terms of 4 (i) (c) has already paid as a monthly 
advance, up to the date of signing of this agreement. 
Parties agree that the payments made in terms of 4(i) (c) above , will not attract EPF/ETF or any other statutory or 
consequential beneﬁ ts.
The arrears as per 4(i) above will be paid subject to the relevant deductions.
The arrears payable as per 4(i) a) and (b) will attract EPF, ETF, and Attendance Allowance, Overtime and Holiday 
Pay only.
ii) Period from 01st April 2023 to 31st March 2024 (2nd Year)
a)  With eﬀ ect from 01st April 2023, Rs. 6000/= or an amount equivalent to 12%, of the basic salary of an employee as 
at 1st April, 2022 whichever is higher, will be added to the basic salary.
b)  Thereafter, a further sum of Rs.335/= being the rupee value of 5 points of the Colombo Consumer Price Index (CCPI) 
calculated at the rate of Rs. 67/= per point, will be added to the basic salary of each employee covered and bound 
by this agreement with eﬀ ect from 01st April 2023.
b) To pay a sum of Rs. 140,000/= in lieu of NRCOLG (Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity) for the period referred 
to  above and out of the said total amount, an amount of Rs.6,0 00/= shall be paid as an advance, monthly ( for a 
period of  twelve months ) and Rs.72,000/= paid as advance will be deducted from the total amount, and the remaining 
balance amount of Rs. 68,000/=will be paid during the month of April 2024.
Parties agree that the payments made in terms of 4(ii) (c) above, will not attract EPF/ETF or any other statutory or 
consequential beneﬁ ts.
iii) Period from 01st April 2024 to 31st March 2025 (3rd Year)
a) With eﬀ  ect from 01st April 2024, Rs. 6000/= or an amount equivalent to 12%, of the basic salary of an employee 
as at lst  April, 2022 whichever is higher, will be added to the basic salary.
b) Thereafter, a further sum of Rs.335/= being the rupee value of 5 points of the Colombo Consumer Price Index 
(CCPI) calculated at the rate of Rs. 67/= per point, will be added to the basic salary of each employee covered and 
bound by this agreement with eﬀ ect from 01st April 2024.
c) To pay a sum of Rs. 144,000/= in lieu of NRCOLG (Non-Recurri ng Cost of Living Gratuity) for the period referred 
to above and from the said total amount, an amount of Rs. 6,000/= shall be paid as an advance, monthly (for a period 
of twelve months) and Rs.72,000/= paid as an advance will be de ducted from the total amount, and the remaining 
balance amount of Rs. 72,000/=will be paid during the month of April 2025.
 Parties agree that the above payments made in terms of 4(iii) (c), will not attract EPF/ETF or any other statutory 
or consequential beneﬁ ts.
 
 iv) The Union and their members agree not to make further dema nds or raise issues / requests on matters relating to 
salaries / wages or salary increase of any employees during the period covered by this agreement.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 4A
5. The Union and employees agree that if during the continuance in force of this agreement, the Government of Sri 
Lanka:
i) Prescribes in any year, increases in salary / and or any all owances by any written Law applicable to categories of 
 employees covered by this agreement, the employer shall be ent itled to take credit for the salary increases granted to 
an employee in respect of such year in terms of clause 4 hereof and determined the increase, if any, that is granted 
to an employee accordingly.
ii) Recommends increases in salaries and or any allowances, suc h recommendations will not be applicable to the 
employer regardless of whether or not such recommendation is ap plicable to the categories of the employees 
covered by this agreement.
6. SHIFT, HEAT & DUST, MACHINE, SUBSISTENCE AND DISTURBANCE ALLOWANCES
i)  Shift Allowance
The shift allowance payable for 8 hours shift to the relevant employees is as follows: -
Shift   Amount
Morning   - Rs.10/=
Afternoon - Rs.20/=
Night  - Rs.35/=
When an employee reports for duty on short leave or half day on his scheduled work, the allowance would be 
calculated on pro-rata basis.
ii) Heat & Dust Allowance
The Heat & Dust allowance payable for an 8-hour scheduled shift to the relevant employees is as follows: -
Heat Allowance - Rs. 60/= (Furnace)
Dust Allowance - Rs. 60/= (Batch House)
This would be conﬁ ned to relevant employees in line with the existing norms. When an employee reports for duty on short 
leave or half day on his scheduled work, the allowance would be calcinated on pro-rata basis.
 
iii) Machine Allowance
Machine allowance - Rs. 100/= (Hot End & IS)
Machine allowance is applicable to employees who are permanentl y attached to Hot End and IS divisions. This allowance 
will be paid only when the relevant employee arrives at his scheduled shift. Therefore, this allowance will not be paid during 
the period when the employee is engaged at work on overtime. When an employee reports for duty on short leave or half day 
on his scheduled work, the allowance would be calculated on pro-rata basis.
iv)  Technical recompense
 Technical recompense payable for an 8-hour scheduled shift onl y for the employees indicated as follows: -
Electrical and Instrumentation - Rs.60/=
General Maintenance - Rs.60/=
The aforementioned payments in Clauses 6 (ii) and 6 (iv) will come into eﬀ ect from the date of signing the collective 
agreement. When an employee reports for duty on short half day on his scheduled work, the allowance would be 
calculated on pro-rata basis.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 5A
The employer is required to take further possible measures to minimize the impact arising out of heat, dust, and sound.
v)  Subsistence allowance & Disturbance allowance
• Subsistence allowance Rs.l75/=
• Disturbance allowance of Rs.250/=
• Disturbance allowance of Rs.300/=for the employees who are ca lled to perform emergency duties on 
operational requirements without prior notice. This will come i nto operation from the date of signing the 
Collective Agreement.
This would be conﬁ ned to relevant conditions and relevant employees in line with  the existing norms.
7. WELFARE ACTIVITIES
 i) Donation in the event of a Death
  In the event of a death of a permanent employee, who is covered and bound by this agreement, the employer agrees 
to pay Rs. 250,000/= to the person who has been nominated by the employee.
 ii)  Service Awards
  It is agreed between the parties that the following service awards shall be granted when an employee completes the 
relevant service periods as indicated below: -
   a) An Employee who has completed 15 years of continuous serv ice shall receive an 8g gold coin.
   b) An Employee who has completed 25 years of continuous serv ice shall receive a 10g gold coin.
   c) An Employee who has completed 30 years of continuous serv ice shall receive a 12g gold coin.
   d) The relevant service period shall be determined taking in to consideration 1st April of each year as the base 
date.
   e) Employees shall be entitled to the service award in the e vent of termination of their services, only on the 
following grounds provided that other requirements, in granting the service award, have been fulﬁ lled: -
• Resignation from service 
• V oluntary Retirement
• Reaching the age of retirement as per the letter of appointme nt
   f) The relevant period of service as per (e) shall be determ ined by taking the last date of employment into 
consideration.
   g) Exemptions:
    (I) It    is   agreed    to   grant    the  25-year    service   award   to   an   employee    who   has   completed    a   
continuous period of 20 years of service, at the time of his retirement and has received rthe 15 year Service 
award
       (II)  It is also agreed to grant the 30-year service award to a n employee who has been in continuous service 
for a minimum period of one year after becoming entitled for the 25 year service award and at the time of 
retirement. 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 6A
8. INSURANCE  SCHEME
 i) The Employer shall contribute 60% of the premium while the employee is required to contribute 40% of the 
premium for the said insurance scheme. The present maximum claim of Rs. 180,000/- per family per annum, will 
be increased to Rs. 200,000/= from the next ﬁ nancial year. The sharing ratio (60:40) will remain the same d uring 
the pendency of this agreement.
9. MEDICAL TEST
  An appropriate medical test for the employees deployed in the  Batch House, Furnace, Hot End, Cold End, Packing, 
Printing and Quality Assurance, in addition, employees who are engaged in maintenance activities of IS section, 
General maintenance and Instrument Technician in the Electrical Division shall be carried out on a schedule to be 
made by the employer. In addition, examination of eyes for all employees at the Cold End shall also be carried out 
according to a schedule made by the employer.
  
  The above tests are mandatory, and employees agree to make th emselves available for the respective tests, according 
to the schedule made by the employer.
10. The employees covered by this Agreement agree to actively atte nd and undergo all training initiatives of the 
company, such as Management Information System (MIS) Internatio nal Organization for Standardization (ISO), 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS), Kaizen, 5S, CLTI, Total Quality Management (TQM), 
Technical Training, Area Eﬀ ectiveness Team (AET) Six Sigma, Parivarthan, TPM, Digital & RTMI, E-learning etc.
  The Union and employees agree to participate the above traini ng programs and are individually and collectively 
bound to actively implement and complete the aspects referred to above.
  The Union and employees agree to actively participate to cont inue A Parivarthan, RTMI and the above processes, 
CLTI related activities and the implementation of 5S concept in the workplace and the Trade Union and employees 
agree to maintain the records and entries that the company introduced to each section.
  The Union and the employees also agree to co-operate and supp ort measures / initiatives and quality improvement 
by involving themselves in self-managed group activities (inclu ding Parivarthan, RTMI, E-learning), idea Bank 
and suggest scheme for productivity improvement.
  A Certiﬁ  cate / Letter of participations will be issued to the employee s on successful completion of structured 
Training programs conducted by the management. A letter of participation for structured training program will be 
issued by the management.
11. In view of the continuous manufacturing process that is operat ive in the factory, the Trade Union and the employees 
agree to co-operate to curb absenteeism and extending genuine s upport for achieving planned targets and plant 
eﬃ  ciency.
12. No employee shall leave his / her place or work / department t ill his reliever arrives and reports for duty and hands 
over change to the next person on the shift. They should be in full uniform with required personal protective 
equipment (PPE) and should meet at machine ﬂ oor to brief about the production and machine condition and defects 
to incoming employee.
13. It shall be the responsibility of the employees to observe ass et care initiative by taking care of the tools, machine, 
spare parts and proper packing of shop ﬂ oor materials. The Trade Union and employees agree that missing mould 
equipment which are not found need to be reported to their own sections.
14. The Union and the employees agree for monitoring running bottl es, identifying defects in the production conveyer, 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 7A
taking recovery actions by machine operator when producing all types of bottles.
  The Union and employee agree to enter the blow mold number in  RTMI except during job change, defect 
acknowledgement, to attend to the possible defect rectiﬁ cation by machine operators. If any defect, correction is 
beyond their control it should be informed to shift executive immediately.
15. The Union and the employees agree that machine operators shoul d load the gob time to time on demand and ensure 
that sheer spray water and wear handing should be done properly and make corrections whenever necessary.
16.  The Union and Employees agree to the Usage of Personal Protec tive Equipment (PPE), adhering to safety instruction 
and norms as per standards and follow the requirements of ISO standards at the workplace are mandatory requirement.
17.  The Union and employees agree that the use of mobile phones a t the workplace shall be strictly on prior approval and 
shall be under exceptional circumstances. They further agree that the mobile phones are permitted to bring to the factory 
premises based on the said conditions only.
18.  The Union and employees agree to keep their respective workpl ace clean and to keep the machinery, equipment and 
goods in an orderly manner.
19.  The Union the employees and the agree to align with the inspe ction / observation procedures, which are required for the 
security of the organization.
20.  As per the current systerm, machine operators in the hot end section agree to measure the weight of the bottle in the 
relevant production line and to record it.
21.  The Union and employees agree to do blank and blow parallel s wabbing every one hour in P1, P2, P3 and P4 lines and 
they will do parallel swabbing in P5 line two times per hour in line with the rotation of the machine operators for the 
purpose of regularizing present duties carried out by the same employees. The Union and employees agree to follow the 
procedure adapted in P1, P2, P3 and P4 lines whenever the said employees are deployed to work in P0.
22.  The Union and the employees accept the need for is employees'  involvement to start the IS machine after job change 
and handling of variables and mould equipment carefully to improve eﬃ  ciency and reduce T1.
  Further, all the other relevant departments should support to  reduce T2 time. The Union and employees agree for 
attending to start  the machine after every job change by IS employees and to bring IS ﬁ tters for job changes in the early 
hours, that is to attend as they came before as per management requirement.
23.  The Union and the Employees who are memebers of the Union agr ee to work appropriately and with due concentration 
in relation to their respective work areas during their working hours within the organization. The Employer agrees to 
provide the necessary facilities and the work environment for this purpose.
 
24.  In view of the continuous manufacturing process that is operative in the factory, the Union and the employees agree to 
concentrate and co-operate to minimize and control re-sorting.
25.  The Union and the Furnace Operators in furnace department agr ee to remove and install stirrers of cord disposal, The 
Union and employees agree to maintain quanti drain (when there are three employees) and properly supervise and 
observe the system when color forehearth is not in operation.
  It was also agreed by the Union to attend hot Repair work inc luding Chimney Damper replacement, Water Jacket 
work during spout Changes For such situations management agree to deploy additional furnace operators as per the 
requirement.
26.  The Union and employees agree that they are bound by the disc iplinary standards / norms and work arrangements and 
prevailing procedures of the company, and the company has the right to take appropriate disciplinary action against and 
misconduct / violation.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 8A
27.  The Union and Employees agree to actively and enthusiasticall y participate in all activities done and to be initiated to 
preserve energy.
28.  The Union and Cold End Supervisors agree to change the lines once a month.
29.  The Union and employees agree to involve themselves actively and eﬃ  ciently in various committees, including, safety 
committee, canteen committee, welfare committee etc.
30.  The Union and employee agree that any sabotage act carried-ou t which will have an adverse impact on productivity, 
eﬃ  ciency and sales would be considered as violation of agreement.
31.  Trade Union and Employees agree to take all possible measures  to enhance plant performance, productivity, Quality 
and eﬃ  ciency.
32.  The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound  by this agreement, jointly and severally agree with 
the employer that during the continuance in force of this agreement, they shall not engage in any strike or other form of 
the Union action against the employer in respect of any dispute between the employer on the one hand and the Union 
and /or its members and/or any employees covered and bound by this agreement on the other hand when such dispute 
is related to a matter/matters covered by this agreement.
33.  The Union and employees agree to take immediate actions when it is known that an attempt is being made to infringe 
or violate any clauses of this agreement by any member individually or collectively.
34. Grievance and Dispute Settlement Procedure
  In the event of any dispute or grievance in relation to a mat ter/dispute not covered under this collective agreement, 
between an employee or employees / ''Trade Union" and the employer, the following procedure shall be followed for 
the settlement of such dispute or in resolving such grievance:
  i. The employee or the "Trade Union" representative shall, in  the ﬁ rst instance, raise the dispute or grievance with the 
Sectional Manager / departmental Head.
  ii.  If the dispute or grievance is not satisfactorily resolv ed as referred to at 34.i above, the employee or the "Trade 
Union" representative shall then refer the matter to the Human Resource Manager in writing, and the Human 
Resource Manager shall discuss the matter with the employee or the "Trade Union" representative and Endeavour 
to bring about a settlement.
  iii. If no satisfactory solution is arrived at the discussion s in 34.ii above, then the matter in dispute shall be discussed by 
the employee or "Trade Union" with the members of the senior management represented by the present designation 
of General Manager / Vice President.
  iv. If no satisfactory solution is arrived at the discussion in 34.iii above, then the matter in dispute shall be discussed by   
the Employee or "Trade Union" with the COO/CEO/President.
  v. If the dispute is not resolved as referred to at 34-iv abo ve, the employee / Trade Union shall pursue the matter with 
the Employers' Federation of Ceylon (EFC), of which the employer is a member.
  vi. If after discussion the matter cannot be resolved buy the  intervention of EFC or undercertain circumstances if 
the "Trade Union" deicide not to \ agree for the intervention of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, after giving 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 9A
reasons to that eﬀ ect in writing, and then conciliatory proceeding under the Ind usrial Dispute Act (IDA) should 
be followed.
  vii. a) If the Conciliation in the Department of Labour fails , and the '' Trade Union'' contemplates stoppage of work 
or strike action, not less then 21 days prior written notice should be given to the employer and to the EFC.
 b) If any Trade union action other then the action referred to  under 34. vii -a) is contemplated not less then 7 days 
prior written notice should be given to the employer and the EFC.
 viii. Without prejudice th the privisions above, the employees  the '' Trade Union'' and its members hereby agree that 
they shall not resort to any Trade union action in respect of any dispute not covered by this agreement without 
having recourse to the Grievance and Disputes Settlement Procedure set out herein.
 ix. Management agreed to reply Union letters on disputes withi n a period of 7 working days.
35.  i) the term ''Union'' shall include an employee / employees  and/or Trade Union as well.
   ii) ''Salaries or Wages'' mean consolidated salaries or wage s.
In witnes hereof, the parties placed their signatures on this o n 17th February, Two Thousand & Twenty- Three,  at 
Colombo.


<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 10A
EOG 07-0134
My No.: CI/1670
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
The Collective Agreement entered into between Paints and Genera l Industries Ltd, 4th Floor Propertex Building, 108, 
W.A.D. Ramanayaka Mawatha, Colombo 2 of the one part and the Inter Company Employees Union No.10, Council Lane , 
Dehiwala of the  other part on 09th February 2023 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං, 
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
06th July, 2023.
Collective Agreement No. 14 of 2023

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 11A
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 
Between
PAINTS AND GENERAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
And
INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEE'S UNION
OF
2023- 2025
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This collective agreement entered into between Paints and Gener al Industries Ltd, a Company duly registered and having 
its registered oﬃ  ce at 4th Floor, Propertex Building, 108, W.A.D. Ramanayaka Mawatha, Colombo 2 (hereinafter referred 
to as "the Employer") and the Inter Company Employees Union a T rade Union duly registered and having its registered 
oﬃ  ce at No. 10, Council Lane, Dehiwela (hereinafter referred to as "the Union"), on this 09th day of February Two Thousand 
Twenty-Three.
Whereas the Union made certain demands of the Employer for the revision of wages and other terms and conditions of their 
members employed by the Employer, and parties having arrived at the following terms of agreement, as set out below:
 1. PARTIES COVERED AND BOUND
  The terms of this agreement shall cover and bind the Employer , the Union and the members of the Union 
employed on permanent contracts of employment by the Employer i n the Manual/Operative grades in the 
Company.
 2.  OPERATION OF AGREEMENT
  This Agreement shall take eﬀ  ect from 01 st January 2023 and, unless otherwise terminated by either party to 
this agreement by giving notice to the other under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, shall continue 
to remain in force provided, however, that neither party to this agreement shall give notice of such termination 
prior to the 30th of November 2025.
 3.  SALARIES
  Employer agrees to revise the salaries of the employees for t he duration of the Collective Agreement as follows:
  From 1st January 2023 - Rs. 2,500/=
  From 1st January 2024 - Rs. 1,250/=
  From 1st January 2025 - Rs. 1,500/=
   4. ANNUAL  INCREMENTAL  RATES
     The present rates of annual increment will remain unchange d for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
    5.       MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT
 The Employer agrees to increase the reimbursement of expenses incurred for treatment / purchase of spectacles or 
lenses by employees as given below, with eﬀ ect from 1st January 2023.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 12A
  I. OPD medical treatment -   Rs.9,200/= per annum
  II. a) Purchase of Spectacles  -   Rs.6,000/= once in Ten (10 ) years
     reimbursement
   b) Replacement ol lenses - Rs 4,000/= once in three years
 At the same time, the Union agrees to extend its fullest coope ration to prevent the misuse by employees of medical 
facilities obtained from the company Doctor.
 6. DEATH DONATION
 The Employer agrees to increase the company’s monthly contribu tion towards the death donation society contribution 
per employee up to Rs. 140/=
   In the event of the death of a family member, the present pa yment of Rs.7,000/= will be increased to Rs.8,000/=
 7. JOB ROTATION
   The Employer agrees to carry on job rotation based on manpow er requirement and business exigencies.
 8. The Union, together with their members, hereby undertake that during the period of operation of this Agreement, 
they shall extend their fullest Co-operation to the Company to carry out all its lawful activities.
 
 9. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Gover nment prescribes increases in salary by any written 
law, which shall be applicable to the Company, the Employer shall be entitled to take credit for the increases granted 
in terms of this Agreement.
 10. The Employer, the Union and the employees covered and bound by  this Agreement undertake that they shall not 
during the continuance of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to any of the terms and conditions agreed upon 
herein and it is also agreed that the Trade Union and the emplo yees shall not resort to any form of Trade Union 
action in relation to any dispute connected with or arising out of any matter covered by this Agreement.
 11.Parties also agree to resolve any dispute, whether covered by this agreement or not, in the following manner:-
a) Firstly, the Branch and the Management would attempt to sett le such issue/dispute at the Company level. A written 
statement of the dispute shall be forwarded by the Union’s branch committee to the Employer, and at least three weeks’ 
time given for the Employer to resolve the dispute.
b) In the event of non-resolution of the dispute at Stage (a) a bove, the Employers Federation of Ceylon shall invite the 
Union and its members for a discussion to resolve such dispute.
c) In the event of non-resolution of the dispute at Stage (b) above, parties agree to resolve the relevant dispute in accordance 
with the conciliation proceedings in terms of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.
d) In the event of non-resolution of the dispute at Stage (c) a bove, the Union agrees that they would give 14 days prior 
notice, in writing, before engaging in any Trade Union action.
 
12. EXISTING TERMS
 Subject to the revisions speciﬁ  cally set out herein, the terms and conditions of employment o f employees covered and 
bound by this Agreement as at 31 December 2022 shall continue to remain in force.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.07.2023
 13A
     In witness hereof, parties have set their hands on this 09th day of February Two Thousand Twenty -Three at Rajagiriya.
 For and on behalf of:     For and on behalf of:
 PAINTS & GENERAL INDUSTRIES LTD.   INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES’ UN ION
 
 EOG 07 - 0136
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.