

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'02'29
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.02.2008
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1823$42 - 2013 wf.daia;= ui 15 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'08'15
No. 1823/42 - THURSDAY ,  AUGUST  15,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & c., by the President
 BY  HIS  EXCELLENCY  MAHINDA  RAJAPAKSA  PRESIDENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
P.S. No. : CSA/7/8/15.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA
To :
1. Maxwell Parakrama Paranagama Esquire
2. Madam Dimingu Badathuruge Priyanthi Suranjana Vidyaratne
3. Madam Mano Ramanathan
Greetings :
Whereas, complaints have been received to the effect that some persons resident in the Northern and Eastern
Provinces of Sri Lanka which were affected by unfortunate incidents during the period June 10, 1990 when the second Elam
War started  and May 19, 2009 when the said War ended, were abducted from their places of residence or such persons had
disappeared from their places of residence, and that the whereabouts of those persons alleged to have been abducted or
have disappeared are not known.
And whereas, it has become necessary to ascertain the veracity of such complaint and to identify those person
alleged to have been so abducted or have disappeared, in case such complaint are found to be true,
And whereas, it has also become necessary to identify the person or persons responsible for such abductions or
disappearances and to institute legal action against such person or persons,
And whereas, I am of the opinion that it is in the interest of the public security and wel-being to conduct inquiries
in order to determine what measures should be adopted to ensure that there will be no recurrence of such acts in the future,
1A
 Seal
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2013
2A
Whereas, I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigate and report
on matters hereinafter referred to,
Now therefore I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing great
turst and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, do, in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the Commissions
of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393), by these presents appoint you, the said :
1. Maxwell Parakrama Paranagama Esquire
2. Madam Dimingu Badathuruge Priyanthi Suranjana Vidyaratne
3. Madam Mano Ramanathan
to be my Commissioners to inquire into and report on the following matters namely :
(a) Whether any persons resident in the Northern and Eastern Provinces during the period June 10, 1990 to May
19, 2009 have been abducted or have disappeared from their places of residence ;
(b) Evidence in proof of the fact that such persons have been abducted or have disappeared ;
(c) Who are those so abducted or have disappeared and their present whereabouts ;
(d) Cogent factors or evidence that would help form an idea about the person or persons responsible for the
said abduction or disappearances ;
(e) Legal action that could be instituted against the person or persons who are found to be responsible ;
(f) Measures that should be taken to ensure that there will be no recurrence of such acts in the future ;
(g) If there is any reasonable relief to be granted as an obligation on the part of the Government to the parents,
spouses and dependants of those alleged to have been so abducted or have disappeared ;
And I do hereby appoint you the said Maxwell Parakrama Paranagama Esquire, to be the Chairman of the said
Commission ;
And I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to hold all such inquiries and make all other
investigations, into the aforesaid matters as may appear necessary, and require you to transmit to me within six months from
the date of this warrant a report thereon under your hand, setting out the findings of your inquiries, and your recommendations
relating thereto.
And I do hereby direct such part of any inquiry relating to the aforesaid matters, as you may in your discretion
determine, shall not be held in public ;
And I do hereby require and direct all public officers, and other persons to whom you may apply for assistance or
information to render all such assistance and furnish all such information as may be properly rendered and furnished in that
behalf ;
And I do hereby declare that the provisions of Section 14 of the aforesaid Commissions of Inquiry Act shall apply
to the Commission.
Given at Colombo under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 12th day of August, Two
Thousand and Thirteen.
By Order of His Excellency,
L
ALITH WEERATUNGA,
Secretary to the President.
08 - 1021
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.