

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1688$5 - 2011 ckjdß 11 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2011'01'11
No. 1688/5 - TUESDAY ,   JANUARY  11,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
ANNOUNCEMENT  OF  DECLARATION  OF  AREAS  AND  CONSTITUTION  OF  RENT  BOARDS  UNDER  THE
RENT  ACT  WITHIN  THE  CENTRAL  PROVINCE
I, Bandula S.B. Yalegama, Minister of Road Development, Power & Energy, Housing & Construction do hereby declare the
following orders for the operation and application of the provisions in the Rent Act, No. 07 of 1972 as amended from time to
time(hereinafter referred to as the Act) read with the Provincial Council (consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 within
the Central Province :–
1. (i) I do hereby declare that by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 45 of the Act, the powers vested
in me under sub-section 2(1) ( b) and 38(1) of the Act shall be carried out as per order 1.2 in view of  the
difficulty to constitute and maintain respective Rent Boards for each area declared under the Act and the areas
to be declared; the difficulty to exclude areas mentioned above (i) from the application of  the Act as there are
reasonable number of tenants in such areas; and non availability of provisions in the Act to remove above
difficulties mentioned in (ii) & (iii) above.
(ii) I do hereby declare that, by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 2(1 )(b), of the Act, the Act shall
be in operation in areas specified under column one of the Schedule hereto. Further  under section 38(1) of the
Act, three number of Rent Boards shall be constituted for the areas declared under 1.2.(a) as specified under
column two of the schedule hereto.
            2.           This order shall come in to operation on the date of publicatian in this Extraordinary Gazette.
Repeal and Transitional Provisions
            3. (i) “The Notice to Amalgamate the Administrative Areas of  the Rent Boards in Central Province”  published
under part IV (A) of  Provincial Council Notifications of the Extraordinary Gazette,  No. 1294/29 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 25th June, 2003 is hereby repealed ;
 (ii)     Notwithstanding the repeal of the notice to amalgamate the administrative areas of the Rent Board in  Central
          Province mentioned under 3 (1 ) –
(a) every order or decision made by any Rent Board under said notice in relation to any premises shall
be deemed to be an order or decision made by the existing Rent Board under corresponding
Provisions of this notice and shall have effect accordingly.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2011
2A
(b) expect Gampola Rent Board each Rent Board constituted under the said notice shall continue to
hold office and shall deemed to be a Rent Board under this notice and the members thereof shall
hold their offices until fresh appointments are made.
(c) all proceedings which are ending on the day immediately proceeding the date of commencement of
this notice before any Rent Board under that notice, shall be heard and continued before existing
Rent Board in all respects as through that notice had not been repealed.
(d) if any requirement made, certificate issued, payment made, notice, determination, direction or
approval given, application made or thing done under that notice shall, if in force on the day
immediately proceeding the date of commencement of this notice continue in force and shall sofar
as it could have been made, issued, given or done under this notice, have effect as if made, issued,
given or done under the corresponding provisions of this notice.
4. The notice of “Announcement of Combing and Confirming Housing Rent Boards Authority Area in the Cental
Province Provincial Council” published under Part  IV (A) of Provincial Council Notifications of the
Extraordinary Gazette, No. 1665/28 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 06
th August, 2010
is hereby repealed.
SCHEDULE
Column One Column Two
Serial No. Authority Area Rent Board
(i) Kandy Municipal Council area Kandy Rent Board(for authority areas
 from Serial No. (i  to  xxii)
(ii) Gampola Urban Council area
(iii) Nawalapitiya Urban Council area
(iv) Kadugannawa Urban Council area
(v) Wattegama Urban Council area
(vi) Harispattuwa Pradeshiya Sabha area
(vii) Akurana Pradeshiya Sabha area
(viii) Pasbage Pradeshiya Sabha area
(ix) Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha area
(x) Panwila Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xi) Pathahewaheta Pradehsiya Sabha area
(xii) Poojapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xiii) Gangawata Korale Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xiv) Ganga Ihala Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xv) Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xvi) Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xvii) Kundasale Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xviii) Medadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xix) Yat inuwara Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xx) Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxi) Thumpane Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxii) Udadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxiii) Matale Municipal Council Matale Rent Board (for authority
 areas from Serial No. xxii to xxxiv)
(xxiv) Matale Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxv) Ambanganga Korale Pradeshiya Sabha area

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2011
(xxvi) Ukuwela Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxvii) Y atawatte Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxviii) Raththota Pradeshiya Sabha Area
(xxix) Naula Pradeshiya Sabha area Matale Rent Board (for authority
(xxx) Dambulla Pradeshiya Sabha area  areas from Serial No. xxii to xxxiv)
(xxxi) Pallepola Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxxii) Galewela Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxxiii) Laggala Pallegama Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxxiv) W ilgamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxxv) Nuwara Eliya Municipal Council area Nuwara Eliya Rent Board (for authority
 areas from Serial No. (xxxv to xlii)
(xxxvi) Hatton Dickoya Urban Council area
(xxxvii) T alawakele- Lindula Urban Council area
(xxxviii) Nuwara Eliya Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xxxix) Kotmale Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xl) W alapane Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xli) Hanguranketha Pradeshiya Sabha area
(xlii) Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha area
BANDULA S.B. YALEGAMA,
Minister of Road Development,
Power & Energy, Housing & Construction.
Ministry of Road Development,
 Power & Energy, Housing & Construction Central Province,
Yatinuwara Veediya,
Kandy.
29th December, 2010.
01-532
SCHEDULE (Contd.)
Column One Column Two
Serial No. Authority Area Rent Board
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.