

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1241
1241
wxl 1"921 - 2015 cqks ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'06'26
No. 1,921 – FRIDAY , JUNE 26, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1244
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1248
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th July, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd July,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,920 of 19.06.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1242
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1243
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1244
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th of July, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
10th June, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Kurunegala Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of WeudawilliHathpattuwa General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Kurunegala
Mahagalbada Megoda North
Koralaya  Division
06–750
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1245
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th of July, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
10th June, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Galle Fourgravets Post of Medical Registrar of Births D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths of Galle Town North General, District Secretariat,
Division Galle
Galle Neluwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Hinidum Pattu Division and Births General, District Secretariat,
and Deaths of Happitiya Division Galle
06–751
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1246
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th of July, 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
10th of June, 2015.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Colombo Post of Registrar of Marriages District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
(General) of Colombo Division in General, District Secretariat,
St. Sebastian Area Colombo 05
06–823
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th of July, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
10th of June, 2015.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1247
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Negombo Post of Registrar of Births and D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Negombo Town General, District Secretariat,
(Hospital) Div ision Gampaha
06–824
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
JAFFNA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th of July, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
05th June, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Jaffna V elanai Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional Registrar
of Pungudutivu Division and General, District Secretariat,  Jaffna
Marriages (General) of Velanai
Divisional Secretary's Division
06–627

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1248
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th Jul y, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
05th June, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Bingiriya Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
of Karadapattu Korale Area, General, District Secretariat,
Katugampala Hathpattuwa Division Kurunegala
06–626
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS,  SRI  LANKA
Primary Semi - skilled Service Category - Recruitment for
the Post of Electrician Grade III - 2015
APPLICATIONS are being called from qualified Sri Lankan citizens
for recruitment to the Post of Electrician Grade III in Primary
Semi-skilled Service Category of the Department of Examinations,
Sri Lanka.
01. Selections will be made to the vacancies of the Post of
Electrician, Grade III as per the results obtained at a structured
interview conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations
only in Colombo from a qualified set of candidates.
02. Salary Scale. – As per the Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(IV) dated 24.08.2007, the monthly salary scale of the
Post of Electrician Grade III, II, I and Special Grade is as follows :
Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,600
to exceed Rs. 13,510 promotion to Grade II, to exceed Rs. 14,900
promotion to Grade I,
to exceed Rs. 16,560 promotion to Special Grade are necessary.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1249
03. Service conditions.– This post is permanent and pensionable.
Relevant contributions shall be made to Widows’/Widowers’ and
Orphans’ Pension Scheme. This post is limited to the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka only, However selected candidates can be
appointed to serve in any part of the island under the department.
The candidates recruited to Grade III of this service category thorugh
the structured interview, will be subjected to a probationary period
of three years.
04. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are required for
recruitment to the post of Electrician Grade III.
(a) Shall be a Sri Lankan citizen,
(b) Shall be of excellent character,
(c) Shall not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age as at the closing date of application. (Thus
candidates who fulfill the age requirement are whose
birthday is on or before 24.07.1997 and on or after
24.07.1970 only).
(d) The following Educational Qualifications shall be
completed.
Educational Qualifications.– Shall have passed G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings in 06
subjects at least with two credits.
(e) Professional Qualifications.– Shall have obtained level
two of National V ocational Qualification (N. V . Q.) in the
respective field relevant to the post determined by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
(f) Experience .– Experiencein the relevant field will be
considered as a special qualification.
(g) Physical fitness. – Each candidate shall have adequate
physical and mental fitness to carry out duties of the
post and to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
* All candidates must complete all required qualifications
relevant to the post on or before 24.07.2015.
05. Examination Procedure .– This procedure consists of a
structured interview and this will be held in Sinhala, Tmail and English
media and the applied medium could not be changed later :
Main headings of awarding Maximum marks
marks awarded
(i) Additional Educational Qualifications 40
(ii) Additional Professional Qualifications 45
(iii) Experience 10
(iv) Personality 05
Total marks 100
Within the boundary of maximum marks allocated for main
headings in the above table, Commissioner General of Examinations
will approve a detailed marking scheme to award such marks. Existing
vacancies will be filled considering the order of highest marks obtained
at the structured interview by the candidates.
06. Penalties for providing false information .– Accurate
information shall be given with utmost care, when perfecting the
application. If it is found that a certain candidate is ineligible as per
the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature is
liable to be cancelled at any stage, prior to, during or after the
structured interview. When it appears that a certain candidate has
submitted false information he/she can be dismissed from the public
service at any time.
07. Examination Fee.– The examination fee is Rs. 250. This fee
can be paid only to a post office/sub post office in the island under
the Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations on or before 24.07.2015. The receipt issued in this
regard shall be affixed on the relevant cage in the application form, so
that it can't be detached. (Shall retain a photocopy of the receipt for
your own future benefit). The examination fee will not be refunded
in any case and money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
08. Applications must be prepared using A4 (21cm x 29cm)
(normal half sheet) size paper in such a way that :
(a) Paragraph numbers 1 to 3 appear on the first page,
(b) Paragraph numbers 4 to 8 appear on the second page,
(c) Paragraph, numbers 9 to 11 appear on the third page and
the rest of paragraphs on other pages,
(d) When preparing the application, it is necessayr to indicate
the name of the examination as the heading in English
too, in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in
addition to Tamil in Tamil applications.
* The applications that do not comply with the specimen
or that have not been completed properly and incomplete
applications will be rejected without notice. Candidates
shall bear the loss incurred due to incomplete
applications. It will be useful to retain a photocopy of
the application and candidate shall ensure whether the
perfected application is in compliance with the specimen
form appeared in the Gazette notification, as otherwise,
the application may be rejected.
8.1 Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to appear for the structured interview
for all candidates who are in the age limit mentioned in
the notification and who have forwarded the accurately
completed applications with the receipt subsequent to
paying the due examination fees on or before the date of
submission of such applicaiton. Issuance of an admission
card to a candidate for the structured interview does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
required qualifications for this post. When candidates’
qualifications are being checked after calling them for the

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1250
interview as per the Gazette notification, their
candidature will be cancelled in case it reveals that they
have not got the required qualifications.
8.2 “Structured interview to be recruited to the post of
Electrician Grade III - 2015” shall be mentioned on the
top left hand corner of the envelope in which the
application is enclosed.
8.3 Candidate’s signature shall be attested on the application
as well as on the admission card for the structured
interview by one of the following officers; in case the
candidate is applying through a certain institution, by
the respective Department Head or by an officer
authorized by such head of the department and others
can get theirs attested by a Principal of a government
school, Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths,
Notary Public, Grama Niladhari in the division, Lawyer,
Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an officer in
the police service holding a Gazetted post or a permanent
staff grade officer in the Public or Provincial Public
Service who receives an annual consolidated salary of
Rs. 240,260 or more.
8.4 The closing date for the application is 24.07.2015 duly
perfected applications shall be sent by registered post
on or before that date to the following address :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
9. Appearing for the structured interview.– Once the admission
cards are issued, a press notice informing such issuance will be
published by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Candidates
who do not receive their admission cards, even after 2 or 3 days of
such advertisement shall notify the Department of Examinations, Sri
Lanka in the manner specified in the advertisement. When notifying
so, such candidates shall mention the name of the structured interview,
full name, address and national identity card number and in case of
candidates outside Colombo, it is advisable to fax your letter of
request providing the above information with a fax number to which
the copy of the admission card for the structured interview shall be
faxed. Further it will be advantageous to keep in hand the copies of
the application form and the payment receipt, with the receipt of
registration kept at your possession to prove your particulars.
10. A candidate will be required to prove his identity to the
satisfaction of the structured interview board by providing either of
the following documents :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport.
11. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the relevant qualifications
to appear for the structured interview. Candidates of the structured
interivew are bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the structured
interview and they will be liable to any punishment imposed by him
for breach of such rules.
12. Commissioner General of Examinations reserves the right to
decide any matter not provided in this notificaiton. All candidates
are bound to comply with the general examination rules and
regulations mentione din this Gazette.
W. M. N. J. P
USHPAKUMARA,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla,
June, 2015.
wdo¾Y whÿïm;%h
Y%S ,xld úNd. fomd¾;fïka;=j
m%d:ñl w¾O Ys,amSh fiajd .Kh - úÿ,s ld¾ñl III fY%a‚fha
;k;=rg n|jd .ekSfï jHqy.; iïuqL mÍlaIKh - 2015
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS, SRI LANKA
PRIMARY SEMI-SKILLED SERVICE CATEGORY - STRUCTURED INTERVIEW FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF ELECTRICIAN GRADE III - 2015
(For office use)
(Indicate clearly the correct symbol/number in the cage provided)
Language medium to appear for the structured interview :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1 Full Name (In English capital letters) :–––––––––––.
(Ex. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA
GUNAWARDHANA)
1.2 Last Name at first with initials at the end (In English capital
letters) :–––––––––––.
(Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA H. M. S. K.)
1.3 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1251
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.2 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to w hich the admission card shall be sent :––––––.
(In English capital letters)
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as on 24.07.2015 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Telephone Number :
04. Educational Qualifications :
Details of the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
05. Professional Qualifications :
Year Tehnical Institution NVQ
Course followed Level
06. Other Educational and Professional Qualifications :–––––––––.
07. Experience in the relevant field :–––––––––––.
08. Have you ever been convicted by a court of law ? :–––––––––.
(Indicate  mark in the relevant cage). (In case “Yes” give
particulars)
Yes N o
09. Details of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee :
(i) Office of payment :–––––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here so as not to be detached.
10. Certificate of the applicant :
(a) I solemnly declare that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and correct to the best of my
knoweldge. I agree to bear the loss that could be incurred due
to unfilled and/or inaccurately filled sections in the
application. Further I declare that all sections herein are
perfected accurately.
(b) I am aware that I will be liable to be disqualified prior to the
appointment and to be dismissed subsequent to receiving
the appointment in case any information provided by me
are proved to be false.
(c) Morecover I declare that I will abide by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on conducting the structured interivew.
(d) I will not alter any information provided herein later.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11. Attesting the signature of the Applicant :
I Certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Ms .......................... is
known to me personally, he/she placed his/her signature before me
on ......................., he/she has paid the relevant examination fee and
that he/she has pasted the receipt on this application.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official frank)
12. The certificate of the Department Head : (Only for employees
serving at Public/Provincial Public Sector/State
Corporations) :
The application of Mr./Mrs./Ms ............................. serving at
this Ministry/Department/Institution as a/an ......................... is

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1252
recommended and forwarded herewith and he/she can/cannot be
released from the service at this institution if he/she is selected for
the post concerned.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Department Head.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official frank)
06-829
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
The Examination held once in five years for the Public
Officers receiving incentives for obtaining Language
Proficiency in more than One Official Language - 2015
IN terms of Circular No. 03/2007 dated 09.02.2007 issued by the
Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
the payment of incentives to the Public Officers who obtain
proficiency in more than one official language has been approved.
Accordingly, an incentive paid only once and a monthly allowance
equal to a salary increment not applicable to pension has been
approved.
02. Officers who are entitled to the above privilege are required to
sit for an examination held once in five (05) years by the Department
of Official Languages.
03. Accordingly, a Language Proficiency Examination for officers
who have received or are receiving the above privilege is scheduled to
be conducted in the month of September 2015 by the Department of
Official Languages.
04. Applications are hereby invited for the above examination.
05. The relevant model application form can be downloaded from
the Department website www.languagesdept.gov.lk. Accordingly,
the application should be prepared on an A4 size paper using both
sides of the sheet to have Section 01 to 09 on the first page and the
rest on the second page and the application should be clearly filled in
candidate's own handwriting. The application duly perfected in
pursuance of the above instructions and which carries certification
of the Head of Institution and also his/her official seal should be sent
under registered cover to reach the address "Commissioner of Official
Languages, Department of Official Languages, "Bhasha Mandiraya",
No. 341/7, Kotte Road, Rajagiriya" on or before 27.07.2015. The
phrase "The Examination held once in five years" should be mentioned
in the top left hand corner of the envelope in which the application
is enclosed.
06. Each candidate applying for the examination should pay the
relevant examination fee as follows :
* Level I - Rs. 1,000
* Level II - Rs. 700
* Level III - Rs. 500
The examination fee should be paid at any District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat in the island to be credited to the Revenue
Head "20.03.99.00 - Other Revenue" and the receipt obtained for
such payment should be firmly pasted in the relevant place of the
application. (It is advisable for the candidate to retain a photocopy
of the receipt).
07. Applications which do not conform to the model application
form, contradictory to instructions, incomplete, not including the
receipt for the payment made or those received after the closing date
for applications are liable to be rejected without any intimation.
08. The decision of the Commissioner of Official Languages on
all matters in respect of this examination shall be final. Under no
circumstances shall the date, time and center for the examination be
changed. Further, re-scrutiny of results shall not be undertaken.
09. In the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy between
Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
W. A. J
AYAWICKRAMA, (Attorney-at-Law)
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages.
"Bhasha Mandiraya",
No. 341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya,
12th June, 2015.
DEPARTMENT OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
T
HE EXAMINATION CONDUCTED ONCE IN FIVE YEARS FOR THE PUBLIC
OFFICERS RECEIVING THE INCENTIVES FOR OBTAINING THE LANGUAGE
PROFICIENCY IN MORE THAN ONE OFFICIAL LANGUAGE - 2015
District :
(Mention the district of your service station)
The language for which the incentive is obtained :
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
Level
Level 1 - 1 Language and Level should be correctly
Level 2 - 2 menti oned. No changes will be made
Level 3 - 3 thereafter.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1253
01. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
Eg. : GAMINI R. A. (Ven./Mr./Mrs./Miss)
02. Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. Applicant's Name in full (in Sinhala or Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(Eg. : RANATUNGA ARACHCHIGE GAMINI)
04. Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) (The admission will be posted to this
address)
05. NIC Number :
06. Contact Number :
07. The service into which you belong :––––––––––––.
(Central Public Service/Provincial Public Service)
08. The post for which language incentive is obtained :–––––––––.
09. Date of entitlement to the language incentive :––––––––––––.
10. (i) Date on which you sit the Official Language Proficiency
Written Test :––––––––––––.
(ii) Date on which you sit the Oral Test :––––––––––––.
(iii) Valid date of Official Language Proficiency Examination
(As mentioned in the results sheet) :––––––––––––.
(iv) Index Number :––––––––––––.
( A copy of the results sheet certified by Head of the
Institute should be attached)
11. Examination fee : Rs. ...................... Office at which the payment
Made :––––––––––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
Paste the receipt here
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and correct and
I declare that I shall consider the decision of Commissioner of Official
Languages to be conclusive in respect of any matter relating to this
examination and shall abide by rules of the examination and that I
have read and understood all the conditions mentioned in the Gazette
Notification with respect to the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
(Before the Head of the Institution)
Date :––––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Institution
I certify that the above applicant serves in my office and that the
particulars containing in the heading s1 to 11 are true and correct. I
further certify that the above officer actively contributes to the
official duties for the effective implementation of the Official
Languages Policy (drafting letters/translation work)/Interpretations/
Public relations, etc.). In the language for which he/she is receiving
incentive and I certify that he/she placed his/her signature in my
presence.
––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Official Stamp :––––––––––––.
06–828
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
The Oral Test (2015) for Officers in Public Service, State
Corporations, Statutory Bodies, Government Banks and
fully Government-owned Companies who have passed
Second Language Sinhala/Tamil at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination (as per PA Circular No. 01/2014 and
Management Services Circular No. 04/2014)
IN terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and
Management Services Circular No. 04/2014 , the officers who pass
Sinhala (Subject Code 21 or 64) or Tamil (Subject Code 22 or 65) at
the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination conducted by the Department of
examinations, Sri Lanka are exempted from the Written Examination
for the Official Language Proficiency and are required to sit an Oral
Test conducted by the Department of Official Languages.
02. Applications are hereby invited for the above Oral Test
scheduled to be held in September 2015. The following persons shall
be eligible to apply :
* Officers recruited/appointed to Public Service/Provincial
Public Service on or after 01.07.2007 on Open/Limited
basis or on the basis of merit, as per PA Circular No. 01/
2014 ;
and
* Officers in state corporations, statutory bodies,
government banks and fully government-owned
companies, as per Management Services Circular No.
04/2014.
03. A model application form is given at the end of this notification
and the same is available on the departmental website

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1254
www.languagesdept.gov.lk. Accordingly, the application should be
prepared on an A4 size paper using both sides of the sheet to have
Section 01 to 07 on the first page and the rest on the second page and
the application should be clearly filled in candidate's own handwriting.
The language and the level of proficiency applied for should be
correctly mentioned and no changes will be allowed later . Only the
level of proficiency applicable to the candidate's service or post should
be applied. A copy of the results sheet of the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination,
certified by the Head of Institution should be sent along with the
application.
04. Each candidate applying for the examination should pay the
relevant examination fee as follows :
* Level I - Rs. 1,000
* Level II - Rs. 700
* Level III - Rs. 500
* Level IV - Rs. 300
The examination fee should be paid at any District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat in the island to be credited to the Revenue
Head "20.03.99.00 - Other Revenue" and the receipt obtained for
such payment should be firmly pasted in the relevant place of the
application. (It is advisable for the candidate to retain a photocopy
of the receipt).
05. The application duly perfected in pursuance of the above
instructions and which carries certification of the Head of Institution
and also his/her official seal should be sent under registered cover to
reach the address "Commissioner of Official Languages, Department
of Official Languages, "Basha Mandiraya", No. 341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya" on or before 27.07.2015. The phrase "G . C. E.(O/L) -
Oral Test 2015 (Level ..........)" should be mentioned in the top left-
hand corner of the envelope in which the applicaiton is enclosed.
06. Persons who applied for the Oral Test previously but were
rejected and who didn't sit the Oral Test or those who failed in the
Oral Test should apply for this test after paying again the relevant
examination fee.
07. Applications which do not conform to the model application
form, contradictory to instructions, incomplete, not including the
receipt for the payment made, not including a copy of the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination results sheet certified by the Head of Institution
to be a true copy or those received after the closing date for
applications are liable to be rejected without any intimation and no
appeals in this respect shall be entertained.
08. In the event that the number of candidates from a particular
district is insufficient to establish an examination center, such
candidates will be directed to a nearly examination centre.
09. Under no circumstances shall the date, time and center for the
Oral Test be changed. Further, re-scrutiny of results shall not be
undertaken.
10. The decision of the Commissioner of Official Languages on
all matters in respect of this test shall be final.
11. In the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy between
Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
W. A. J
AYAWICKRAMA, (Attorney-at-Law)
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages.
"Bhasha Mandiraya",
No. 341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya,
11th June, 2015.
DEPARTMENT OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
O
RAL TEST - 2015 SINHALA/TAMIL (LEVEL I, II, III, IV) FOR OFFICERS
IN PUBLIC SERVICE/PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE/STATE CORPORA TIONS
AND STATUTORY BODIES WHO HA VE PASSED SECOND LANGUAGE AT
G . C. E. (O/L) EXAMINATION
For office use only
.............................
District :
(Mention the district applied for)
Designation/name of service :
Service to which the post belongs :
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Central Government Public Service - 1
Provincial Public Service - 2
Corporations and Statutory Bodies - 3
Language for the oral test :
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
Level applied for (Write the relevant number in the cage)
Level I - 1 Level III - 3
Level II - 2 Level IV - 4
01. Name of the applicant with initials at the end :––––––––––––.
(Eg. : SAMARASINGHE, S. A. S. K.)
(In English Block Capitals)
02. Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
03. Applicant's name in full (In Sinhala or Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(Eg. : Samarasinghe Arachchige Saman Kumara Samarasinghe)
04. Official address :––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
05. Permanent address (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
(Admission and result sheet will be posted to this address)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1255
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Telephone No. :
08. Date of appointment to the post for which official languages
proficiency is required :––––––––––––.
09. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(A copy of the results sheet certified by Head of the Institute
should be attached)
9.1 Index No. :––––––––––––.
9.2 Language and Subject Code :––––––––––––.
9.3 Year :––––––––––––.
10. Examination fee : Rs. :––––––––––––.
Office at which payment made :––––––––––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
Paste here the receipt obtained for the payment
of examination fee
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and correct and
I haven't applied for any other level in respect of this language and,
I further declare that I shall consider the decision of Commissioner of
Official Languages to be conclusive in respect of any matter relating
to this examination and shall abide by rules of the examination and I
have read and understood all the conditions mentioned in the Gazette
Notification with respect to the oral test.
–––––––––––––,
Signature.
(Before the Head of the Department)
Date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Institution
I hereby certify that the above mentioned applicant serves in this
office and, that the particulars in paragraphs 1 to 10 in this application
are true and, that he/she is required to achieve Official Languages
Proficiency within 05 years as per Public Administration Circular
01/2014 or Management Circular 04/2014 and, that the receipt
obtained for the payment of due examination fee attached herewith
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on
...........................
––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Name :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Official Stamp :––––––––––––.
06–827
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Candidates for following the Post Graduate
Diploma in Education (Internal) Full Time Course in the
Academic Year - 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited for following the Post Graduate
Diploma in Education (Internal) One Year Full Time Course for the
Academic Year 2016.
02. The course of study will be conducted in Colombo, Peradeniya
and Jaffna Universities.
03. Language medium/media in which the course is scheduled to
be conducted at each university have been indicated below and
candidates who wish to enroll for the course can send their applications
only in one language medium :
1. University of Colombo - Sinhala and Tamil Media
2. University of Peradeniya - Sinhala Medium
3. University of Jaffna - Tamil Medium
04. Every candidate should substantiate that he/she fulfilled the
following qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should not be more than 50 years of age as at 24.07.2015.
(iii) Should be physically and mentally fit and should have a
good moral character,
(iv) Sho uld be a graduate in a recognized university,
(v) Should serve in a permanent post related to the following
services :
(a) * Sri Lanka Teachers' Service
* Sri Lanka Private School Teachers' Service
* Sri Lanka Parivenacharya Service
(b) Sri Lanka Principals' Service
(c) Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service
(d) Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service
(vi) Should have completed a service for a period of one year
as a Graduate as at 24.07.2015 in a post belongs to one
of the services mentioned in No. 4(v).
N. B.– 1. Teachers who have obtained appointments on the
qualification of the National Diploma in Teaching
will be qualified to apply for the course only if they
have completed the compulsory service of five years
as at 24.07.2015 as stipulated in the bond signed at
the time of appointment.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1256
2. Candidates who are on study leave and holding the
bond are eligible to apply only if they have
completed the compulsory service as at 24.07.2015
as stipulated in the bond or else have completed at
least five years' service out of the compulsory
service that should be completed by such applicants.
3. The graduates holding the Bachelor of Education
Degree cannot apply for the course.
05.1 Methodology of Selection :
(i) Every candidate should sit for a written examination.
(ii) A treble number of candidates than the candidates
expected to be selected to follow the course will be
called for the interview according to the order of marks
scored at the written examination.
(iii) Marks will be offered at the interview for the period of
service in the post related to the service of the candidate
as indicated in 4(v) of the Gazette Notification. 4 marks
will be offered for one year of service. The maximum
marks offered for the period of service will be 40.
Period of service of a candidate will be calculated with
effect from the date he/she assumed duties in the post.
(iv) The total marks obtained at the written examination
and the marks offered for the period of service will be
considered as the final marks and the selection for the
course will be made according to the order of such
marks.
(v) If differently abled candidates have applied for the
course, 1% of the number of candidates selected for
the course will be allocated for them.
(vi) The number of candidates selected for the course will
be determined as per the accommodation available at
each University.
05.2 Written Examination :
(i) The written examination for selecting candidates for
the course will be conducted in Colombo and Jaffna
universities by the Commissioner General of
Examinations in Sinhala and Tamil Languages.
(ii) Candidates can sit the written examination at the centre
they have applied for from the two examination centers
where the examinatin has been scheduled to be
conducted and in the langauge medium he/she applied
for. Examination centre which is applied will not be
changed.
(iii) Candidates should be adhered to the rules and
regulations declared by the Commissioner General of
Examination on the conduct of the examination.
(iv) Written examination will be consisted of two question
papers :
(a) General Knowledge :
Question paper on Current Affairs, General Knowledge,
Educational Information and Issues (Duration : 01
hour)
(b) Aptitude Test :
Question paper on Proficiency in Language,
Comprehension, Logic and Skills in Arithmetic
(Duration 01 hour 30 minutes)
05.3 Interview :
(i) Candidats should substantiate at the interview that
they are eligible to follow the course according to the
para 04 of the Gazette notification.
(ii) Candidats should submit to the interview board, the
documents that are required to substantiate their service
in related post/posts indicated in Para 4(v) of the Gazette
notification. Candidates should specially substantiate
the date of assuming duties in the post at the interview.
That will help the candidate to get the marks offered
for the period of service.
(iii) The teachers who apply for the course from Piriven
and government approved private schools should
submit at the itnerview a statement of declaration
certified by the Kruthyadhikari/Manager of the
Administration Board to the effect that :
(a) The teachers of Piriven and government approved
private schools will be released for the course ;
(b) Salaries will be paid to the teachers during the
period they are following the course ;
(c) The teacher will be re-deployed for the service at
the end of the course ;
(d) Another teacher will not be recruited to his/her
vacancy during the period of study of the relevant
teacher ;
(e
) The duties of the teacher will be distributed among
the approved cadre of teachers.
06. Method of submission of applications :
(i) Applications should be prepared using the both sides
of A4 papers in accordance with the given specimen
form.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1257
(ii) When applications are submitted for visually impaired/
hearing impaired candidates and the other differently
abled candidates, the term, "visually impaired/hearing
impaired and the other differently abled candidate"
should be mentioned in red at the top left hand corner
of the applications.
(iii) Payment of examination fees :
The receipt obtained subsequent to paying the
examination fee of Rs. 750 at the nearest post office
should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application.
Post Master General will be notified by the
Commissioner General of examinations to make
provisions to issue the receipt from all the post offices
with effect from 26.06.2015 to 24.07.2015.
(iv) Submission of Applications :
(a) The term, "Post Graduate Diploma in Education
(Internal) Full Time Course - 2016" should be
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the application.
(b) Applications should be sent by registered post to
reach the Commissioner General of examinations,
Department of Examinations, Evaluation and
Testing Service, Pelawatte, Battaramulla to receive
on or before 24.07.2015.
(c) A copy of the application should be handed over
to the personal file of the applicant through the
Head of the Institution. It will be helpful for the
candidate to obtain study leave in case he/she will
be selected for following the course.
(v) Time table and the admission cards will be sent to the
candidates by post and if any candidate does not receive
his admission card at least 07 day superior to the date
of the examination he/she should inform in that regard
to the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
along with the following information :
(a) Name of examination :–––––––––––.
(b) Candidate's name in full :–––––––––––.
(c) Address :–––––––––––.
(d) Post office to which the fees were paid and receipt
No. :–––––––––––.
(e) Date of posting the application :–––––––––––.
(f) Post office of posting the application and receipt
No. :–––––––––––.
(vi) Refunding of the examination fees or transferring the
same for any other examination will not be made under
any circumstances.
(vii) Incomplete applications will be rejected without any
notification.
(viii) Every candidate should substantiate his identity at the
written examination by a valid Identity Card.
(ix) Candidates are not allowed to change the university
after selecting them to follow the course in a particular
university.
(x) If it is revealed that a particular candidate has not
fulfilled the requirements stipulated in the Gazette
Notification even after the selection, the selection of
such candidate will be liable for cancellation.
07. Study Leave.– Full pay study leave will be granted for the
selected candidates to follow the course. Study leave for candidates
in Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Teacher
Educators' Service and Principals and Teachers serving in the National
Schools, Private Schools and Piriven should be approved by the
Secretary of the Ministry of Education and study leave for other
candidates should be approved by the Provincial Secretary of
Education.
08. Surety Bond.– Candidates who are selected for the course
should sign a surety bond with the Secretary to the Ministry of
Education/Provincial Secretary of Education that he/she will serve in
the Department for a period prescribed in terms of the rules and
regulations stipulated in the Establishments Code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka subsequent to completing the course
successfully.
09. In case any selected candidate is unable to complete the
course successfully and to obtain the Diploma Certificate within the
specified period owing to reasons that are controllable to the
candidate, the salaries and allowances paid to the candidate during
the period of study leave should be fully recovered by him/her.
10. If the work, conduct and attendance of the students are found
to be unsatisfactory during the period of following the course, they
will be removed from the course.
11. In the event of any inconsistency prevails between Sinhala
and Tamil or English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
U
PALI MARASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
26th of June, 2015.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1258
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR FOLLOWING THE POST GRADUATE DIPLOMA IN EDUCATION (INTERNAL) FULL TIME COURSE IN THE ACADEMIC YEAR - 2016
For office use
Medium applied for Examination center applied for University applied for
(Sinhala/Tamil) (Colombo/Jaffna) (Colombo/Jaffn a/Peradeniya)
01.
02.
01. (i) Name with initials in English block capitals (Surname first) Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
Example : Mr. Silva, A. B. C.
(ii) Name in full (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
02. (i) (a) Official Address (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
(b) Official Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(ii) (a) Private Address (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
(b) Private Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Location of School/Institution where the candidate is serving (In English block capitals) :
Province District Zone
(iv) Nature of the Institution (Government School/Private School/Pirivena/Other) :––––––––––––.
03. (i) Date of Birth : Year :––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 24.07.2015 : Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
(iii) Gender :––––––––––––.
04. Particulars regarding the Degree :
Degree Period of following Year of Date of Subjects of Nature of Institute / Degree
the course at the passing the validity of the Degree the pass University (Internal/
University degree the degree External)
(From......  To ...........)
05. (i) ( a) Date of recruitment to the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service :––––––––––––.
(b) Date of assuming duties in the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service :––––––––––––.
(c) Designation holding at present :––––––––––––.
(ii) (a) Date of recruitment to the Sri Lanka Principals' Service/Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service/Sri Lanka Education Administrative
Service :––––––––––––.
(b) Date of assuming duties in the Sri Lanka Principals' Service/Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service/Sri Lanka Education
Administrative Service :––––––––––––.
(iii) The full period of service on 24.07.2015 in the post belongs to Sri Lanka Teachers' Service/Sri Lanka Principals' Service/Sri Lanka
Teacher Educators' Service/Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service subsequent to obtaining the degree :––––––––––––.
(iv) The full period of service in the post belongs to Sri Lanka Teachers' Service/Sri Lanka Principals' Service/Sri Lanka Teacher
Educators' Service/Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service on 24.07.2015 :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1259
06. (i) Particulars of the professional training :
Institution where the course was followed  (Teachers' Course Duration of following the course at the
College, National College of Education or the other) (Subject area) Institution
From                                To
07. Particulars regarding the study leave obtained :
Reason for obtaining study leave Duration of the Bond Period ahead for the completion
From .................. To ...................... of the bond
Note.– Period of following the National Diploma in Teaching at a National College of Education will not be considered as a study
leave.
08. ( a) Whether any disciplinary action is pending against the candidate (Yes/No) :––––––––––––.
(b) If so, details in that regard :––––––––––––.
09. Affix the receipt obtained after making the Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
payment at a post office Date :––––––––––––.
Name of the Post/Sub Post Office :––––––––––––.
I certify that a sum of Rs. ......................... (Amount in figures) has been paid
to the post office/sub post office.
Signature of the candidate :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
10. Declaration made by the candidate :
I hereby certify that all the information furnished by me in this application are true and accurate and I am eligible to follow this
course under para 04 of the Gazette Notification dated 26.06.2015 and I will function in accordance with the rules and regulations for
candidates stipulated in the Examination Act and a valid receipt has been affixed to the application subsequent to the payment of the
prescribed fee for the Examination.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.
11. Recommendation relating to releasing the candidate from the Institute for following the course :
(Principal/President of NCOE/Kruthyadhikari/Manager of the Administrative Board or Head of Institution)
If the above candidate is selected for following the course, he/she can be/cannot be released considering the requirement of
following a V ocational Training Course.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official frank of Principal/Head of Institution.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1260
12. Recommendation of the Zonal Director of Education in relation to releasing the teacher for the course :
If the above candidate is selected for following the course, I do hereby recommend study leave for the teacher.
––––––––––––––––,
Zonal Director of Education.
(Signature and Official Frank)
Date :––––––––––––.
06–795
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH  AND  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE
Recruitment of Trainees for the Training in the Post of Public Health Midwife of Para Medical Service - 2015
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who have qualified G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in the years 2012, 2013, 2014 to recruit
as trainees to the below mentioned training course of the Para Medical Service of the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine.
Code T raining Course Period of T raining Medium in which the course should
No. be followed
01 Trainee Public Health Midwife 01 year and 06 months Sinhala, Tamil
(field training 6 months)
01. Merit list will be prepared according to the z-score obtained at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and eligible persons will be
selected as it to be 30% on all island merit and 70% on provincial merit. The number of trainees that could be recruited from these provinces
will be decided considering the number of vacancies exists in hospital and institutions which are belonged to the line Ministry and Provincial
Councils of the same province.
Since applications are called from those who have passed 3 subjects in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in any stream in several years
based on the z-score of the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination, the total number of trainees for the training will be selected as a percentage of eligible
applicants from the total number of eligible candidates in each of the subject streams in these years. If vacancies in the post you applied for,
will not exist in the province you request, the applicants who applied from these provinces will only be selected an all island merit.
02. This course is a full time course (on 5 week days and in the morning of Saturdays). Therefore, students who follow any full
time course in a university or under the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine or other government institution should not apply for
this. If someone is found to have done so, he/she will be dismissed and all expenses spent on his/her up to that day by the government will
be recovered. If a student who is following full time course in a university wish to apply so, he/she should take action as fol lows.
Applications of those who have registered for full time training course under the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine wi ll be
rejected.
2.1 If you have registered for a full time course of any university or other government institution in some day, you
should have get cancelled that registration by the date of recruitment to this course. Even if you have not attended
to the lectures or do not attend the lectures, being registered with a university you are considered as undergraduate
such applicants also should cancel their registration. You should possess written evidence in proof of that when
required.
2.2 If you have completed a degree of any university, the effective date of that degree should be a date prior to the date
of recruitment for the training :
N. B. : * You are hereby emphasized that no section of this Gazette means that even if all conditions above from 2.1
to 2.2 have been satisfied, you are compulsorily admitted to this course.
* You should be aware that you will not be eligible for this course if you have not obtained a sufficient z-score
or if you have not satisfied any condition mentioned herein, even if you have satisfied conditions above
from 2.1 to 2.2.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1261
* You  are further informed that if you have not completed the conditions mention from 2.1 to 2.2, you will
not be qualified for this course under any circumstances even if you have already fulfilled all the other
conditions mention in this, after obtaining an adequate z-score.
03. Educational qualifications and other special qualifications relevant to the recruitment to the training :
Code Training G. C. E. (O/L) Qualification G . C. E.  (A/L) Other qualification relevant to
No. Course Qualification the training course
01 Public Health Should have passed six subjects Should have passed in * Only the females could apply.
Midwife with at least credit pass for three subjects from * Height should be 4 feet and 10 inches
Sinhala Language, Tamil any of the subject or more than this.
Language, Mathematics, Science streams at the G . C. E. * All the applicants should be unmaried
and one other subject including (A/L) examination in and should not be married within the
English in not more than two one sitting in the years training period. Female students who
sittings at the G . C. E. (O/L) 2012, 2013, 2014 are attaching to the service temporarily
examination after giving the theoretical training
should not be entered into a marriage
until appointment are granted after
attaching to the formal training.
04. Other General Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age as at 24.07.2015. Applications are called from thsoe who
satisfy relevant qualificatins and who have passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination in the years 2012, 2013, 2014.
(b) Should serve at least 10 years in the post of Public Health Midwife which you are recruited after the training.
(c) Should be fit physically and mentally.
(d) Should have resided in the district from which he/she is applying for a period of continous 3 years immediately prior to
the closing date of application.
05. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form attached to this. Papers in the size of A4 should
be used for this. (Pages from section 1 to 10 (a) should appear on the first side of the page and section from 10(b) to 13 in
the Second page.
(b) Receipt obtained by paying the amount of Rs. 300 to the credit of the account of the Director General of Health Services
collection of examination fee No. 7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon, Thaprobane Branch should be affixed on the place'Receipt'
of the application so as not to be detached. (Obtain a copy of the receipt before affixed it).
(c) Signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/an officer in the
Sri Lanka Educational Adminsitrative service/an officer of Sri Lanka Accountancy Service/a principal of a government
school/a Justice of the peace/an Attorney-at-Law/or an officer who holds a permanent and pensionable post in the Public
Service and obtains a consolidated salary not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
(d) On the top left hand corner of the enveloep that the application is enclosed, it should be mentioned the words 'Recruitment
of Trainees for the Training of Public Heath Midwife of Para - Medical Service - 2015' and below that the province and
the district which you applied for should be mentioned. The applications should be sent by registered post to reach to
Director, (Admin.) 2, Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine, 'Suwasiripaya' No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa
Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before 24.07.2015.
06. Application of the employees of Public or semi - government institutions should be sent through the respective Head of Department
and also, you should be noted that this is an external recruitment.
07. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
08. Applications which receive after the closing date or which are incomplete or not complying with the specimen form will be
rejected without any notice.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1262
09. Only the applicants selected from thsoe who have fulfilled
the above qualifications based on a priority list prepared according
to the z-score will be called for an interview consisting officers of the
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine and a staff officer of
any other Ministry, Originals of the following documents should be
submitted at the interview by the applications.
(a) Certificate of Birth,
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) examination results sheer with the z-score
(a certified copy should also be attach to the application),
(c) Original results sheet of the G . C. E. (O/L) examination,
(d) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of persons or the valid passport or the driving
license,
(e) Certificate of residency issued by the Grama Niladhari
and countersigned by the Divisional Secretary in
confirmation of residency according to above 4d). (Grama
Niladhari Certificate).
(f) An affidavit declaring that the applicant is not following
full time course under the Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine or in a university or any other
institution.
(g) Formal affidavit signed by the Justice of Peace in order to
confirm the unmarried status.
10. Training Procedure :
(i) Applicants selected from those who were interviewed
will be admitted to the training schools to follow the
course. Courses will be conducted in Sinhala and Tamil
medium.
(ii) Trainees admitted to the training schools shall be subject
to the rules and regulations of the training schools and
any other order imposed by the Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine from time to time.
(iii) Training of the students who are failed by the relevant
examinations or those who are with unsatisfactory work
and conduct or those who are unable to be adapted with
the conditions of examinations and leaves relevant to
the training school admitted in within the training period,
may be terminated any time without granting any
compensation.
(iv) A monthly allowance of Rs. 12,360 will be paid to the
trainees during the priod of training.
(v) At the time he/she is admitted to the training school, he/
she should enter into an agreement and surety bond with
the Director General of Health Services, he/she will
complete the training successfully, not abandon the
training course and service in the relevant post in the
relevant province for a period of ten (10) years at least
if an appointment is granted after completing the said
training. If he/she resigns from the training (abandon
the training) or his/her training has to be terminated as
per above Section III or fails to serve in the post of
Public Health Midwife in Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine or Provincial Council for a period
of ten (10) years after appointment he/she should refund
the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine the
expenses borne by the government and the amount of
the surety Bond. If not, legal action will be taken to
recover the said amount as per the agreement.
11. Terms of Engagement.– Government is not bound to grant
permanent appointments at the end of the training. However, it may
be considered to appoint the candidates to the post of Public Health
Midwife (Class III) based on the conditions of the recruitment
procedure relevant to the training course they are recruited to and the
vacancies existing under the Ministry of Health and Indigenous
Medicine or in the province. Serving in the province to which the first
appointment is granted for a period of ten years from the date of first
appointment is compulsory.
It may be considered to grant appointments to the institutions where
vacancies are existing based on the merit list prepared according to
the results of the final written examination conducted at the end of
the course and taking into consideration the above 70% recruited at
the provincial level and the 30% recruited on the island wide merit
basis.
The Public Health Midwife related to the service of Para Medical
Service is entitled to the salary scale of Rs. 15,260 -180x6 -240x4 -
320x11 -  360x20 - Rs. 28,020 in terms of the Public Adminsitration
Circular No. 06/2006(IV) and salaries will be paid after placing on
the 1st salary step of Grade III.
12. Particulars regarding the educational and other qualifications
should be mentioned carefully and accurately in filling the application.
If the above said certificates were found to be false action will be
taken to refer the case to the Criminal Investigation Department in
order to take legal action and to cancel the appoinment and dismiss
from the training/post and disciplinary action will be taken and his/
her name will be entered into the blacklist which is an index of the
names of persons who will not be re-employed by the government.
Further, action will be taken to recover the allowance paid to him/her
during the period of training, expenses borne by the government and
the amount relevant to the surety bond.
13. Selected applicants should submit themselves to a medical
examination within the first month of the training to prove that they
are physically and mentally fit to follow the course concerned and to
serve in any part of the island and the applicants found not to be fit in
the medical examination will not be continue the course.
14. All applicants recruited as above will be subject to all rules
and regulations applicable to the Public Officer, procedural rules of
the Public Service Commission and provisions of the Establishment
Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Policies prescribed
by the Ministry of health and Indigenous Medicine, Financial
Regulations and other regulations and rules, regulations and orders
imposes by the government from time to time.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1263
15. In case any problem arises in respect of any matter regarding recruitment to the training which is covered or not covered by this
Gazette notification, decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine shall be final and in case of any
inconsistency between the texts in Sinhala, Tamil and English the text in Sinhala shall prevail.
16. Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities at the training schools for the applicants recruited to the training. If so provided
assessed house room rental, water and electricity bills will be charged.
17. There is no right to engage in trade union activities or serve in private during the period of this training and also if yo u are
appointed to the post concerned after the training you will not have any right to serve in private. If it was found that ou have acted so, legal
action will be taken.
Dr. D. M. R. B. DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansha Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
Dated 04th June, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT OF TRAINEES FOR THE PUBLIC HEALTH MIDWIFE OF PARA MEDICAL SERVICE - 2015
(Read the Gazette Notification thoroughly before fulfilling the application form)
01. ( a) Last name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) Ex. : A. B. C. SILV A
(b) Name in full (In English block letters) :––––––––––––.
(c) Name in full (In Sinhala/In Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No.  :––––––––––––.
03. Postal Address :
In Sinhala/In Tamil :––––––––––––.In English :––––––––––––.
04. ( a) Permanent Address :
In Sinhala/In Tamil :––––––––––––. In English :––––––––––––.
(b) Telephone Nos. Mobile :––––––––––––.
Permanent :––––––––––––.
(c) District of residence : In Sinhala/In Tamil :––––––––––––. In English :––––––––––––.
(d) Whether you are a permanent resident in this District :Yes/No :––––––––––––.
(e) If "Yes" since when :––––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth : Year :––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––––.
Age as at 24.07.2015 : Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
06. Height : Feet :––––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––––.
07. Gender : Male Female (Make "" in the relevant cage)
08. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka : Y es No (Make " " in the relevant cage)
09. Civil status : Married Single
10. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (attach a certified copy of the result sheet in which the Z-score, is mentioned)
District form which you appear for the Examination :––––––––––––.
Year in which you appear for the Examination :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Z-Score :––––––––––––.
No. Subject Grade
1
2
3
4

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2015
1264
(b) G . C. E. (O/L) Examination : (attach certified copy of the result sheet) :
First attempt Second attempts
No. Subject Year Year
Index No. Index No.
Result Result
1 Sinhala/Tamil Language
2 Mathematics
3 Science
4 English
5
6
7
8
9
10
All the subjects appeared for at the G . C. E. (O/L) examination should be mentioned in the above table.
11. Have you ever been convicted before a court of law : Yes No (Make " " in the relevant case)
If yes given particulars :––––––––––––.
12. Certification by the applicant :
(a) I hereby honesty declare that this application has been fulfilled by me after reading the paper notification thoroughly and understanding
the facts thereof and under the all conditions mentioned therein and I do not attend any fulltime course/programme in any other
programme and information mentioned in this application by me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am well aware that if my statement mentioned here or any other fact mentioned in the application revealed as untrue or false, I will
be liable to be dismissed by the service.
Attach here the receipt so as not to be detached.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
13. Attestation of the Applicant's signatory :
I hereby certify that Miss ....................................... who is submit this application is well known to me and signed before me on
................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature by the Attester (Official Frank).
Date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
06–604
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.