

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Buddhika Pathirana M. P. for Matara District
on 08th December, 2015
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 37]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on November 16, 2015)
CHILD REHABILITATION CENTRE
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Child Rehabilitation Centre

<!-- page 2 -->

1Child Rehabilitation Centre  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
Short title.
25
2—PL 009539—225 (12/2015)
Preamble.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CHILD REHABILITATION CENTRE
WHEREAS a Centre called and known as the "Child
Rehabilitation Centre" has heretofore been created for the
purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all objects
and matters connected with the said Centre according to the
rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Centre has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant the
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act, may be cited as the "Child Rehabilitation
Centre" (Incorporation) Act,   No.    of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of  the
"Child Rehabilitation Centre"  (hereinafter referred to as
"the Centre") or shall herafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
with perpectual succession, under the name and style of the
"Child Rehabilitation Centre"  (hereinafter referred to as the
"Corporation") and by that name may sue and be sued and
shall have full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be to:—
(a) to stop all forms of violence against children;
(b) to distribute all types of humanitarian assistance to
those subject to violence, refugees and children,
adults and the disabled and poor communities in
need of such assistance;
Incorporation
of the Child
Rehabilitation
Centre.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Child Rehabilitation Centre  (Incorporation)2
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to assist socio-economic development of rural
communities by maintaining activities in the fields
of fisheries, small enterprises and rural industries
through participatory development ;
(d) to uplift living standards of rural poor people by
income generating activities, self employment
opportunities and by making all kinds of attempts
needed for implementing skills development
programs;
(e) to be committed to protect health, educational,
gender rights of those affected by war and socially
backward groups and the rights of children and to
contribute to social development by implementing
programs required for their capacity development;
(f) to develop leadership skills of women while
empowering them; to form and maintain women's
groups and implement projects to make women
contribute to socio-economic development;
(g) to implement academic and training programs
relevant for environment conservation of rural areas;
(h) to take all possible steps for the peace,
understanding and co-existence of the oppressed
groups; and
(i) to do all such other acts, matters and things as are
incidental or conductive to the attainment of the
objectives of the corporation.
4.  (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any
other written law, the Corporation shall have the power to:–
(a) Open, operate and close bank accounts;
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Child Rehabilitation Centre  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) Borrow or raise money with or without security
and to receive or collect grants and donations;
(c) Invest any funds of the Corporation which are not
immediately required for the purpose of the
Corporation in a way that may be determined by
the Committee of Management;
(d) Purchase, acquire, give on lease or hire, sell or
otherwise obtain any movable or immovable
property which may be required for the purpose of
the Corporation and which may lawfully be
acquired for those purposes and to deal with or
dispose of the same, as it may deem expedient with
a view to promoting the objects of the  Corporation;
(e) Appoint, employ and dismiss the employees
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporaton and pay them such remuneration as
may be determined by the Corporation;
(f) Enter into, perform or  carry out, whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf of the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects of the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation; and
(g) Appoint advisory councils, committees or sub
committees as an when necessary to carry out any
functions of the Corporation as may be determined
by the Committee of Management.
(2) Provided that the Corporation shall obtain prior
written approval of the Department of External Resources
of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of
Finance in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or donations.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

Child Rehabilitation Centre  (Incorporation)4
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall be subject to the rules of the Corporation, be
administered by Committee of Management consisting of
not more than six office bearers inclusive of the Chairman/
Managing Director, Secretary, Treasurer and such number
of members as may be provided or in rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) No act or proceeding of the Committee of
Management shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only
of the existence of a vacancy among its members or any
defect on the election or nomination of a member thereof.
(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management of the Centre
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act and shall continue to hold office
until a new Committee of Management is elected in
accordance with the rules made under section 6 of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time at any general meeting by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of the members present to make rules not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any other
written law, on all or any of the following matters:–
(a) the classification of members and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) The election of the office – bearers, the resignation
from, vacation of or removal from office of office-
bearers, and their powers, conduct and duties;
(c) The election of the members of the Committee of
Managment and its powers, duties and conduct and
the terms of office of members of the Committee of
Management;
Rules of the
Corporation.
Management
of the Affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Child Rehabilitation Centre  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Register of
the Members
of the
Corporation.30
(d) The powers, duties, functions and conduct of the
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(e) The procedure to be observed at and the
summoning and holding of meetings of the
Committee of Managment, the times, places,
notices and agenda of such meetings, the quorum
thereof and the conduct of business thereat;
(f) The administration and management of the
property of the Corporation, the custody of its funds,
and the maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added or rescinded at a like meeting and in  like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. The Secretary of the Committee of Management shall
keep and maintain a register containing the names of  the
members of the Corporation.
8. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property both movable and immovable, which may become
vested in it by vitrtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 6, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributions
or fees on behalf of the Corporation shall be deposited to the
Corporation
may hold
movable and
immovable
property.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Child Rehabilitation Centre  (Incorporation)6
5
10
15
Debts due by
and payable
to the Centre.
Accounts and
Audits.
credit of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks as
the Committee of Management may determine.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund
or a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,
development or improvement of the property of the
Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation in
the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act.
(4) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Centre on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
11. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as membership
fees.
12. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporaton shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(3) In this section, "qualified auditor" means–
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
Limitation of
Liability of
Members.
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Child Rehabilitation Centre  (Incorporation)
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
of practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman/Managing Director or two other members of the
Corporation as may be decided by the Committee of
Management who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence and such signing shall be
indepedent of the signing of any person as a witness.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains any property whatsoever, after the satisfaction of all
debts and liabilities, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or transferred to  some other institution having objects similar
to those of the Corporation and which is or are by its rules
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such institution or institutions may be
determined by the members of the Committee of Management
on or before the dissolution of the Corporation.
15. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, any body politice or
corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Centre.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Child Rehabilitation Centre  (Incorporation)8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .