

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.12.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2006
1405
1405
¡â¤ 1 ,475 _ 2006 ï…Ìæ´Ú 08 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.12.08
No. 1,475 – FRIDAY ,  DECEMBER 08,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... -
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1407
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th December, 2006 should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 01st December, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.12.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2006
1406
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.12.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2006
1407
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
Admission for National Certificate of Information and Communication Technology (NCICT) Programs – Year 2007
NATIONAL Certificate in Information and Communication Technology (NCICT) is to be commenced on January 2007 at the following IT
Centers.
The total course fee is Rs. 5,000 and the duration of the course is six months (full time basis).
Course fee can be paid in installments.
2. Minimum Entry Qualifications :
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 02 Credit Passes for English and Mathematics in
not more than 2 sittings ;
or
(ii)Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 04 Credit Passes for any subject and 02 simple
Passes for English and Mathematics in not more than 2 sittings ;
or
(iii)Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 03 Credit Passes for any subject and 02 simple
Passes for English and Mathematics and also should have 02 simple passes for any subject at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in not more than 02 sittings.
Age Limit : Age should be not less than 16 years and not more than 25 years as at 25th of December, 2006.
3. Selection will be done through an aptitude test and an interview.
4. List of centers in which the NCICT Program will be conducted is given below. Please indicate the centre of your choice with
the relevant institution.
5. Applications prepared as per the specimen application form in A4 size paper (8.4"x11.8") should be sent on or before 25th
of December, 2006 to the address, which is indicated the Cage next to your choice. Please indicate the title “National Certificate in
Information & Communication Techonology” in the top left hand corner of the envelop.
Chairman.
V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka & IT Action Committee.
For office use only
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
N
ATIONAL  CERTIFICATE  IN INFORMA TION  AND  COMMUNICATION  TECHNOLOGY  (NCICT)
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM – JANUARY 2007
1. Name with initials :——.
(Write in Block Letters)
2. Name in full :——.
3. Permanent Address :——.
4. District :——.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.12.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2006
1408
5. Sex :——.
6. Date of Birth : Year :——, Month :——, Day :——.
7. Age as at 25th of December, 2006 : Years :——, Months :——, Days :——.
8. Number of the National identity Card and the Date issued :
No. :——. Date Issued :——.
9. Selected V ocational Training Centre :
Institution Centre
10. Education Qualifications :
I. G. C. E. (O/L) Results : Index No. : Y ear :
Subject Grade
II. G. C. E. (A/L) Results : Index No. : Y ear :
Subject Grade
I do hereby certify that the above information is correct and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I agree that if the information
submitted by me is false or inaccurate I am liable to be dismissed from my studentship.
....................,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :——.
CENTRES UNDER THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA (VTASL)
Centre Mailing Address
01 Rural Vocational Training Centre, Rattanapitiya Assistant Dir ector, Colombo District Office, Vocational Training
Authority of Sri Lanka, YMBA Building, Sarana Road, Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
02 Rural Vocational Training Centre, Talbot Town, Galle
03 District Vocational Training Centre, Elpitiya
04 National IT Centre, Baddegama Assistant Director, District Vocational Training Office, Talbot
05 Rural Vocational Training Centre,Thawalama Town, Galle
06 Rural Vocational Training Centre,Yakkalamulla
07 Rural Vocational Training Centre, Koggala
08 District Vocational Training Centre, Thalalla, KottegodaAssistant Director, District Vocational Training Centre, Thallala,
Kottegoda

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.12.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2006
1409
09 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Y .M.B.A. Building, KandyAssistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training Author-
ity
of  Sri Lanka, Gannoruwa Road, Peradeniya.
10 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Kotabogoda,
Kadugannawa
11 District V ocational Training Centre, Veyangoda Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, V ocational
Training Authority of Sri Lanka V eyangoda
12 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Thumbagoda, Balangoda Assistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training Authority
of Sri Lanka Panawenna, Kahawatta.
13 District V ocational Training Centre, Inamaluwa, Dambulla Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Inamaluwa,  Dambulla
14 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Minneriya
15 Rural Vocational Training Centre, Ella Road, Wellawaya Assistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training Authority
of Sri Lanka Niwasa Adikariya Road, Monaragala
16 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Iginiyagala Road,
Ampara  (Sinhala Medium) Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Main
17 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Karativu (Tamil Medium)Street, Nintavur
18 District V ocational Training Centre, Vandaramulai Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
(Tamil Medium) Vandaramulai, Batticaloa
19 District V ocational Training Centre, Ambegoda, BandarawelaAssistant Director, District Office Training Centre, V ocational
20 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Rock Hill, Badulla Training Authority of Sri Lanka, Abegoda, Bandarawela
21 District V ocational Training Centre, Mirijjawila, HambanthotaAssistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
22 Regional Information Technology Training Centre, Mirijjawila, Hambantota
Madamulana, Weeraketiya
23 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Rambewa, Mihintale
24 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Kantale Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Kandy
25 Regional IT Centre, Kandy Lake Road, Anuradhapura Lake Road, Anuradhapura
26 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Murunkan (Mannar)
27 District V ocational Training Centre, Ballapana, Galigamuwa Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Ballapana,
Galigamuwa
28 District V ocational Training Centre, Horana Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Wewala,
Horana
29 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Bingiriya Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Saragama,
Kurunegala
30 District V ocational Training Centre, Marawila Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Chilaw
Road, Marawila
31 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Kilinochchi District Secretary(GA), District Secretarial Office, Kilinochchi
32 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA”, North Central Province Office,
Medawachchiya 525/2, Maithreepala Senanayaka Mawatha,
33 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Polonnaruwa2nd Stage, Rathnayakapura, Anuradhapura.
34 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Jaffna Province Director, “NAITA”, Northern Province Office,
35 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, VaddukodaiNo. 7, Temple Road, Jaffna.
36 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, V avuniya
37 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, AETI, OrugodawatteDirector/Prinicpal, AETI, 07, Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Orugodawatte, Wellampitiya.
38 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Matara Province Director, “NAITA”, Southern Province Office,
39 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Elpitiya 27/A, Open University Avenue, Nupe, Matara.
Centre Mailing Address

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.12.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2006
1410
40 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Katugastota Province Director, “NAITA”, Central Province Office,
41 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Hatton 108/2B, Thiwankabodhi Mw., Kandy.
42 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Beruwala Province Director, “NAITA”, Western Province Office, 242,
Havelock Road, Colombo 5.
43 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Embilipitiya
44 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Mawanella Province Director, “NAITA”, Sabaragamuwa Province Office,
45 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Yatiyantota College Avenue, New Town, Ratnapura.
46 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Trincomalee Province Manager, “NAITA”, Eastern Province Office, No. 07,
G. S. Lane, Kalmunaikudi-13, Kalmunai
47 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Badulla Province Manager, “NAITA”, Uva Province Office,
No. 288, Kumarasinghe Mawatha, Off Passara Road, Badulla
48 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Madampe Province Manager, “NAITA”, Northern Western Province Office,
Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
49 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Galgamuwa
Centers under the Department of Technical Education & Training (DTET)
Centre Mailing Address
50 Technical College, Kegalle Principal, Technical College, Kachcheri Road, Kegalle.
51 Technical College, Maradana Principal, Technical College, Olcott Mawatha, Maradana, Colombo 10
52 Technical College, Aruppola Principal, Technical College, Aruppola, Kandy.
53 Technical College, Rathnapura Principal, Technical College, Farm Garden, Colombo Road,
Ratnapura.
54 Technical College, Galle Principal, Technical College, Kaluwella, Galle.
55 Technical College, Matara Principal, Technical College, Meddewatta, Matara.
Centers under the National Youth Services Council (NYSC)
Centre Mailing Address
56 V ocational Training Centre, National Youth Centre, MaharagamaO.I.C. National Youth Center, 65, High Level Road, Maharagama.
57 Rikillagaskada Youth Empowerment Centre, Nuwara-Eliya O.I.C. Rikillagaskada Training Centre, National Youth Services
Council, Rikillagaskada.
58 V ocational Training Centre, Kurunegala O.I.C. District Office, National Youth Services Council,
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
59 V ocational Training Centre, Makola Manager, Korea-Lanka Friendship Technical Training Institute,
National Youth Services Council, Sapugaskanda, Makola.
60 V ocational Training Centre, Naula O.I.C. Naula Trining Centre, National Youth Services Council,
Divisional Secretariat, Office, Arangala, Naula.
61 V ocational Training Centre, Chilaw O.I.C. District Office, National Youth Services Council, Ananda
Mawatha, Chilaw.
62 V ocational Training Centre, Moneragala O.I.C. Moneragala V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Praja Shalawa Road, Kachcheriya Junction,
Moneragala.
63 V ocational Training Centre, Kobawaka O.I.C. Kobawaka V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Kobawaka, Govinna.
64 V ocational Training Centre, Ratmalana O.I.C. Ratmalana Vocational Training Centre, Railway Station Road,
Ratmalana.
Centre Mailing Address

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.12.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2006
1411
Centre Mailing Address
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
Admission for National Diploma in Information and Communication Technology (NDICT) Programs – Year 2007
National Diploma in Information and Communication Technology (NDICT) is to be commenced on January 2007 at the
following IT Centers.
The total course fee is Rs. 12,000 and the duration of the course is One Year (full time basis).
Course fee can be paid in installments.
Centers under the Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka (VTASL)
Centre Mailing Address
01 National Information Technology Training Centre, Training Manager, National IT Centre, 354, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Narahenpita (Colombo) Commencement on July 2007 Narahenpita, Colombo 05.
02 National Information Technology Training Centre, BaddegamaO.I.C. National Information Technology Training Centre,
Makuragoda, Baddegama.
03 Regional Information Technology Training Centre, BatticaloaAssistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Vandaramulai, Batticaloa.
04 Regional Information Technology Training Centre, Kegalle Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Ballapana, Galigamuwa.
05 Regional Information Technology Training Centre, MedamulanaAssistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Mirijjewila, Hambanthota.
Centers under the National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority  (NAITA)
Centre Mailing Address
06 Regional Information Technology Training Centre, Kandy. Province, Director “NAITA” Central Province Office, 108/2B,
Thivankabodhi Mawatha, Kandy.
07 Regional Information Technology Training Centre, KurunegalaProvince Manager, “NAITA” North Western Province
Office, Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
2. Minimum Entry Qualifications :
(1) Holder of NCICT
or
(2) Six passes in not more than two sittings with credits for English & Mathematics in GCE (O/L)
and
any full time six months computer certificate course, which should include following areas :
(1) Computer Basics (DOS, Windows, Principles of Networking, Hardware)
(2) Office Automation (Word Processing, Spread Sheets, Presentation software and Database software)
(3) Internet & WWW with HTML programming
(4) System Analysis & Design
Age Limit :
Age should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as at 25th December, 2006.
65 V ocational Training Centre, Dehiwala O.I.C. Dehiwala V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Palliya Dora Road, Kawdana, Dehiwala.
66 V ocational Training Centre, Akuressa O.I.C. Akuressa V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Thibbotuwawa, Akuressa.
12-343/1
B2  -B 079374

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.12.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2006
1412
(3) Selections will be done through an aptitude test and an interview.
(4) Applications prepared as per the specimen application form in A4 size paper (8.4' x 11.8") should be sent on or before 25th
December, 2006 to the address, which is indicated next to the centre of first preference. Please indicate the title “National
Diploma in Information & Communication Technology” in the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Chairman,
V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka & IT Action Committee.
20th November, 2006
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
National Diploma in Information and Communication Technology (NCICT)
Specimen Application Form – January 2007
For office use only
Name of the student
Centre at which NCICT/ any other six months computer course followed
Index No. of Final NCICT exam (if any)
Grade obtained (if any)
Final average (if any)
Mailing address & contact Telephone Number
Centre preference for NDICT :
1.
1. National IT Training Centre, Narahenpita (VTA)
2. National IT Training Centre, Baddegama (VTA)
3. Regional IT Training Centre, Kegalle (VTA) 2.
4. Regional IT Training Centre, Batticaloa (VTA)
5. Regional IT Training Centre, Madamulana (VTA)
6. Regional IT Training Centre, Kandy (NAITA) 3.
7. Regional IT Training Centre, Kurunegala (NAITA)
The information given above is true and correct.
....................,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :——.
12-343/2
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.