

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SRI LANKA-NIPPON EDUCATIONAL AND
CULTURAL CENTRE (INCORPORATION)
ACT, N O . 41 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 1st October, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.25 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 05, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and Cultural
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007
[Certified on 01st October, 2007]
L.D.—O. INC 05/2005.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  SRI LANKA -NIPPON  EDUCATIONAL  AND
CULTURAL  CENTRE
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Sri Lanka-
Nippon Educational and Cultural Centre” has heretofore been
established for the purpose of effectualy carrying out and
transacting all matters connected with the said association
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka – Nippon
Educational and Cultural Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41
of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act
such and so may persons as now are members of the Sri Lanka-
Nippon Educational and Cultural Centre (thereinafter referred
to as the “Centre”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Sri Lanka-Nippon
Educational and Cultural Centre” and by that name may sue
and be sued, with full power and authority to have and to use
a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote educational and cultural ties, mutual
understanding and co-operation between the people
of Sri Lanka and Japan ;
General objects
of the
Corporation.
Incorporation of
the Sri Lanka-
Nippon
Educational and
Cultural Centre.
Short title.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and Cultural
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007
(b) to assist Sri Lankans and Japanese to study each
other’s cultures, languages and any other languages,
to organize educational tours,  to provide hostel
facilities to those who participate in such tours
and to exchange educational and cultural
representatives ;
(c) to establish and maintain libraries and to purchase,
subscribe and publish books, newspapers,
periodicals and other publications which the
Corporation may consider desirable for the
promotion and advancement of its objects ;
(d) to establish and award scholarships, grants and
prizes to deserving Sri Lankan students and to assist
them in their spiritual, philosophical, cultural,
scientific and technical education ;
(e) to join and collaborate with other local and foreign
associations, societies or organizations with objects
similar to those of the Corporation ;
(f) to provide guidance and other assistance to Sri
Lankans travelling to Japan for educational and
cultural purposes ; and
(g) to promote, encourage and assist the artistic
creations, skills in sports and the technical
knowledge of Sri Lankan youth and children and to
organize and maintain work shops, schools and
institutions therefor.
4. (1) The administration and management of the affairs
of the Corporation shall subject to the rules of the Corporation,
made under section 6 be vested in a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of the
Director, Secretary and the Honorary Treasurer of the
Corporation and not less than eleven other members to be
elected in accordance with such rules.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and Cultural
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
subsection (1) of this section, the Venerable Udagama
Sumangala Thero shall be the first Director and the V enerable
Meegahatenne Chandrasiri Thero the first Secretary General
of the Corporation who shall hold office for life unless they
earlier resign from their offices.
(3) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall be the Board of Management of the Centre holding
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall, have the power—
 (a) to acquire, hold and develop any property movable
or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise ;
(b) to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of any such property ;
(c) to appoint, employ, remunerate, exercise
disciplinary control over and dismiss officers and
servants as may be necessary for the purposes of the
Corporation ;
(d) to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind
whether from local or foreign sources ;
(e) to establish branches of the Corporation in any
foreign country for the purpose of carrying out the
objects of the Corporation ;
(f) to open, operate and close bank accounts and to
borrow or raise money with the property of the
corporation as security or without such security for
the purposes of the Corporation ;
General Powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and Cultural
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007
(g) to invest money belonging to the Corporation in
such securities as may be determined by the Board ;
(h) to do all such other acts and things as are incidental
or conducive to the carrying out the objects of the
Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at a general meeting and by a majority of not less than
two thirds of the members present and voting to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the election, appointment or nomination of the
members of the Board and their powers and duties
and the terms of office ;
(b) the powers, duties and functions of the various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;
(c) the procedure to be observed at  summoning and
holding of meetings of the Board, the times, places,
notices and agendas of such meetings, the quorum
therefor and the conduct of business thereat ;
(d) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and
maintenance and audit of the account ; and
(e) generally the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the attainment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in the
like manner as a rule may be made under subsection (1).
(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under this section.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and Cultural
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007
7. (1) The corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift, bequest,
donation, subcription, fees or grants for and on account of
the Centre shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporation
in one or more banks as the Board of Management shall
determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund, any expenditure
incurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
8. (1) The financial year of the corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
“qualified auditor”.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation
hereby constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions
and contributions payable to the centre on that date shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
Debts due by or
payable to the
centre.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and Cultural
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007
How the seal of
the Corporation
is to be affixed.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Secretary General of the Corporation and it shall not
be affixed to any instrument whatsoever except in the presence
of the Secretary General and such other number of members
of the Board as may be provided for in the rules of the
Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
Corporate or of any other persons.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Lanka-Nippon Educational and Cultural
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 41 of 2007
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
  December each year in respect of the year following.