

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 09.03.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2218$50 - 2021 ud¾;= ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2021'03'09
No.  2218/50  - TUESDAY ,   MARCH    09,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G 33916 — 30 (03/2021)
MEDICAL  SERVICE  MINUTE  OF  SRI  LANKAN  HEALTH  SERVICE   - AMENDMENT   03
THE Medical Service Minute of Sri Lankan Health Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No.1883/17 dated 11th
October, 2014 as amended by the Gazettes Extraordinary No. 1996/46 dated 09th December, 2016 and No. 1981/45 dated 24th
August, 2016 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is amended as follows.
   By order of the Public Service Commission,
M. A. B. DAYA SENARATH,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
03rd  March, 2021.
7.2.(a) 4 Age: between 24 – 45 years
7.2.(b) 5 Age: between 24 – 45 years
10.1.2 Promotion to Grade I from Grade II

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 09.03.2021
2A
10.1.2.1 Promotion of Medical Officers having Postgraduate Degrees/ Diplomas
Qualifications to be fulfilled
I. Should have been confirmed in service
II. Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of six (06) years in Grade II of the service
category and earned six (06) salary increments within the prescribed period
III. Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment as per the provisions in Public Service Commis-
sion Circular No. 01/2020
IV . Should have successfully completed a postgraduate qualification mentioned in Appendix I or II of the Service
Minute
V. Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination as at the due date
VI. Should have acquired the proficiency in official languages within the prescribed period
10.1.2.2 Promotion of Medical Officers not having Postgraduate Degrees / Diplomas
Qualifications to be fulfilled
I. Should have been confirmed in service
II. Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of twelve (12) years in Grade II of the
service category and earned twelve (12) salary increments within the prescribed period
III. Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment as per the provisions in Public Service Commis-
sion Circular No. 01/2020
IV . Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination as at the due date
V. Should have obtained proficiency in official languages within the prescribed period
10.2 Grade promotions of Dental Medical Officers: Promotion to Grade I from Grade II
10.2.1 Promotion of Dental Medical Officers having Postgraduate Degrees/ Diplomas
Qualifications to be fulfilled
I. Should have been confirmed in service
II. Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of nine (09) years in Grade II of the
service category and earned nine (09) salary increments within the prescribed period.
III. Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment as per the provisions in Public Service
Commission Circular No. 01/2020
IV . Should have successfully completed a postgraduate qualification mentioned in Appendix I or II of the
Service Minute
V. Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination as at the due date
VI. Should have acquired the proficiency in official languages within the prescribed period
10.2.2 Promotion of Dental Medical Officers not having Postgraduate Degrees / Diplomas
Qualifications to be fulfilled
I. Should have been confirmed in service
II. Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of fifteen (15) years in Grade II of the
service category and earned fifteen (15) salary increments within the prescribed period
III. Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment as per the provisions in Public Service
Commission Circular No. 01/2020
IV . Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination as at the due date
V. Should have acquired the proficiency in official languages within the prescribed period

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 09.03.2021
3A
11.1.2 Qualifications and Selection Procedure for appointment to the posts in Medical Administrative Grade
Post / Grade (a) Educational and other qualifications
11.1.2.1
Deputy Medical Administrative Grade
I. Officers with postgraduate qualifications listed in Appendix I or
II of the Medical Service Minute are eligible to apply for the
posts in Deputy Medical Administrative Grade mentioned in
Appendix III.
II. Should be a Medical Officer/ Dental Surgeon/ Specialist Medical
Officer who has passed the Efficiency Bar Examination and has
been promoted to Grade II with 8 years continuous service in the
Department. (Period of 8 years will be computed from the date of
entry to the Preliminary Grade)
III Age Limit: Maximum age limit is not applicable as all the officers
are already in the public service.
Post / Grade (b)  Selection Procedure
Deputy Medical Administrative Grade I. When appointments or transfers are made to the posts in
Appendix III; for the posts in Deputy Medical Administrative
Grade of the special public health institutions mentioned in
the items 21 to 38 in Appendix IV , priority will be given to the
Medical Officers with an MSc or MD in Community Medicine
and for the posts in Deputy Medical Administrative Grade of
the other institutions mentioned in that appendix, priority
will be given to the Medical Officers with an MSc or MD in
Medical Administration.
II. Vacant posts in the Deputy Medical Administrative Grade
will be filled by way of annual transfer from among the officers
who are in the said grade.
III.  In case, a vac ant post cannot be filled by annual transfer, it
will be published and filled through an interview based on a
marking scheme approved by the Public Service Commission,
from among officers who comply with the due qualifications.
IV . Selection to the posts in Deputy Medical Administrative
Grade should be made subject to a structured interview based
on a marking scheme approved by the Public Service
Commission. In awarding marks, seniority in Grade I and II is
considered as a criterion.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 09.03.2021
4A
Note 5: Until such time the vacancies are filled by annual transfers,
the Appointing Authority may make appointments on acting basis
from among the officers with the required basic qualifications who
are already in the Deputy Medical Administrative Grade.
Note 6: As the Deputy Medical Administrative Grade is a new
grade until the transfer scheme of the said grade takes effect,
vacancies should be filled by way of advertisements as mentioned
in 11.1.2.1. b (II) and (III).
Post / Grade (b) Selection Procedure
Post / Grade (b) Selection Procedure
Deputy Medical Administrative Grade
11.1.2.2
Senior Medical Administrative Grade
I. Vacancies in the Senior Medical Administrative Grade other than
the posts in Senior Medical Administrative Grade approved by the
Cabinet of Ministers as end posts will be filled by annual transfers
of the officers holding the posts in Senior Medical Administrative
Grade. In the case where a post cannot be filled by annual trans-
fers, it will be published and filled based on service experience and
merit, upon the results of an interview held as per a marking scheme
approved by the Public Service Commission.
II. In an instance where a post in the Senior  Medical Administrative
Grade approved by the Cabinet of Ministers as an end post falls
vacant, it will be filled by appointing an officer selected according
to the order of merit of the marks obtained as per a marking scheme
approved by the Public Service Commission, after calling applica-
tions from Senior Medical Administrative Grade Officers, through
public notices.
III. Until the vacancies are filled by annual transfers, the Appointing
Authority may make appointments on acting basis from among
the officers with the required basic qualifications who are already
in the Deputy Medical Administrative Grade or Senior Medical
Administrative Grade.
11.2 Specialist Medical Officer Grade (Specialist Medical Officer Grade/ Specialist Dental Medical Officer Grade)
Category of Medical Officers/ Dental Medical Officers of the Government Health Service with the relevant postgraduate
qualifications who have obtained the Board Certificate as Medical Specialists (Specialist Medical Officers/ Specialist
Dental Medical Officers) from the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine, University of Colombo and who were promoted
to the Specialist Medical Officer Grade of the Ministry of Health.
According to the need identified by the Ministry of Health, fields of specialities and number of specialists will be
determined by a Committee with the chairmanship of the Director General of Health Services. The Specialist Medical
Officer leads the team of the respective unit with the ultimate goal of attaining the best possible standard care to the
patient with the available resources.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 09.03.2021
5A
11.2.1. Qualifications and Selection Procedure for Specialist Medical Officer Grade
Post/ Grade (a)  Educational and other qualifications
I. Should be a Medical Officer in Grade I and II with the
qualifications listed as Appendix I of the Medical Service Minute
as per the Government Gazette Notification No. 662/11 and dated
17/05/1991 published by cancelling the Gazette Notification No.
14/840 dated 07.02.1969.
II. Medical Officers having the qualifications listed in Appendix I
of the Medical Services Minute as per Government Gazette
Notification No. 662/11 and dated 17/05/1991 who have been
appointed to the Department on or before 01.01.1980 and fulfilled
the requirements of the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine,
University of Colombo and obtained the Board Certificate are
eligible to be appointed as Specialist Medical Officers.
III. Medical Officers with qualifications listed in Appendix I of the
Medical Services Minute as per Gazette Notification No. 662/11
and dated 17/05/1991 who have been appointed to Specialist
posts before 01.01.1980 or reported back to duty within the
prescribed period after 01.01.1980 having taken no-pay leave or
scholarships approved by the Department will continue to be
recognized as Specialist Medical Officers.
IV . Medical Officers in Grade II who have obtained the Board
Certificate of the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine, University
of Colombo upon the successful completion of the appropriate
postgraduate training programme and fulfilled the postgraduate
qualifications listed in Appendix I are eligible to be appointed as
Specialist Medical Officers.
V. Officers will be appointed after promoting as Medical Officers in
Grade II/I as per Sub-sections II and IV above and the salary of
the Specialist Medical Officer Grade will be paid from the date of
appointment to the grade only upon the approval of the Public
Service Commission.
VI. Requirement and the number of approved cadres should be
decided upon the recommendations of the Cadre Commission
chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Health in order to fulfill
service requirements of a speciality based on the need of an
institution.
VII. Sub-sections I to IV above are applicable to the Specialist Dental
Medical Officers as well.
Specialist Medical Officer  Grade

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 09.03.2021
6A
Post/ Grade (b) Selection Procedure
Specialist Medical Officer  Grade Application for specialist posts:
Applications for specialist posts will be called only from the officers who
have obtained the Board Certificate as Specialist Consultants/ Specialist
Dental Surgeons. Applications from those who are waiting for the Board
Certificate of the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine will not be accepted.
Following speciality will be incorporated as a new insertion into Appendix I in addition to the speciality presently listed
under Recognized Qualifications for promotion to the Specialist Consultant/ Dental Surgeon Grade in Appendix I.
Speciality Recognized Qualification
77.  Intensive Care Medicine MD in Intensive Care Medicine
Speciality and Recognized Qualifications listed under Srl. Nos. 16 and 32 required for the promotion to Medical Officer
Grade I from Medical Officer/ Dental Medical Officer Grade II depicted in Appendix II will be amended as follows.
Speciality Recognized Qualification
16. Medical Education Diploma in Medical Education
32. Other Successful completion of Doctor of Medicine or the examination of
Part I or Part II of Doctor of Medicine mentioned in Appendix I
Following particulars will be inserted as a new insertion under Srl. No. 58 of the table listed under Appendix IV applicable
to the Senior Medical Administrative Grade.
Medical Post Mandatory Academic Number of Total
Institutions Qualifications required Institutions
58 Senior Assistant MSc or Doctor of Medicine 1 1
Secretary (Medical (Medical Administration)
Services)
03 - 659
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.