

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1790$16 – 2012 foieïn¾ 28 jeks isl=rdod – 2012'12'28
No. 1790/16 – FRIDAY, DECEMBER 28, 2012
My No.: CI/1804.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
The Collective Agreement entered into between Haychem (private) Limited, No. 400, Deans road, Colombo 10 of the one part and the Inter
Company Employees' Union, No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Sri Suboothipura, Battaramulla of the other part on 14th day of  November 2011
is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, chapter  131,  of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon  (Revised
Edition 1956)
V . B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
13th December, 2012.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT NO. 43 OF 2011
This collective agreement  made this fourteenth day of November Two Thousand and  Eleven to take effect from the First day of November
Two Thousand and Eleven Pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between
Haychem (Private) Limited, having its registered office at 400 Deans road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as the ''Employer'') of the
One part
and
The Inter Company Employees’ union a registered Trade Union having its office at 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Sri Suboothipura, Battaramulla
(hereinafter referred to as the Union) of the
Second Part
Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
Title: This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Haychem (private) Limited Manual Workers' Collective Agreement of 2011.
1A – G17072 – 355 (2012/12)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
PART I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL  THERETO AND
CONNECTED THEREWITH
1. Persons Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and the members of the Union
who are employed  by the Employer in a Manual or labouring capacity on monthly contracts of employment as at the date of signing this
Agreement and for whom provision has been made in the wage scales set out in schedules 1 and 2 of this  Agreement. For employees recruited
to the permanent cadre after first June Two Thousand and Eight, provision has been made in the Wage Scales  set out in Schedule 3 of this
Agreement and Clauses 16 and 20 shall not apply to such new employees.
2. Earlier Collective Agreement .– The provisions of this agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of the existing
Collective Agreement between the same parties.
3. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of November Two Thousand  and
Eleven and shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving  notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act in
writing to the  other, subject to the following provisos:
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the 1st day of November Two Thousand and
Fourteen and no notice given before that date shall be regarded as valid,
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lankan  Rupee under any provision of law, a party shall be at
liberty to abrogate this Agreement by giving on month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial Disputes
Act.
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment .–  During the continuance in force of this agreement the terms and conditions
of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall  come into being at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
5. New Employees.–  The Company will be entitled to recruit employees to the permanent cadre after the date hereof and place
them on a suitable point in the Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3, if required. Such new employees will not be covered by clauses 16 and 20
of this Agreement. The Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3 hereto includes the Statutory Allowances as at the date of this Agreement.
6. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months,
provided however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee,
the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the
Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation the
Employer shall have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice.
7. Attendance. –
(1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an Employee shall present himself for work on every day
(other than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work
throughout the normal working hours.
(2) If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in his own occupation he shall be
deemed to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work
site of the Employer where work is available.
(3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
8. Hours of Work.–  The hours of work on a normal working day or on a shift shall be nine and one half (9 1/2) hours inclusive of
a half (1/2) hour interval for lunch and two fifteen minutes intervals for tea. (Please note that the decision to work a five day week was arrived
at consequent to the Fuel Conservation Law of 1973 and the request made by the employees to continue with the same work arrangements
after the repeal of the Law. Therefore, currently the employees enjoy the benefit of an additional holiday on the short working day which
is – presently on Saturday).

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
3A
9. Forfeiture of Wages.–  Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer, an Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
10. Overtime.–
(1) If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer.
Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer
shall constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
(2) Overtime work (that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one half
(11/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 (a) hereof.
11. Weekly Holiday.–
(1) In respect of each week every Employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in that week as the weekly holiday
provided however, that if an Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours exclusive of any
period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one
day’s wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19(b)
hereof.
(2) In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include –
(a) Every  holiday allowed by the Employer to Employee as Annual holiday;
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 13 hereof; and
(c) Everyday’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer;
(3) The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) a day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however, that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in Sub-clause (1) then and
in such event that Employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in
accordance with the provisions of Clause 19(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that Employee
within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly
holidays in any one calendar month the Employer may with the consent of the Employee –
(a) instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that Employee
shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid, pay him one
day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday, or
(b) in case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in
respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s
wage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) that in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration –
(a) one and half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19(a) hereof
for the No. of hours worked during the first nine (09) hours (exclusive of one (01) hour for a meal); and
(b) at double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19(1) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work.
The provisions of this Sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the Employer for
periods exceeding twelve (12) hours in respect of the duration of each such period.
(4) Saturday shall be a non-working day and where an employee does not qualify for a paid weekly holiday in terms of this Clause,
he shall forfeit three fifth of his pay for Saturday if he has worked only 2 days in the week; four fifth of his pay for Saturday
if he has worked only one day in the week and shall receive no pay for the Saturday if he has not worked on any day in the
week. For the purpose of this Sub-clause days worked will be reckoned in terms of Sub-clause 2 above.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
12. Annual Holidays.– An employee will be entitled to a maximum of fourteen (14) days earned annual leave in accordance with the
practice of the Company.
13. Public Holidays.–
(1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the practice of the Company provided however, that an
Employee may be employed on a public holiday in accordance with practice of the Company.
(2) If any public holiday which an Employee is eligible to under the provisions of Sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day either
in the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall be granted
to the Employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of Clause 11 hereof.
(3) If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of Sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday the number
of hours constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding such public holiday shall be four and one half
(4 1/2) hours and no interval for a meal shall be granted.
14. Casual Leave.–
(1) In respect of each year  of employment during which any Employee has been continuously in employment that Employee
shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill health if that Employee's
entitlement to sick leave  has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as 'Casual Leave') with remuneration  for the
period or an aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be
liable to pay such remuneration. Provided however, that not more than two (2) days Casual Leave shall be taken at any time
save and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided further that any Employee shall not be entitled to take Casual Leave
immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of any
Employee's first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to Casual Leave for that year
computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months' service.
(2) Casual Leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the
application. Where an Employer finds it difficult to grant  an application for Casual Leave his difficulty shall be notified to
the Employee as soon as possible after the  application is made and in such case the Employee may be  required to state the
reason for the application in order that  the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the cirumstances to grant him
Casual Leave.
15. Sick Leave.–
(1) In any year an Employee covered by the Wage Scales set out in Schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement shall be entitled to Sick
Leave not exceeding 21 days provided that
(a) his illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer)
and
(b) the Employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 6 hereof, Provided however, that an Employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment
be entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months' probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months' probation.
(2) In any year an Employee covered after  First June Two Thousand and Eight and covered by the Wage Scale set out in Schedule
3 of this Agreement shall be entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding 7 days provided that
(a) his illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer)
and
(b) the Employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 6 hereof. Provided however, that an Employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment
be entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding five (05) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months' probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding three (03) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months' porbation.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
5A
16. Monthly consolidated  wages in lieu of CCPI consolidation.–
(1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 17 hereof each Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions
herein contained, a monthly consolidated wages on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in Schedules 1 and
2 hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set out in Schedules 1 and 2 hereto include the Statutory Allowances as at the date of this
Agreement.
(3) The wages of employees who are in employment as at the date of this Agreement and for whom  provision has been made in
the wage scales set out Schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement will be revised as follows
(a) A sum of Rs. 500/- would be added to the wages payable to each employee with effect from the first day of September
2011.
(b) A Sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each employee with effect from the first day of September
2012.
(c) A Sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each employee with effect from the first day of September
2013.
(d) A Sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each employee with effect from the first day of September
2014.
4. Employees recruited to the permanent cadre after 1st June 2008 and for whom provision has been made in the Wage Scale set
out in schedule 3 hereto, shall not be covered by the provisions of this clause and therefore would not be entitled to the afor ementioned
payments.
17. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages:
1. For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an Employee shall receive with effect from the First day of November Two
Thousand and Eleven on the  basis of  scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedules 1, 2 and 3 hereto the following provisions shall
apply.
(i) To the wage payable  to an employee as at the Thirty  First day of  October Two Thousand and Eleven an amount
equivalent  to 12.5%  shall be added  subject to a minimum of Rs. 1700/-
2. Each employee shall thereafter be placed at the corresponding point on the wage scales set out in  schedules 1, 2 and 3 and 3 here
to in the grade  applicable to him. If there is no corresponding point, he shall be placed on the next higher point on the same grade in monetary
terms.
3. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka.
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law  applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging the
Employer to make such payment, the employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and in
terms of such written law;
(b) Recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whether
or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
4. ( a) As a matter of goodwill it is agreed that an employee who is in employment as at the date hereof shall receive an ex-gratia
payment of a sum representing an amount equal to 12.5% of the wage payable to an employee as at Thirty First October
Two Thousand and Eleven subject to a minimum of Rs. 1700/- multiplied by 3.
(b) The lump sum payment by way of notional arrears shall not constitute a part of an employee's earnings for any purpose
whatsoever and shall not attract any consequential payments such as overtime, Provident Fund, Trust Fund etc.
18. Productvity Bonus Scheme.– Effective from the First day of November Two Thousand and Eleven the Employer will pay a
productivity bonus in accordance with the productivity Bonus Schemes set out in Schedules 4 and 5 of this agreement. The norms mentioned
in Schedule 4 will be the level of production to be achieved by the employees on a daily basis during normal working hours.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
19. The Wages For Periods Less Than One Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less
than one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) for one hour The monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day a day's wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning
or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day's wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
20. Annual Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Non Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity.–
(1) A lump sum payment on an ex-gratia basis would be made to the employee for whom provision has been made in the wages
scales out in Schedules 1 and 2 on the following basis.
(a) A sum of Rs. 14,000/- payable in November 2011 for the period 1st September 2010 to 31st August 2011.
(b) A sum of Rs. 14,000/- payable in September 2012 for the period 1st September 2011 to 31st August 2012.
(c) A sum of Rs. 14,000/- payable in September 2013 for the period 1st September 2012 to 31st August 2013.
(d) A sum of Rs. 14,000/- payable in September 2014 for the period 1st September 2013 to 31st August 2014.
(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on these ex-gratia payments.
(3) Employees recruited to the permanent cadre after 1st June 2008 and for whom provision has been made in the Wage Scale set
out in Schedule 3 hereto, shall not be covered by the provisions of this Clause and therefore would not be entitled to the
aforementioned payments.
21. Provident Fund.– The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident fund at rates prescribed by the Employee’s
Provident Fund Act No. 15 of 1958.
22. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to Employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act No. 12 of
1983.
23. Bonus.–
(1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payment in the past
and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each of
his employees a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the year immediately
preceding the signing of the Agreement. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to an amount less than
the sum of money paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of this Agreement the
Union may canvas such reduction of bonus with the Employer concerned. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in the
matter, the Union may pursue this matter with the Employers Federation of Ceylon. If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus
is not settled with the Federation, the same shall be referred to a committee of three (3) persons (hereinafter referred to as a
‘Bonus committee’) which shall be constituted in accordance with the provisions of sub-clause 2 for settlement in the manner
hereinafter set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner General of Labour wil l
constitute a Bonus Committee which shall consist of three (3) senior accountants nominated by the Council of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10) years’ post
qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants to the Commissioner General of Labour, the Employer, the Union and to the Federation. Thereupon the
Commissioner General of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee so constituted a
statement of principles and procedures by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in settling the dispute
as to the reduction of Bonus.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
7A
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner General of Labour
the Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of the bonus
by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should be reduced. The
Bonus Committee shall communicate its decision in writing to the Employer, the Union the Federation and the Commissioner
General of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final  and binding on the parties
to the dispute and the Union and/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or
otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If however, the Bonus committee is divided in its decision then
the decision of the commissioner General of Labour on  the matter shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute and
the Commissioner General's dicision shall be communicated in writing to the Employer, the Union and to the Federation, and
the Union or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during the
continuance in force of this Agreement.
(4) The Bonus committee shall not be entitled not be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus as in the year immediately preceding the signing of this
Agreement.
(5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(6) The payable of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding the signing
of this Agreement  shall be in the sole discretion of the employer and shall not be called in question by the union and/or its
members nor shall the employer's failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of the commissioner General of Labour the council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri lanka will
nominate three (3) chartered accountants with not less than ten (10)  years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the Bonus committee.
24. Annual Increments.–
(1) The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in Schedules 1, 2 and 3 shall be
automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality or
disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case
where an increment is–
(a) deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year.
(b) stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being
dependent upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment
is neighter stopped nor deferred, then the suspension on shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the
date of suspension thereof shall occur to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified, in writing of a
complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in the circumstances
does not merit termination of employement.
(2) With effect from first November Two Thousand and Eleven (2011) the incremental rates as stipulated in respect of the
consolidated scales of wages set out in Schedules 1, 2 and 3 hereof and/or may be revised thereafter in terms of clause
16(3) and shall stand increased in the manner set out hereunder.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
Schedule 1
Grade III 10 x Rs. 100/-
10 x Rs. 105/-
129 x Rs. 115/-
Grade II 149 x Rs. 80/-
Grade I 149 x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 1
Skilled 99 x Rs. 125/-
Semi-skilled 99 x Rs. 105/-
Unskilled 99 x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 1
Class B 149 x Rs. 105/-
Class G 149 x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 2
Grade 3 10 x Rs. 100/-
10 x Rs. 105
79 x Rs. 115/-
Grade 2 99 x Rs. 80/-
Grade 1 99 x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 3
Grade 3 10 x Rs. 100/-
10 x Rs. 105
79 x Rs. 115/-
Grade 2 99 x Rs. 80/-
Grade 1 99 x Rs. 65/-
(3) This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
25. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
26. Suspension.–
(1) An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer –
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal;
(b)  In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry;
(2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide the
Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an inquiry into
the charge or charges in terms of clause 27 hereof.
27. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then –

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
9A
(1) Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under clause 26 hereof or not, the Employee shall be furnished with
a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such Employee
and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than five (5) clear working days in which to give the answer or
explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
(2) Within five (5) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a written
answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer, the
Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(3) If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
(4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within fourteen (14) working
days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(5) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except for
reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from the
conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such charges
and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(6) If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that–
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 26(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespective of
such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the charges in the
show cause notice;
(b) the employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s suspension
and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer is
unable to  make a final order as is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities for
further investigations or inquiries and the the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities or if in view of
the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously referred to the
Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be awaited,
then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.
(7) If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make order under paragraphs (a)
to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30) working
days from the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for a period
of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in excess of thirty
(30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause,
irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(8) In any case where the employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a) to (c)
of sub clause 6 within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from so doing by
reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between the Employer
and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for such further time as may be
agreed.
(9) The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employer
proposes to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the Union
disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry the
Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject to
the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within fourteen (14) working days after the receipt of the
Employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
(10) The Employer may, as an alternative to more serious disciplinary action, recover from an employee the cost of damage to or
loss of the Employer’s goods or property, or a percentage thereof, caused through the negligence of the employee as determined
at a domestic inquiry or on the admission of the Employee.
28. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an
Employee who has retired may, in the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.
29. Termination of Services.–
(1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for work usually performed by
the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 6 hereof or unless otherwise expressly
stipulated) be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable from
month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one months’s previous notice be given by either
party to the other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof at
the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period or the
failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.
30. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of any of its members who is employed
in any workplace of the Employer bound by this Agreement. In regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as
matters affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the following provisions shall
apply.
(1) When the Union is representative of not less that forty per cent (40%) of the employees whose membership subcription is not
in arrears, the Employer of such employees will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and
negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty percent (40%) of
such employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with the
Union competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one workplace and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one workplace but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in the
service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claims or raise such matter shall be determined by reference
to the duly qualified members of such Union in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the Employer
in Sri Lanka.
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer the Union is, competent to make
general claims or raise general matters, the same shall be determined by a referendum which shall be held by the Department of
Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the Employer and the Union and the parties hereto.
31. Disputes Procedure.–
(1) In the first instance the Union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer of such members and give
the Employer at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply. If in the Union’s opinion the Employer’s reply is
unsatisfactory the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
(2) When the union concludes that negotiations with the Employer and the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon have been abortive
if shall ask the Department of Labour to intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange
conference and / or discussions with a view to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of
Labour shall then proceed until the Department of Labour reports failure.
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause 33 hereof all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties hereto
shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
11A
32. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementing this Agreement Shall be Dealt with .– Any anomaly, arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between the Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled
by negotiation, if shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
33. Trade Union Action.– The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance
in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action against the Employer, in res pect of any
dispute between the Union or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such dispute is related to the Agreement, except where such
dispute has been caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the Union
is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union and / or its members or
is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and / or its members. Provided however that at least se ven (7) days
notice in writing shall be given by the Union to the Employer, the Federation and the Commissiner General of Labour before the date of
commencement of any intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent upon and act of the Employer which in the opinion
of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or underm ine the
existence or the legitimate activities of the Union and / or its members is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union
and / or its memebers.
34. Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits.–
(1) The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this
Agreement they will not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable
to any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement as amended or altered in terms of this Agreement, or all or any
of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual
agreement.
(2) The Employer agrees with the Union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any
of the benefits presently enjoyed by the Employees other than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses 1 or 2 may be resolved by voluntary
arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary
arbitration.
Part II
Containing the Facilities and Concessions Granted by the Employer to the Union.
1. Breaches of Collective Agreeement.– If in the opinion of the Employer and the Federation, the Union shall commit a breach of
any of the terms of this Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions
granted by the Employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right
to restore such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.
2. Domestic Inquires.– If an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 27 is a member of the Union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice.
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an
Observer’) to be present as an observer without loss of wages for absence from work.
(b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause notice desires an ‘Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
3. Union Meetings.– The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union.
(a) In respect of each meeting, which the Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, an application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose inter-alia, one or more of the
undernoted conditions.
(i) that no person other than an employee in the service of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;
(ii) on occasions such as the Annual General meeting of the Union, office bearers of the Parent Union may, with the previous
approval of the Employer, attend;
(iii) fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that the terms on which premission to hold a meeting of the
Union is granted are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of the, or in
connection with a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other person at the Employer’s premises and
the Union shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave
(1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave.–
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse to grant permission if, in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of the
Union –
(a) to be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.
Or
(b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Court, arbitrators or Labour Tribunals - without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The Employer shall provide the President and the Secretary one day’s duty leave per month to attend meetings at the Union
Headquarters in connection with Union activities if required to do so by the Union. The Employer shall be informed of such
meetings at least 48 hours before the meeting and written approval should be obtained from the management.
(3) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union course or
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays,
which he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
(4) The Employer shall grant a day’s duty leave for the Branch Committee (not exceeding fourteen (14) employees) to attend the
Annual Convention of the Parent Union. However, the Employer shall be informed of such meetings at least 48 hours before
the meeting and written approval should be obtained from the management.
5. Check-off
(1) The facility of check-off shall be granted, subject to Clause I of Part II hereof only so long as the Union represents no less than
forty (40) percent of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall on the written request of an employee deduct from the wages due to such Employees the current monthly
Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to the union and remit the amount so
deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
13A
(3) Every employee who agrees to the deduction of union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form set
out in Form No. 1 referred to as an ‘Authorization’.
(4) Every employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect in the
form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a 'Revocation'.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of receipt
of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable deductions under and authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation canceling such
authorization. Provided however–
(a) that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure
to comply with sub-clause 5 or 6;
(b) that at his discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in
which the deductions from the Employee's wages in that month exceed the deduction permitted by Law;
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each authorization
by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a prepaid envelop addressed to the
Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the Union's
dues actually deducted.
FORM NO. 1
Name of Employer: Haychem (Private) Limited
AUTHORIZATION
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the HAYCHEM (PRIV A TE) LIMITED COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2011 and I desire to
avail myself of the facility for check-off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am elegible as a member of the INTER COMPANY
EMPLOYEES' UNION, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees.............................. (Rs.      ) in respect of my current
monthly membership due to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from
my wages due immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………  ……………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………  ……………………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on………………
(To be filled by the Employer)

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer: HAYCHEM (PRIV ATE) LIMITED
REVOCATION
With reference  to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership  dues in favo ur of
INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES union with effect from the wages next due to me immediatly following the date hereof'
. ………………… …………………………
(Date of Singing) (Signature of Employee)
………………… …………………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on …………………
(To be filled by the employer)
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In parts I  II of  this agreement unless excluded by the subject or contest, the following words shall have  the meaning set  opposite to them.
WORDS MEANINING
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the subscriptions
payable to the Union by an employee from the latter's pay.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An Employee covered and bound by this Agreement
(For convenience sometimes referred
to as ‘he’  or its grammatical variations)
Employer Haychems (private) Ltd.
Federation Employers' Federation of Ceylon
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act. No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment.
Relevant Wages Board The wages board  which covers the Trade in which the particulars employee is employed
in.
Union Inter company Employees Union
W age The monthly wage according  to the scale of wages set out in Schedules 1, 2  and 3 hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any saturday night and midnight on the succeeding
Saturday night.
Y ear A continuous period of twelve  (12) months
Words importing the Masculing gender shall include in feminine
Words importing the Singular number shall include the plural and Vice versa.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
15A


<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
17A


<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
19A


<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
21A


<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
23A


<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
25A


<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
27A


<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
29A


<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
31A


<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
33A


<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
35A


<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
37A


<!-- page 38 -->

38A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
39A


<!-- page 40 -->

40A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
41A


<!-- page 42 -->

42A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
43A


<!-- page 44 -->

44A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
45A


<!-- page 46 -->

46A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
47A


<!-- page 48 -->

48A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
49A


<!-- page 50 -->

50A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
51A


<!-- page 52 -->

52A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
53A


<!-- page 54 -->

54A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
55A


<!-- page 56 -->

56A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
57A


<!-- page 58 -->

58A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
59A


<!-- page 60 -->

60A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
61A


<!-- page 62 -->

62A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
63A


<!-- page 64 -->

64A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012


<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
65A


<!-- page 66 -->

66A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
Schedule 4
PRODUCTION NORMS
Type of Pack Pack Sizes Operation Units
with Effect From
1st November 2011
50 / 100ml 4030
CATEGORY Glass Bottles 200ml 3360
400 / 500ml 2890
A 100ml 4310
Poly Bottles 200ml 3750
400 / 500ml 2890
Poly Cans 1.0 ltr 648
(Hand Filling) 2.0 ltr 606
3.0 / 4.0 ltr 514
50 / 100g (MF) 2500
CATEGORY Powder 200g (MF) 2500
B Products 500g (MF) 2000
1.0 kg (MF) 1250
5-25g (HF) 1500
50 / 100g (HF) 1250
200g (HF) 1100
500g (HF) 1025
1.0 kg (HF) 600
FORMULATIONS
No. of Batches
Curaterr 5% G 6 × 735 kg
Curaterr 3% G 8 × 625 kg
Insecticide 2 × 1200 kg
Weedicide 2 × 2500 kg
Powder and Baits 8 × 100 kg

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
67A
Schedule 4 (Continued)
QUALIFYING  LEVEL  /  QUANTITY  FOR  PAYMENT  OF  PRODUCTIVITY  BONUS
Pack Size Productivity Level Starting Qualifying level for
from 1st November 2011 Incetive payment
50 / 100ml Glass 4030 5239
200ml Glass 3360 4368
400 / 500ml Glass 2890 3757
100ml Poly 4310 5603
200ml Poly 3750 4875
400 / 500ml Poly 2890 3757
1.0 Ltr Poly Can 648 842
2.0 Ltr Poly Can 606 788
3.0 / 4.0 Ltr Poly Can 514 668
50 / 100g Powder (MF) 2500 3250
200g  Powder (MF) 2500 3250
500g Powder (MF) 2000 2600
1.0 kg Powder (MF) 1250 1625
5-25g Powder (HF) 1500 1950
50 / 100g Powder (HF) 1250 1625
200g Powder (HF) 1100 1430
500g Powder (HF) 1025 1332
1.0 kg Powder (HF) 600 780

<!-- page 68 -->

68A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'12'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
Schedule 5
PRODUCTIVITY  BONUS  PAYMENTS  SCHEME
% Productivity Level Over Norm Payment (Rs.)
10 Nil
20 Nil
30 59.50
40 87.50
50 285.00
60 320.00
70 380.00
80 460.00
90 560.00
100 760.00
IN WITNESS WHEREOF parties have hereunto set their hands on this Fourteenth (14th) day of November Two Thousand and Eleven
(2011) at Colombo.
01 - 394
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
