

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"094- 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 19 jeks  isl=rdod - 2018.10'19
No. 2,094– FRIDAY , OCTOBER  19, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... 206
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th November 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th
October  2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
1st January 2018.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
205 - B 81459- 353 (10/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

206  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018.10.19
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 19.10.2018
A t t i t th ''I di C C
Miscellaneous Notices
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KELANIYA
BUDDHIST WOMEN ZZZZZS CHARITABLE
SOCIETY ACT
I, Ven. Athuraliye Rathana Thero do hereby give notice, under
Standing Order No. 53 (1) of the Standing Orders of the
Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill entitled "An
Act to incorporate the Kelaniya Buddhist Womenzs Charitable
Society.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Society which has
the following general objects :-
(1) to maintain a Senehasa Child Development Center in
the name of zzSenehasa Dari Sevana Children's HomeZZ
at No. 307/16, Jayamawatha, Webada, Kirillawala by
promoting the education, Virtues and Cultural
activities of the destitute, abandoned daughters of
low income Buddhist families giving them the
education from primary level up to  the university
standard ;
(2) to select the students of low income families in
Gampaha District and to guide them to obtain health
facilities and professional talents necessary for
promoting their education and talents and granting
them with financial scholarships ;
(3) to act in order to convince the Buddhism for every
one and to take necessary actions to propagate
Buddhism all over the world,
Ven. Athuraliye Rathana Thero,
Member of Parliament.
10-1190