

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2515
2515
wxl 1"945 - 2015 foieïn¾ ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'12'11
No. 1,945 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 11, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - V acant ... ... 2518
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2520
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 01st January, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th
December, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”.
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,944 of 04.12.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2516
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2517
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2518
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
TRINCOMALEE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th January, 2016.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th November, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Application is called Applications should be sent
Trincomalee Thambalagamuwa Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of The District Secretary/The Additional
Mullipoththana Division Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Trincomalee
12–288
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages
TRINCOMALEE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2519
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th January, 2016.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th November, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Application is called Applications should be sent
Trincomalee Thambalagamuwa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of The District Secretary/The Additional
Thambalagamuwa West Division Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Trincomalee.
12–320
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th January, 2016.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
23rd November, 2015.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2520
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Passara Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
General) in Yatikinda Division General, District Secretariat, Badulla
12–351
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  HIGHER  EDUCATION  AND
HIGHWAYS
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
ADMISSION  OF  STUDENTS  TO  THE  ADV ANCED
TECHNOLOGICAL  INSTITUTES
FOR  THE  ACADEMIC  YEAR – 2016
APPLICATIONS are called for the Higher National Diplomas
conducted by  Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological
Education (SLIATE) for those who have successfully completed
the GCE (A/L) Examination on or before 2014.
How to apply.–  All duly filled applications prepared according
to the Specimen application form appeared below should be directed
to the relevant Advanced Technological Institute/Section mentioned
in the Section “B”, under a registered cover with a receipt obtained
by crediting of Rs.500  (Five hundred rupees) to the SLIATE
Account No. 025-2-001-1-3397613 at People’s Bank, Hyde Park
Branch (Colombo) or any other branch of  the People’s Bank  in Sri
Lanka. The “course applied” should be clearly stated on the top
left hand corner of the envelope.
Candidates who wish to apply for more than one institute should
submit separate applications for each institute applied, while
attaching separate receipt worth Rs. 500 for each of those.
Applications of which the money is credited to some other account
numbers other than the specified account number will be rejected.
The applications received after the closing date (15.01.2016)
will not be entertained.
Addresses of the Advanced Technological Institutes/ATI
Sections as well as the courses conducted by those institutes are
available in the section ‘B’ and the applicants should select their
academic programs from the list given in Section ‘A’ according to
their qualifications.
Mode of conduct of programs :
Day/Full Time Courses: During weekdays, day time
Part Time Courses : During Weekends, day time
Medium of Instruction : English
Part time courses are confined for those who are employed in
relevant fields.
Course fees.–  No course fees are levied for Day/Full Time
Courses.  Part Time course fee per semester are as follows :
Higher National Diploma in Rs. 5,000
Accountancy - HNDA
Higher National Diploma in English Rs. 8,000
(HND in English)
Higher National Diploma in Information Rs. 12,000
Technology - HNDIT
Interview.– Short listed students will have to either sit for a
written test and/or face an interview for the selections. The short
listing of students will be based basically on the Z-Score of the
Advanced Level Examination. Date, time and venue of written test
will be notified in writing. Necessary original documents are to be
submitted in the interview. When the original documents are not
available, certified photocopies will be accepted with the agreement
of submitting the originals at the time of registration to the academic
program.
Hostel Facilities.– Limited number of hostel facilities are available
only for girls at ATI  Gampaha and Dehiwala. ATI Ampara and
Colombo are provided with hostel facilities for both girls and boys.
This facility is arranged only for the full time students .
Section "A"
01. Higher National Diploma in Engineering -  (HNDE) –
Civil (Full Time)  - 3 ½ years
Higher National Diploma in Engineering -  (HNDE) –
Electrical/Electronic (Full Time) 3 ½ years
Higher National Diploma in Engineering -  HNDE –
Mechanical (Full Time)  - 3 ½ years
Higher National Diploma in Building Services
Engineering -  (HNDBSE) -  (Full Time) -  3 ½ years
Higher National Diploma in Quantity Surveying –
(HNDQS) (Full Time) –    2  ½ years

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2521
Applicants should have the followings:-
(i) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination with three passes in Maths
stream in one sitting,
and
(ii) Ordinary pass in English Language at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
02. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy - HNDA
(Full Time)  -  4 years
Applicants should have one of the followings:-
(i) Passes for three subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination  with Business Statistics, Combined
Mathematics or Accountancy as one of the three
subjects of which at least, two Credit passes  should
have been obtained.
A Credit pass in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination is considered as an alternative  for a credit
pass in  either Business Statistics, Combined
Mathematics or   Accountancy at the G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination ;
or
(ii) Completion of National Certificate for Accounting
Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical
Education & Training ;
and
Ordinary pass in English at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
2.1 Higher National Diploma in Accountancy – HNDA
(Part Time)  -  4 years
Applicants should have one of the followings :-
(i) Passes for all four subjects (Old syllabus)  / three
subjects (New Syllabus)  in one  sitting at the  G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination ;
or
(ii) Completion of  National Certificate in Accounting
Technicians,  conducted by the    Department of
Technical Education & Training ;
or
(iii) Completion of National Certificate in Business Studies
(Accountancy Group) or National Certificate in
Accounting conducted by the  Department of Technical
Education & Training ;
and
Practical Experience – Applicant should be employed
in the relevant field in a   Government Institution /
Public Enterprises or a recognized firm.
Those who possess the following qualification will be
exempted from the 1st year and will be admitted to
the 2nd year when satisfying the other entry
requirements and availability of places :
(i) Completion of the National Diploma in Business
Studies/Business Finance conducted by the Sri Lanka
Institute of Advanced Technological Education
(SLIATE) ; or Department of Technical Education
and Training,
(ii) Completion of the Higher National Diploma in
Business Administration/Business Finance/
Management conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of
Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE),
(iii) Completion of second year, of the Higher National
Diploma in Commerce conducted by the Sri Lanka
Institute of Advanced Technological Education
(SLIATE) or Department of Technical Education and
Training,
(iv) University Degree in relevant field (Accountancy/
Business Administration/B.Com. Marketing
Management/Human Resourses Management/
Business Finance/Business Economics),
(v) Completion of CAB I and CAB II or Licentiate I and
II at Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
(ICASL),
(vi) Completion of the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants (CIMA) - UK - Part I and Part II,
(vii) Completion of the Association of Accounting
Technicians (AAT-SL),
(viii) Completion of the Certified Management Accountants
(CMA)-SL.
 03. Higher National Diploma in Management  – HNDM
(Full Time) – 3 years
Applicants should have one of the followings :
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination in any stream (Mathematics, Bio Science
and Commerce are preferable)
or
(ii) National Certificate for Accounting Technicians or National
Certificate in Business S tudies (Public Administration/
Marketing) conducted by the Department of Technical
Education and  Training,
and
Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2522
04. Higher National Diploma in Tourism and Hospitality
Management – HNDTHM  -  (Full Time) – 3 years
Applicants should have one of the following :
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in any stream (Mathematics, Bio Science and
Commerce are preferable) ;
 or
(ii) National Certificate for Accounting Technicians or National
Certificate in Business S tudies (Public Administration/
Marketing) conducted by the Department of Technical
Education and Training ;
and
Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination.
05. Higher National Diploma in Business Administration -
HNDBA  -  (Full time) – 2 ½ years
Applicant should have one of the following :
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in Commerce stream ;
 or
(ii) Successful completion of National Certificate in Accounting
Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical
Education and Training ;
and
Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination.
06. Higher National Diploma in Information Technology –
HNDIT  -  (Full time – 2 1/2 years / Part time – 2 ½ years)
Applicants should have the following :
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in any stream. (Mathematics, Bio Science
and Commerce are preferable) ;
and
Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination ;
and
Note.- (Only for part time students) should be  employed in IT
related field.
07. Higher National Diploma in Technology -HNDT
(Agriculture) (Full Time – 3 years)
Applicants should have the following :
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in Bio Science, two of which should be out of
the following subjects: Chemistry, Agricultural Science,
Biology and Physics ;
and
Ordinary passes for English and Mathematics at G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination.
08. Higher National Diploma in English  (HND in English)
– (Full time - 2  year course work and 06 months
in-plant training,/Part time - 2 years course work only)
Applicants should have one of the following :
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in any stream and a “C” pass in English
Literature or English Language at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination ;
or
(ii) English specialist Teacher Training Certificate; or the
Diploma offered by the College of Education ;
or
(iii) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in any stream and a pass in the National
Certificate in English for commerce, Industry and further
education conducted by the Department of Technical
Education and Training.
Note .– The Part Time candidates should have a
permanent employment in a relevant field with
one of the above mentioned qualifications.
09. Higher National Diploma in Business Finance –
HNDBF - (Full  Time –  2 ½ years)
Applicants should have one  of the following :
(i) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination with three passes including
Economics, Business Studies and Accounting or any two
of the above with one of the following subjects;
Geography, Home Economics, Political Science, Logic &
Scientific Methods, Agricultural Science or Combined
Mathematics in one sitting ;
or
(ii) Successful completion of National Certificate for
Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department
of Technical Education &  Training ;
and
Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the
G .C.E. (O/L) Examination.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2523
10. Higher National Diploma in Food Technology – HNDFT  -  (Full Time) – 2 ½ years
Applicants should have the followings :
(i) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination with three passes in Biological or Physical Science stream in one sitting ;
 and
Ordinary passes in Mathematics and English Language at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
Section "B"
Name of the ATI, Address, Telephone Numbers and the Name of the courses
Serial Name of the ATI/ATI Addresses T elephone Name of the courses are conducted
No. Section Numbers
01. Hardy Advanced Technolo gical Inginiyagala Rd., 063-2222056 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, HNDIT
Institute, Ampara Ampara 063-2223035 (FT), HNDT (Agri), HND in English (FT),
HND in English (PT), HNDTHM
02. Advanced Technological Akk ara III, Anula  Mawatha, 025-2234417 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT),  HND in English
Institute Section, Pandulagama (FT), HND in English (PT) HNDIT (FT)
Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
03. Advanced Technological Greenland Drive, Badulla 055-2230218 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM,
Institute, Badulla. 055-2223818 HNDIT (FT), HNDIT (PT), HND in English
(FT), HND in English (PT), HNDTHM
04. Advanced Technological Main Street, Kovil Kulam 065-2247519 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
Institute Section, Batticaloa East, Arayampathy (FT), HND in English (PT), HNDIT (FT),
HNDIT (PT)
05. Advanced Technological No. 42, Rodrigo Place, 011-2529479 HNDE (CIVIL, MECH, ELEC),
Institute, Colombo Colombo 15 011-2521282 HNDQS, HNDBSE
06. Advanced Technological No. 51, Waidya Rd., 011-2738349 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM,
Institute, Dehiwala Dehiwala HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HND in English
(FT), HND in English (PT), HNDBF,
HNDTHM
07. Advanced Technological Siridamma Mw., 091-2227880 HNDE, (CIVIL, MECH, ELEC), HNDA
Institute, Galle Labuduwa, Akmeemana 091-2246179 (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, HNDTHM,
HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HNDIT (PT),
HNDT (Agri), HND in English (FT), HND
in English (PT), HNDQS
08. Advanced T echnological Naiwala, Essalla, 033-2287519 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute, Gampaha V eyangoda 033-2292544 HNDT (Agri), HNDFT, HNDIT (PT)
09. Advanced T echnological No. 665/2, Beach  Rd., 021-2222595 HNDE, (CIVIL, ELEC), HNDA (FT), HNDA
Institute, Jaffna Guru Nagar, Jaffna 021-2239803 (PT), HNDM, HNDIT (FT), HNDIT (PT),
HND in English (PT), HND in English (FT),
HNDTHM
10. Advanced Technological No. 16, Keppetipola 081-2226644 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT),  HNDM,
Institute, Kandy Mawatha, Kandy 081-2232097 HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HND in English
(FT),
HND in English (PT), HNDTHM (FT)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2524
11. Advanced Technological Bandaranayake Mawatha, 035-2221297 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute, Kegalle Kegalle 035-2221713  HND in English (FT), HND in English (PT)
12. Advanced Technological No.22/1, Wilgoda Rd., 037-2224911 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, (FT)
Institute, Kurunegala. Kurunegala. 037-2229583 HNDIT (FT), HNDTT (PT) HND in English
(FT), HND in English (PT), HNDTHM
13. Advanced Technological New Town, 045-2231492 HNDA (PT), HNDA (FT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute Section, Rathnapura. Ratnapura. 045-2231493 HND in English (FT) HND in English (PT)
14. Advanced Technological Main S treet, Sammanthurai. 067-2261304 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
Institute Section, Sammanthurai. (FT), HND in English (PT)
15. Advanced Technological Y ayawaththa, Netolpitiya, 047-2241842 HN DA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute Section,Tangalle. T angalle. 047-2241843 HND in Engilsh (FT) HND in English (PT)
047-2241844
16. Advanced Technological Kanniya Rd,Varodayanagar, 026-2223232 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute, Trincomalee. Trincomalee. 026-2050617 HNDIT (PT), HND in English (FT), HND
in English (PT)
17. Advanced Technological Off A9 Road, 024-2052733 HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT)
Institute, Vauniya Veppankulam, Oamanthi, HNDIT (FT)
Vavuniya
Note:-
1. Higher National Diploma in Engineering, Higher National Diploma in Building Services Engineering and Higher National
Diploma in Quantity Surveying (Full time) should attend classes during weekdays as well as on certain days during
weekends, if the necessity arises.
2. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy programme (Day/Full time)  for the first and second years is conducted only
on weekdays. Third and fourth years of this academic programme are conducted in weekends only.
3. The first and second years of the Higher National Diploma in Management (Day/Full time) course will be conducted
during daytime of the weekdays and the third year programme is conducted during the weekend.
4. A pass in the General Paper is compulsory for the applicants qualified in the GCE (A/L) new Syllabus.
5. It is considered the Z-Score or aggregate marks of the GCE (A/L) Examination as the selection criteria to select for each
and every academic programme.
6. Preference will be given for the candidates passed in subjects or in the field relevant to the academic programme.
7. For day courses, it will be given preference for those who are under 23 years.
8. It must require to have at least 50 applicants to start a course in the particular ATI or ATI Section.
9. If the number of applicants exceeds the expected number of students, an aptitude test will be conducted in institutional
wise.
     10.  For whatever the reason no student will be transferred to any other Advanced Technological Institute after they have
been selected for a full time course in particular ATI or ATI Section.
11. Students who have registered for the courses with three years or above can be allowed to cancel the registration before 60
days starting from the closing date of registration given by the relevant institute.
Serial Name of the ATI/ATI Addresses T elephone Name of the courses are conducted
No. Section Numbers

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2525
Please note that the decision of the Director General SLIATE will be the final decision on the admission of students to Advanced
Technological Institute/Sections for the academic year 2016.
Closing date of applications 15.01.2016.
Web site : www.sliate.ac.lk
Dr. W. HILARY E. SILV A,
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education,
Office use only –  Course Number …………
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
SRI  LANKA INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED TECHNOLOGICAL  EDUCATION
Application form for Admission to Higher National Diploma Courses in year 2016
 Name of the Courses in the Order of preference
1. ………………....…..............................………….........………...
 2.  ………………....…..............................………….........………...
3.  ………………....…..............................………….........………...
1. Name with Initials :–––––––––––.
2. Name/Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
3. Address :–––––––––––.
4. Date of Birth : Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––, Date :–––––––––––.
Age (as at 15.01.2016) :  Years :–––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.
5. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
6. Sex :  :–––––––––––.
7. Administrative District :–––––––––––.  Contact Phone Number  :–––––––––––.
8. (i) Result of GCE (A/L) Examination (on or Before 2014) :
Year:–––––––––––. Index No.  :–––––––––––.        Medium :–––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
1. ……………………. …………….
2. ……………………. …………….
3. ……………………. …………….
Common General Paper : Pass/Fail
Aggregate/Z-Score of the above Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Result of GCE (Ordinary Level) Examination :-
Year:–––––––––––. Index No.  :–––––––––––.        Medium :–––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
1. ……………………. ……………. 6.  ……………………. …………….
2. ……………………. ……………. 7. ……………………. …………….
3. ……………………. ……………. 8.  ……………………. …………….
4. ……………………. ……………. 9.  ……………………. …………….
5. ……………………. ……………. 10.  ……………………. …………….

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2526
9. Highest Qualification in English as a subject :–––––––––––.
10. Only for part time courses :
Details of present employment :
Post  :–––––––––––.
E.P.F. Number :–––––––––––.
Place of work and Address :–––––––––––.
Date of Appointment :–––––––––––.
I do hereby declare that I am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution.  I am aware tha t
my registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that I concurrently follow a full time course at any
other state institution. I do hereby certify that the information furnished here is true and accurate to the best of my knowled ge.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(The bank receipt for Rs.500. Payable to SLIATE should be annexed.)
Affix the bank SLIP which you paid to the Peoples Bank
Name of the Bank : People's Bank
Branch : Hyde Park Corner Branch, Colombo 02
Account No. : 025-2-001-1-3397613
12-393
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Open Competitive examination for Recruitment of
Transport Officer to the Ministry of Education - 2015
APPLICATIONS are invited from the Sri Lankan citizens fulfilling
qualifications in this Gazette notification for the Open Competitive
Examination for the recruitment to the post of Transport Officer
vacant at the Ministry of Education.
01. Education Qualification :
(a) Should have passed six (06) subjects at one sitting with
credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English language,
Mathematics and two other subjects at the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination.
(b) Should have passed all subjects (excluding general common
examination) at the General Certificate of Education
(Advanced Level) examination (Sufficient to have passed
03 subjects at one sitting under the old syllabus).
02. Professional Qualifications Pertaining to the Field :
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the
University of Moratuwa or Hardy Institute, Ampara ;
or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority ;
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the
Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
(iv) Technical Diploma awarded by the Open University of
Sri Lanka ; or
(v) Successful completion of Part I of Engineering
examination conducted by Sri Lanka Institute of
Engineers ;
(vi) completion of qualifications pertaining to level six of
National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) relevant to the
field of the profession.
(vii) Having possessed other technical qualifications
recognized by Tertiary by Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission as equivalent in every way to
aforementioned technical qualifications. This will be
decided after inquiring the views and consent of the
Ministry of Higher Education and the institutions issuing
above certificates.
03. Age limit.- Age should not be below 18 years and above 30
years as at the closing date of applications. (Accordingly, candidates
whose birth day fall on 11.01.1998 or before and 11.01.1986 or after
will be qualified for this post).

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2527
04. Other Qualification :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should have possessed an excellent character ;
(iii) Every candidate should possess a sufficient physical and
mental condition that permits to perform their duties in
any area within Sri Lanka ;
(iv) Qualifications required for the appointment to the post
are considered to have been filled, only if the qualifications
required under paragraph 01 and 02 have been filled by the
candidate in every way at the date of this Gazette
notification is published.
05. Salary Segment. - Monthly salary scale of MN 3-2006A
(Rs. 15,005 -4x180 -6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885) as per
Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 (iv) is applicable.
06. Method of Recruitment.- Recruitment will be made subject to
a written competitive examination and a general interview. Eligible
candidates will be selected from a general interview calling an
equivalent number of candidates expected  to be recruited as per the
merit level of total marks scored by the candidates who got through
the written competitive examination.
Written Examination :
Subject Subject Time Maximum Pass
No. (hours) Marks Marks
01 Intelligenet Questions 01 100 40%
02 General Examination 02 100 40%
(Technical and Subject
Oriented Examination)
Name of the Examination Syllabus
Paper
I. Intelligent Questions Consist of multiple-choice and short
(Time 01 hour) answered questions to evaluate the
logical ability of thinking of the
candidates, ability to analyse and judge
time management and questions should
be answered.
II. General Examination Consist of questions that evaluate
(Technical and subject technical knowledge pertaining to
oriented examination repairing vehicles, maintenance of
(Time 02 hours) vehicles, deciding faults in vehicles,
deciding vehicles not in the running
condition, preparation of estimations
on assembling/affixing vehicle spare
parts, fuel burning/consumption in
vehicles, servicing vehicles, insuring
vehicles, accidents and damages caused
to vehicles when running etc. applicable
to the post will be evaluated. All
questions should be answered.
Method of examination and medium of examination. – This
examination is conducted only in Colombo in Sinhala, Tamil and
English media (Number of examination centers will be decided
depending on the number of candidates).
General Interview.– A general interview conducted to examine
whether information furnished in the application submitted by the
candidates are accurate. No marks will be awarded.
07. Conditions of Engagement in Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution
should be made to the widows/widowers and Orphans'
Provident Fund.
(ii) Pr ovisions of section 10 to 12 of Chapter II of the
Establishment Code are applicable.
(iii) Appointments will be made subject to a probationary
period of three years and the departmental examination
should be passed.
(iv) Language requirements as per Public Administration
Circular No. 2007/7 dated 28.05.2007 should be
completed.
08. Identity of the candidates. – Only the candidates submitted
complete application in every way will be called for the general
interview. First copies and properly certified copies of all the
certificates should be submitted at the interview.
Following documents of identity will be accepted at the interview
to prove identity :
1. Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons.
2. Valid Passport.
09. (i) Applications should be submitted by registered post to
reach the following address on or before 11.01.2016
applications received after the due date will be rejected :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Sri Lanka Department of Examination,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
(ii) A copy of the application to be submitted is appeared at
the end of this notification. Candidates themselves should
prepare and complete their application on A4 sheet as
01 to 07 on the first (01) side, 08 to 13 on second (02)
page and 14 to 15 on third (03) page with their own hand
writing. Name of the examination appearing at the top
when preparing the applications should be written in
English as well in addition to writing in Sinhala in Sinhala
applications and in Tamil in Tamil applications.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2528
(iii) "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Post of Transport Officer of the Ministry of Education"
should be appeared in the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application.
(iv) Signature of the applicant should be certified both in the
application and the admission of the candidate. Any
candidate applying from an institution should get their
signature certified by their head of the institution or any
other authorized officer and other candidates should get
their signature certified by either a head of a school, a
Grama Niladhari of a Division, a Justice of Peace, a
Commissioner for Oaths, a Lawyer, a Notary Public, a
Commissioned Officer of armed forces, or a permanent
staff grade officer in the Provincial or Central Government
with a consolidated annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or more
than that.
(v) Officers already in central government or Provincial
Government Service should submit their applications
through the Head of the Department where the candidate
is serving at present.
(vi) Applications not consistent with the specimen
application, have not paid the examination fees prior to
the precise date and not accurately completed or not
complete will be rejected without notice. The candidate
should bear any inconvenience occurred due to
incompletion of applications. Keeping a photocopy of
the application will be useful and the candidate should
see whether the application is in consistent with the
notification of the examination. Otherwise, the
application will be rejected.
(vii) The Commissioner General of Examinations shall issue
admissions to the applications completed accurately with
the certification of the Head of the Institution if the age
limit is accurate sitting for the examination with the
applicable invoice after paying the precise examination
fees on or before the closing date of receiving applications
along with the medium of languages and have the signature
of the applicant and its certification by the Head of the
Department. Issuance of an admission to a candidate for
the examination is not considered as an acceptance that
he or she has filled the qualification to sit the examination.
(viii) The Department of Examinations shall publish a
newspaper notification immediately after the issuance
of admissions for the examination. Any candidate who
did not receive their admission prior to at least five days
before the date of the examiantion stated in the
notification, can make inquiries in that regard from the
Organization and Foreign Examinations branch of the
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, as described
in the advertisement, Name of the Examination the
applicant applied for, name in full of the applicant,
national identity card number and its address should be
indicated accurately when inquiring. If the candidate is
outside from Colomob, it will be successful to inquire of
the above cirumstance along with a fax number that the
admission can be received soon when sending above
particulars. It will be useful to be ready with the copy of
the application in your possession, copy of the invoice
received at the payment of examination fees and invoice
of the postal registration of the application.
(ix) A candidate should appear the examination at the
examination hall reserved for him. Every candidate should
hand over the certified admission to the head of the
examination hall on the day sitting for the examination.
No candidate fail to submit likewise shall be permitted
to sit the examination.
10. Providing false Information.– If you were revealed to have
submitted false or incorrect information in the application you have
sent, your candidature will be cancelled. If revealed of false or incorrect
information after recruitment, you will be dismissed from service
subject to such deed.
11. Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. The invoice
drawn to the name of the candidate in favour of the income head
2003-02-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations by paying
the fee to any post/sub post office in the island should be affixed to
the relevant cage of the application firmly. Keeping a photocopy of
the invoice will be useful. Refunding or transferring fees to another
examination will not be made under no circumstances and no money
orders or stamps will be accepted.
12. The Secretary of Education possesses the right to decide on
any particular point not covered by this notification.
13. In case of any non-conformity among the languages of this
notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and Engish languages, Sinhala
medium notification shall be considered as the accurate document.
W. M. B
ANDUSENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla,
24th November, 2016
(For office use)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
M
INISTRY OF EDUCATION
EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF TRANSPORT OFFICER TO THE
MINISTRY OF EDUCAITON - 2015
Medium of Language for the Examination : Sinhala 2
(write the relevant no : in the cage) T amil 3
English 4

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2529
01. 1.1 Name in full (with block letters in English) :–––––––––––.
(Eg. : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN
KUMARA GUNAW ARDHANA)
1.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of other
names at the end (with block letters in English) :–––––––.
(Eg. : GUNAW ARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
1.3 Name in full (Sinhala/Tamil) :
02. National Identity Card No. :
03. 3.1 Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant No. in the cage)
3.2 Marital Status : Married - 1
Unmarried - 2
(Write the relevant No. in the cage)
04. Address :
4.1 Address to which the admission should be sent (With block
letters in English) :–––––––––––.
4.2 Official Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
4.3 Personal Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
05. Telephone No. :
5.1 Official :–––––––––––.
5.2 Personal :–––––––––––.
06. 6.1 Present post and office station  :–––––––––––.
6.2 Date of appointment to this said post  :–––––––––––.
07. 7.1 Date of Birth :
Year :        Month : Date :
7.2 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
08. Are you a Sri Lankan citizen by descent or by registration ? :
–––––––––––.
09. Educational and Professional Qualifications :
9.1 Education Qualifications :
Examination Year Main subject Pass Name of
appeared for the school
9.2 Professional Qualifications :
Examination Year Main subject Pass Name of the
appeared for Institution
10. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
11. Proficiency in English :–––––––––––.
12. Details of the invoice obtianed paying :
12.1 Examination fees post office that the examination was
paid :–––––––––––.
12.2 Invoice number and date :–––––––––––.
12.3 Paid amount :–––––––––––.
Please paste the invoice from one side to here
13. I do hereby certify the information furnished by me are true and
accurate. I am aware that I will be disqualified for selection if
the information furnished herewith are revealed to have been
false or inaccurate and if revealed after appointment I will be
dismissed from service without compensation. In addition, I do
here state that I will be subject to the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations and
the decisions taken with regard of the issuance of results.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
14. Attestation of signature of the applicant :
This is to attest that .............................. submitting application
herewith for the Post of Transport Officer of the Ministry of
Education is personally known to me, that he pasted the invoice
relevant to the examination fee and placed his/her signature before
me on the .......................... day of ....................... 2015.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Certifying Officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Attestee :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Official stamp should be placed to certify)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2530
15. Certification of the Head of the Department/Institution :
Application of Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. holding the
post of ............................. this establishment, submitting application
for the post of Transport Officer of the Ministry of Education, is
recommended and forwarded herewith. I do hereby certify his/her
work and behavior are satisfactory and no disciplinary actions have
been taken against him/her or have no intention of such actions. She/
he can be/cannot be released from present post if he/she was selected
for this post.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department/Institution.
(Official Stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
12–452
––––––––––––––––
WRITTEN  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICIAL
LANGUAGE  PROFICIENY - 2016
Sinhala/Tamil - Level I/II/III/IV
(Examinations Department of Sri Lanka/Department of
Official Languages)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called for the Official Language
Proficiency Written Examination from Public Officers and the officers
of Co-operations and statutary Institutions in terms of the Public
Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and Management Services
Circular No. 04/2014 respectively.
02. This examination will be held by the Examinations Department
of Sri Lanka. The candidates should obtain marks not less than 40%
of the total to pass this examination. Answer scripts of this
examination shall not be re-corrected. Results of this examinatin will
not be sent to the candidates and the results will be published in the
Departmental website (only those who have passed the written
examination will be allowed to apply for this Oral Examination).
03. Candidates can apply for this examination only through the
departmental website www.languagesdept.gov.lk from 30.11.2015
onwards according to their requirements. Candidates are required to
access the website and follow the steps shown on the screen to fill
the application. Accordingly the Official Language Proficiency
Written examination is held in March and in September for the
applications submitted from 30th November 2015 to 31st January
2016 and for the applications submitted from 01st February 2016 to
31st July 2016 respectively. One candidate shall be allowed to apply
only for one level of one language at a time.
04. Candidates belonging to each service should confirm the
required proficiency level by referring to the Public Administration
Circular No. 01/2014 and Management Services Circular
No. 04/2014. Such Circulars, relevant syllabuses and other relevant
information can be obtained form the above website.
05. If the candidate is a person with special needs, details in that
regard should be mentioend in the application.
06. Every candidate should pay an examination fee of
Rs. 500 from any branch of Bank of Ceylon of the Island so as to
credit it to the account No. 7041541 of the Commissioner of
Official Languages, Bank of Ceylon, Rajagiriya and the number
and the date of such receipt should be written in the relevant
cage of the application.
07. The cities and the numbers of cities of each province in which
the centers of this written examination have been Scheduled to be
established are shown in the Annexe No. 01. In case the number of
candidates applied for an examination center of a certain city found
to be inadiquate, such examination centers will be cancelled and the
candidates will be directed to another examination enter according to
their second/third choices.
08. Immediately after the admission cards are issued to the
candidates, a news paper notice mentioning that will be published
by the Examinations Department of Sri Lanka. If the admission card
is not received even after 02 or 03 days of the newspaper notice, the
candidate should inform the Examinations Department of Sri Lanka
as specified in the notice.
09. Issuance of admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that he or she has fulfilled required qualification to sit for this
examination.
10. A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the
examination hall and for this purpose only the National Identity
Card or a valid passport will be accepted.
11. Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations on
holding of the examination, issuance of results shall be final. Decision
of the Commissioner General of Examinations and/or the
Commissioner of Official Languages regarding any other matters not
mentioned hereof shall also be final.
12. Candidates will be subject to rules and regulations in
examinations procedures imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. A candidate, in case of violation of such rules and
regulations shall be subject to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
13. In case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil and
English exts of this notice, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
W. A. J
AYAWICKRAMA,
Commissioner (Attorney at Law),
Department of Official Languages.
'Bhasha Mandiraya',
No. 341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya,
November, 2015.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2531
WRITTEN EXAMINATION FOR OFFICIAL LANGUAGE PROFICIENY - 2016
SINHALA/TAMIL - LEVEL I/II/III/IV
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATION SRI LANKA/DEPARTMENT OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
District and the District number expected to sit for the examination : District District No.
(Order of preference) 1.
(As per the Annex No. 01 of the notice) 2.
3.
Medium in which the langauge proficiency should be gained Sinhala - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage) T amil - 3
Proficiency Level applied : Level - I - 1
(Please write the number of the proficiency level required to gain) Level - II - 2
Level - III - 3
Level - IV - 4
N.B.– It is compulsory to indicate the language and the language level required to gain proficiency and under no circumstances
the candidates shall be allowed to change it later.
01. Full Name of the candidate (in Sinhala or Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
(Eg. : iurisxy wdrÉÑf.a iuka l=udr iurisxy$rkurpq;` Mur;rpNf rkd;Fkhu rkurpq;`)
02. Full name of the candidate (in English block letters) :––––––––––––––.
(Eg. : SAMARASINGHE  ARACHCHIGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  SAMARASINGHE)
03. Name of the candidate with initials at the end (in English block letters) :––––––––––––––.
(Eg. : SAMARASINGHE S. A. S. K.)
04. Permanent address (in English block letters (Admission card and the results sheet will be posted to this address) :––––––––––––––.
05. District and the District Number of the work place :––––––––––––––.
(Mention the District Number as per the Annexe No. 01 of the notice)
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Gender : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
08. Telephone No. :
09. Emai l :––––––––––––––.
10. Permanent Post :––––––––––––––.
11. Are you a person with special needs ? Yes/No
11.1  If Yes : Deaf - 0
Blind - 1
12. The category you belong to as per the Circular 01/2014 or 04/2014  :––––––––––––––.
13. Examination fee : Rs. ..................... The branch of the bank where the payment made .......................
Receipt No. :
Date of payment :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2015
2532
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
I, hereby declare that the above information furnished by me is true and correct to the best of my knoweldge and I shall be bound
by the examination rules and regulations. I further declare that the decision of the Commissioner of Official Languages in relation to any
matter relevant to the examination shall be final and that I have read and understood all the terms and conditions mentioned in the Gazette
notification relevant to this examination.
Date :––––––––––––––.
 I agree
Annexure 01
DISTRICTS/CITIES AND DISTRICT NUMBERS/CITY NUMBERS OF EXAMINATION CENTERS
Province District District No.
Western Province Colombo 1
Gampaha 2
Kalutara 3
North Western Province Kurunegala 4
Puttalam (Chilaw) 5
Southern Province Galle 6
Matara 7
Hambantota (Tangalle) 8
Sabaragamuwa Province Rathnapura 9
Kegalle 10
Uva Province Badulla 11
Monaragala 12
Central Province Kandy 13
Matale 14
Nuwara-Eliya 15
North Central Province Anuradhapura 16
Polonnaruwa 17
Northern Province Jaffna 18
Vavuniya 19
Mullaitivu 20
Kilinochchi 21
Mannar 22
Eastern Province Trincomalee 23
Batticaloa 24
Ampara 25
12–500