

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1693
1693
wxl 1"624 - 2009 Tlaf;dan¾ 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'10'16
No. 1,624 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1696
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1696
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd October, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th
October, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,623 of  09.10.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1694
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1695
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1696
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Kegalle  District
POSTS OF REGISTRARS - MARRIAGES, BIRTHS AND DEATHS
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 13th November, 200 9.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
16th September, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be Sent
Kegalle Kegalle Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/
Deaths in Kegalle Town Division Addi. Registrar General
District Secretariat, Kegalle
10-429
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Survey Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE TRAINEE GRADE IN THE POST OF
PHOTOGRAMMETRIC TECHNICIANS OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE
THE educational qualifications for recruitment to the Trainee Grade in the post of photogrammetric Technicians, published in the Gazette
of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 25th September, 2009 are revised as follows.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1697
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six subjects in not more than two sittings with credit passes for
Language or Literature, Mathematics, Science and one other subject and the G. C. E. (A/L) examination in three (03)
Science subjects in one and the same sitting including two subjects among the subjects allied with the field, namely Pure
Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Combined Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry ; or
(b) Should posses a National Certificate in Technology (a three year part time training course) relevant to the field, awarded
by a Technical College, recognized by the Government, or have successfully completed the one year full time training
course in Draughtsmanship and obtained the relevant certificate, along with the basic educational qualifications mentioned
in above "(a)".
Note.– Among those who qualify for the Trainee Grade in the Technological service at the Open Competitive Examination,
namely.
(1) The candidates with the qualifications mentioned in the above Para "a" will be placed at the initial salary step within the
salary scale of Grade III after successfully completing and passing the two year theoretical and practical training, gained
according to the syllabus relevant to the service.
(2) The candidate with the qualifications mentioned in the above para "b" will be placed at the initial salary step within the
salary of Grade III after successfully completing and passing the one year theoretical and practical training, gained
according to the syllabus framed relevant to the service.
Accordingly, closing date of applications for the above post has been extended up to 03.11.2009.
The applications already submitted and which do not have the qualifications referred above will be rejected.
S. M. W. F
ERNANDO,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05,
02nd October, 2009.
10–630
––––––––––––––––
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2009
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Posts in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service.
2.0 Candidates who satisfy the prescribed qualifications will be selected on merit, on the results of a written examination to be
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and on the basis of district population ratio, to the posts in the Public
Management Assistants' Service.
3.0 Number of persons to be appointed and effective date of appointments will be determined by the Appointing Authority.
Further, the Appointing Authority reserves the right to refrain from filling some or all of the vacancies.
4.0 Salary.– As per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv), dated 24.08.2007, monthly salary scale entitled to
Class III, II and I of Public Management Assistants' Service is Rs. 13,990 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 - Rs. 23,230. Promotion
to Class II should be obtained to go beyond Rs. 15,440 whilst promotion to Class I will be required to go beyond Rs. 17,310.
5.0 This post is permanent and pensionable.
6.0 Qualifications.– Following qualifications are applicable for the recruitment to posts in Class III of Public Management
Assistants' Service.
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications ;

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1698
(c) Should be of good character ;
(d) Should have fulfilled the following educational qualifications :
(1) Should have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in Six (06) subjects with four
(04) credit passes including Sinhala/Tamil/English Language and Mathematics at one sitting ; and
(2) Should have passed in all subjects other than the Common General Paper and General English at the General
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination at one sitting.
(However, passing in three (03) subjects under the old syllabus at one sitting would be sufficient for this purpose).
It is compulsory to have satisfied all qualifications prescribed for the post by candidates on or before 16th November, 2009.
7.0 Selection on district population basis :
(a) Recruitment to the service will strictly be on a representative basis. A fixed number of vacancies will be set apart for each
district in propotion to its population and in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 15/90. Only the applicants
from a particular district will be entitled to compete for the number of vacancies to be filled in that district.
(i) If the posts so allocated to a particular district are not absorbed by the district, that number of vacancies will be re-
distributed among the adjoining districts within the province.
(ii) If the total number of posts to be filled is few and the district population basis cannot be applied, selection will be
made on the order of merit.
(iii) Where the number of candidates who secure the minimum marks required is less than the number of vacancies
available in a district, the district population basis shall not be applied for the selection.
(b) Eligibility for inclusion in a district.– At least one of the following requirements should have been fulfilled by a candidate
to compete for the vacancies in any district.
(i) The candidate should have been born in the district ;  or
(ii) He should have been a permanent resident of the district at least for three (03) continuous years within the five (05)
years immediately preceding the last date to fulfill the eligibility qualifications for the examination ; or
(iii) He should have received his secondary school education within the district for five (05) continuous years.
(c) In order to confirm the residence of the candidate under b (ii) above, candidate is bound to forward extracts from electoral
registers for a period of three (03) years immediately preceding the closing date of applications and the certificate of
residence issued by Grama Niladhari duly counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.
Note.– 1. If the father/mother of any candidate has been employed in a transferable service of the government or of a
provincial public service or of a state corporation, such candidate will be allowed to choose his own, or his
father's/mother's place of birth as his district. (Candidates are required to forward birth certificates of parents
for this purpose).
2. No candidate will be allowed to compete for vacancies in more than one district. Once a candidate declares a
district of his choice as the most preferred, it should remain irrevocable.
8.0 Three percent (3%) of the existing number of vacancies will be reserved for persons with disabilities. Only 3% of the
persons with disabilities who secure highest marks in the examination and qualify will be selected for appointments.
The minimum level of marks candidates should score to be selected for appointment is 50%. A candidate selected for an
appointment will be referred to a Special Medical Board and by a report obtained from a medical specialist, he/she should estab lish the
disablement and the fact that, it does not hinder performance of duties of the respective post.
9.0 Scheme of the examination.– The examination will consist of two papers. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English media. Candidates will not be allowed to change language medium applied initially.
Marks Durations
(i) Language proficiency 100 1 1/2 hours
(ii) Aptitude 100 1 hour

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1699
Language Proficiency.– This paper will consist of questions designed to test the candidates' ability of expression, comprehension,
spelling and knowledge in the application of the simple rules of grammar.
Aptitude.– This paper will consist of questions designed to test the candidates' skill at figures, power of critical reasoning and
general intelligence.
(These papers will be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)
Despie this being a competitive examination, candidates are expected to secure at least 40% of the marks allocated for each
subject and an aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of the examination. Appointments will strictly be made in the order of the marks
scored, depending on the number of vacancies set apart to be filled on the results of the competitive examination.
10.0 Penalty for furnishing false information. – The candidate should be very careful to include the correct particulars in the
application. If it is found that any candidate is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature
can be cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination. Further, if it is found that any information furnished by  a candidate
is false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public service.
11.0 Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 250. This fee can be paid to any Divisional or District Secretariat to be credited
to revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained should be affixed in the relevant
cage of the application so as not to be detached. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of this receipt with the candidate). Und er no
circumstance the examination fee will be refunded. Money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
12.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in the following manner using a paper of size A4 (21x29cm) (normal
halfsheets).
(a) Paragraphs from 1 to 3 should appear on the first side of the page.
(b) Paragraphs No. 4 onwards should appear on the other pages.
(c) The title of the examination appearing in the specimen should be indicated in English Language as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil application forms.
Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form, will be rejected without any notice.
Applications of those who have not paid examination fees on or before due date will also be rejected. Candidates should be resp onsible
for any loss incurred by them due to incompletences of applications. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure tha t the
application form perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen given in the examination notice and further, it would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
Note.– Candidates are not allowed to change the town in which they apply to sit the examination. At the instances where the
number of candidates apply for a certain town, is not sufficient to hold an examination centre, they will be directed to the town which they
have indicated as second preference. However, if there is not sufficient number of candidates even at the second centre, the candidates will
be directed to an adjoining city.
12.1 All applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees and forwarded their applications on or before the prescribed
date will be allowed to sit the competitive examination, by the Commissioner General of Examinations, on the
presumption that only those who possess qualifications indicated in the Gazette Notification have forwarded their
applications. Issuing of an admission card to a candidate to sit the competitive examination does not mean that the
candidates' eligibility for the post has been accepted. If it is found at the interview that the applicant does not possess
the required qualifications prescribed in the Gazette Notification, his or her candidature will be cancelled.
12.2 The words "Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service -
2009" and the district for which the candidate is competing should be written on the top left-hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is enclosed.
12.3 Candidate's signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an officer holding
a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service whose annual Salary
is Rs. 240,360 or above.
12.4 Applications duly perfected should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 16th
November, 2009.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1700
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Overseas Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
13.0 Sitting the Examination .– A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify  the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. it would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time
of calling the Department of Examinations. i. e. certified photocopies of the application form and the cash receipt kept at your possession,
receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admis sion card
should be sent.
14.0 Candidates should furnish one of the following documents to the Supervisor of Examination in support of their identity :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department for Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
15.0 The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the required qualifications to sit
the examination. Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for  the
purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed by Commissioner General o f
Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
16.0 Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Director General of Combined Services. All candidates are bound to
comply with the general examination rules published in this Gazette.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARA THNA,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
29th September, 2009.
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE – 2009
(Indicate the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
(for office use only)
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the correct number in the cage)
* Indicate the town and the town number in which the candidate intends
to sit the examination as per the Gazette Notification. (See the Schedule II
for the towns where the examination centres are located and for the
respective numbers)
* The district in which you select to compete for vacancies as per District District No.
para 7.0 of the Gazette Notification. (See the Schedule I for the numbers
of districts. Indicate the number and the district in the relevant cage.)
Town Number of
the Town
1.
2.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1701
* Are you sitting this examination under the conditions laid down in para 8.0 of the gazette Y es - 1
notification which are relevant to disability ? (Candidates may refer para 8.0 of the No - 2
Gazette Notification before filling this section.) (indicate the number in the cage)
1.0 Name :–––––––––.
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals) eg. PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in Full :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in Full :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Number of the N.I.C. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex : Female - 1 Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month :  Date :
3.3 Age as at 16.11.2009 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 4.1 Since when you have been residing in the district ? :–––––––––.
4.2 Divisional Secretary's/Assistant Government Agent's Division :–––––––––.
4.3 Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––.
5.0 Educational qualifications :
5.1 Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of Candidate :–––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
5.2 Particulars of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of Candidate :–––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1702
5.3 If possessing a degree from a recognized University :
(i) Name of the University :–––––––––.
(ii) Degree :–––––––––.
(iii) Y ear of Examination :–––––––––.
6.0 Other Qualifications :–––––––––.
7.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of Law ? Y es No
(Indicate 3 in the relevant cage) (Indicate particulars, if the answer is yes)
8.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment was made :–––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––.
(iii) Amount :–––––––––.
Affix the receipt firmly here
9.0 Candidate's Certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I agree
to suffer any loss that may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections and/or provision of erroneous information. I also
state that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment a nd
to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the purpose of holding
this examination.
(d) I shall not change any information mentioned herein subsequently.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
10.0 Atte station of Applicant's Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who submits this application is known to me personally and t hat he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................... and further the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted
the receipt on the applications.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
S
CHEDULE - I
THE LIST OF THE NAMES OF DISTRICTS
District District Number
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1703
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mulativu 12
Vavuniya 13
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25
S
CHEDULE - II
TOWNS WHERE EXAMINATION CENTERS WILL BE LOCA TED
District Town No. of the Town
(01) Colombo Kotahena 01
Maradana 02
Borella 03
Kurunduwatta 04
Bambalapitiya 05
Havelock Town 06
Nugegoda 07
Moratuwa 08
Piliyandala 09
Homagama 10
Maharagama 11
Hanwella 12
Avissawella 13
(02) Gampaha Negombo 14
Minuwangoda 15
Divulapitiya 16
V eyangoda 17
Gampaha 18
Ja-Ela 19
Wattala 20
Kelaniya 21
Dompe 22
(03) Kalutara Ho rana 23
Panadura 24
Kalutara 25
Matugama 26
Aluthgama 27
(04) Matale Matale 28
Galewela 29
Naula 30
Laggala Pallegama 31
District District Number

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1704
(05) Kandy Kandy 32
Katugastota 33
Teldeniya 34
Wattegama 35
Nugawela 36
Galagedara 37
Gampola 38
(06) Nuwara Eliya Hedunuwewa 39
Nuwara Eliya 40
Watumulla 41
Hatton 42
Ginigathhena 43
(07) Galle Ambalangoda 44
Galle 45
Baddegama 46
(08) Matara W eligama 47
Matara 48
Kamburupitiya 49
Hakmana 50
Deiyandara 51
Dikwella 52
Akuressa 53
Kotopola 54
(09) Hambantota Beliatta 55
Walasmulla 56
Weeraketiya 57
Tangalle 58
Ambalantota 59
Hambantota 60
Tissamaharama 61
(10) Jaffna Chavakachcheri 62
Jaffna 63
Thellipallai 64
Point Pedro 65
(11) Mannar Mannar 66
Murukkan 67
(12) Mullativu Mullativu 68
(13) Vavuniya Vavuniya 69
(14) Trincomalee Kantalai 70
Trincomalee 71
Muttur 72
Padavi Parakramapura 73
Kinniya 74
(15) Batticaloa Batticaloa 75
Eravur 76
Kathankudi 77
District Town No. of the Town

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1705
(16) Ampara Ampara 78
Serankada 79
Kalmunai 80
Akkaraeipattu 81
Sammanthurai 82
(17) Puttalam W ennappuwa 83
Madampe 84
Chilaw 85
Puttalam 86
(18) Kurunegala Kuliyapitiya 87
Bingiriya 88
Narammala 89
Polgahawela 90
Kurunegala 91
Ibbagamuwa 92
Dodangaslanda 93
Morathiha 94
Nikaweratiya 95
Maho 96
(19) Anuradhapura Medawachchiya 97
Kekirawa 98
Anuradhapura 99
Galenbindunuwewa 100
Kahatagasdigiliya 101
(20) Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa 102
Hingurakgoda 103
(21) Badulla Bandarawela 104
Welimada 105
Badulla 106
Passara 107
Mahiyanganaya 108
Girandurukotte 109
Hasalaka 110
(22) Monaragala Bibile 111
Monaragala 112
Wellawaya 113
(23) Kegalle Kegalle 114
Rambukkana 115
Mawanella 116
Ruwanwella 117
(24) Ratnapura Eheliyagoda 118
Ratnapura 119
Pelmadulla 120
Balangoda 121
Kalawana 122
Embilipitiya 123
(25) Kilinochchi Kilinochchi 124
Pallai 125
10-521
District Town No. of the Town

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1706
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO
SRI  LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE – 2009
IN this notice "Secretary" means the "Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs",
"Service" means the "Sri Lanka Administrative Service".
1. Written Examination.– The Examination will consist of the following question papers.
(i) General Intelligence
(ii) Essay and Precis
(iii) General Knowledge
(iv) Aptitude for Management
Date of Examination. – This examination will be held in the towns of Colombo (Town No. 01) and Jaffna (Town No. 02) in
January 2010. The town applied initially shall not be allowed to change later on. The Secretary reserves the right to postpone or cancel
this examination subject to instructions given by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
Oral Test.– The Secretary will decide the date for interview for the candidates who sat for all the papers in the written
examination and obtained a higher aggregate of marks as determined by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers as sufficient.
2. Number of persons to be appointed and effective date of appointment will be determined as per the orders of the Public
Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
3. Conditions of Service.– A selected candidate will be appointed to Class III of the service on the general conditions governing
appointments in the Pubilc Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the Minute of the Service dated 28th October, 200 5,
(published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1419/3 of 14th November, 2005) an d
subject to any amendments made or to be made hereafter to the Minute.
3.1 Appointments of candidates who fail to report for duty on the due date and/or refuse or evade to take up duties in a
post or in an area they are appointed to, are liable to be cancelled.
4. Structure and salary scale per month  :
Special Grade - Rs. 42,390 - 12 x 1,310 - Rs. 58,110.
Class I - Rs. 36,755 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
Class II - Rs. 30,175 - 8 x 790 - Rs. 35,705.
Class III - Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - Rs. 29,385.
(Whilst the 1st Efficiency Bar should be passed within 03 years from the date of appointment and 2nd Efficiency Bar within
06 years from the date of appointment, proficiency of the second official language should be achieved within 05 years from the date of
appointment in terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.)
The appointments through this examination will be made to the Class III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
5. Health and Character.– A candidate must satisfy the Secretary that he is duly qualified in respect of health and that he has
an excellent moral character. He must possess good eye sight and he physically fit for service in any part of the island. Selected candidates
will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
6. Eligibility.– A candidate appearing for this must :–
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Have obtained a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission ;
(a) The effective date of the certificate of degree should be 16.11.2009 or a date prior to that.
(iii) Not have reached 28 years of age as at 16.11.2009 ;
(iv) Have a sound moral character and be physically fit ;
(v) No person ordained in any religious sect shall be permitted to sit this examination.
Note :–
(i) No person is allowed to sit the competitive examination for recruitment to Sri Lanka Administrative Service for more
than two sittings.
(ii) Requisite qualifications for this examination should have been completed in every aspect by 16.11.2009.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1707
7. Examination fee. – The fee is Rs. 300. It should be paid before the closing date of applications at any District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-20-13. The receipt obtained from the District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat
should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application form. This fee is nonrefundable. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate.
8. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared by the
candidate himself on paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (A4) using both sides. It should be specially noted that the application
forms should be so prepared that cages 1.0 to 3.11 appear on the first side of the paper and cages 4.0 to 8.0 appear in the
other side of the paper. Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that are not completed in every aspect,
shall be rejected without notice. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with candidate.) It is the
responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies with the
specimen given in the examination notice as otherwise the application may be rejected.
(b) The application should be in the language in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) The completed application form for the examination should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner-
General of Examinations. (Organization and Foreign Examination Branch) Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 16.11.2009.
The words "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative Service – 2009" should be
clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. Any application received after the
closing date will not be accepted. It is essential to mention the name of examination in English Language as well, in
applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil media.
(d) Candidate's signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a jstice
of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, an
Officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in Public Service whose
annual initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
(e) Any application, which is not complete in every aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that an application has
been lost or delayed in post will be considered.
(f) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. A notice will be published in the newspapers by the Department of
Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified
in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations : i. e. a certified photocopy of the application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of
registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission
cards should be sent.
9. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all persons whose applications have been
received. A candidate presenting himself for the examination must produce his admission card to the supervisor of the
examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate must get his signature
attested in advance and hand over the admission card to the supervisor on the first day he presents himself for the
examination. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published in the gazette. Candidates are subjected to rules
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the examination and they are liable
to be subjected to a punishment imposed by him for breach of these rules.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications
to sit the examination.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1708
10. Identity of Candidates. – A candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted :-
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge t hat they are
false, or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
given by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
13. Scheme of Examination – Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English. The language medium of examination indicated initially shall
not be allowed to change subsequently ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying degree examination or in an
offiicial language ;
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying degree examination in more than one language, should sit the
examination in the language in which he passed the majority of subjects at such examination or in an official language ;
(d) Candidate with a special degree who has passed the principal subject in one language and the subsidiary subject in
another language should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the principal subject or in an official
language.
Note :
(i) The term "qualifying degree" in (b) and (c) above refers to the degree qualifications referred to in Paragraph 6 (ii).
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the application.
14. Method of Selection.– A written examination in the following subjects :
(i) General Intelligence - Duration : 1 hour - 100 marks
(ii) Essay and Precis - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
(iii) General Knowledge - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
(iv) Aptitude for Management - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
Candidates should sit all the question papers.
Oral Test (25 marks).
Candidates who have sat all the question papers of the written exam and qualified themselves shall be called for the oral test.
Only the candidates who have scored 40% of marks or above for each of the papers and scored and aggregate of marks above the le vel
determined as sufficient by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers according to the number of vacancies existing, s hall be
called for the interview. If there are a sufficient number of candidates who possess above qualifications, a number equivalent to twice the
number of vacancies shall be called for the oral test. (The scheme of allocating marks shall be approved by the Appointing Auth ority/
Public Service Commission at the early stage of recruitment).
15. The selection for appointment will be made in order of merit from among those who have sat the written examination,
presented themselves for the interview and scored the highest aggregate of marks. (Facing the interview should not necessarily mean that
he or she has fulfilled requisite qualifications to receive an appointment.)
16. The number of appointments to be made shall be determined by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1709
17. Syllabus :
(i) General Intelligence (Duration 1 hour - 100 marks) :
To assess the candidate's capacity for comprehension, qualification and perception of time space relations by measuring
the candidate's inferences and responses to problems presented in verbal, numerical and spatial contexts.
(ii) Essay and Precis (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks) :
To test the candidate's capacity for conceptualization, critical reasoning and his judgmental abilities in the development,
organization and presentation of ideas and information on a topic/theme chosen by the candidate from a given set of
topics/themes and the ability to comprehend a fairly complex passage, a piece of writing or a memorandum and express
the salient ideas thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate's own words.
(iii) General Knoweldge (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks) :
To test the candidate's awareness and understanding of the social, cultural, educational, scientific, political, economic
and any other relevant factors operating at the National, Regional and Global environment or organizations as well as
of our society.
(iv) Aptitude for Management (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks) :
This paper is designed to assess the candidate's aptitude for sound management, as reflected in the candidate's
responses to problems and situations requiring diagnosis and decision making, dealing with interpersonal relations,
communicating and developing policy and strategy and managing self.
On the order of the Cabinet of Ministers.
D. D
ISSANAYAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
30th September, 2009.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT TO THE
SRI  LANKA ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE – 2009
1.0 Medium 2.0 Town
Language medium of examination The town in which the candidate intends to sit the exam
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3 T own No.
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(as per para 1 of gazette notification)
(It will not be allowed to change the town indicated subsequently)
3.0 Personal Information :
3.1 Name with initials :––––––––––. Eg :– SILV A, A. B.
(In English Block Capitals)
3.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
3.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
3.4 Permanent Address (admission card will be posted to this address) :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1710
3.5 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
3.6 Sex :
(Male  -  0,  Female  - 1) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.7 Civil Status :
(Unmarried  - 1,  Married  - 2) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.8 Ethnic group :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,
Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.9 National Identity Card No. :
3.10 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.11 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 (i) State the years in which you sat any previous examinations for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative Service :
(a) ––––––––––––––
(b) ––––––––––––––
(c) ––––––––––––––
5.0 (i) Effective date of the Degree :–––––––––.
(Please read Para 6(ii) of the notification carefully to see whether you are qualified in this respect)
(ii) University/Institute :–––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number :–––––––––.
(iv) Internal/External :–––––––––.
(v) Degree :–––––––––.
(vi) Subjects :–––––––––.
(vii) Class :–––––––––.
(viii) Upper/Lower :–––––––––.
(ix) Index Number :–––––––––.
(x) Language medium of Examination :–––––––––.
6.0 Paste the cash receipt properly here.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate)
7.0 Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given is this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed the receipt No. ..........
dated ................ being the payment of the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examinatio n and any
decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible according
to the regulations of this examination. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner-General of
Examinations as conducting of the exam.
––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––. Signature of Applicant.
8.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature : (Para 8(d) of the Gazette Notification) :
I hereby certify that ....................... (Full name) who submits this application is known to me personally, that he/she p aid the
prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature in my presence on ......... ...........
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer Attesting the Signature :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
10–634

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1711
MINISTRY  OF  HIGHER  EDUCATION
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
PATHWAY FOR THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO THE ADV ANCED TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTES FOR THE ACADEMIC YEAR – 2010
APPLICATIONS are called for the Higher National Diploma and National Diploma Courses conducted by Sri Lanka Institute of
Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) for those who have successfully completed the new or old syllabuses of the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination on or before year 2008.
How to apply.– All duly filled applications prepared according to the specimen application form appeared below should be
directed to the relevant Advanced Technological Institute/Section mentioned in the Section "A", under a registered cover with a  receipt
obtained by crediting of Rs. 250 to the SLIATE Account No. 025-100133397613 at Peoples Bank, Park Street Branch (Colombo) or any
other branch of the Peoples Bank in Sri Lanka. The "course applied" should be clearly stated on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Candidates wish to apply for more than one institute should submit separate applications for each institute applied, while
attaching separate receipt worth Rs. 250 for each of those. Applications of which the money is credited to some other account n umbers
other than the account number mentioned above will be rejected.
The applications received after the closing date will not be entertained.
Addresses of the Advanced Technological Institutes/ATI Sections as well as the courses conducted of those are available in the
Section 'A' and the applicants should select their academic programs from the list given in Section 'B' according to their qual ifications.
Mode of Lectures :
Day/Full time course : During weekdays, daytime
Part Time Courses : During Week ends, day time
Part time courses are confined for those who employed in relevant fields.
Course fees.– No course fees are levied for Day courses. Course fees for Higher National Diploma in English part time students
will be two Thousand Rupees (Rs. 2,000) per a semester. Course fees for 1st and 2nd year Higher National Diploma in Accountancy part
time students will be Two Thousand Rupees (Rs. 2,000) 3rd and 4th year Higher National Diploma in Accountancy part time student s
will be Three Thousand Rupees (Rs. 3,000) per a semester and it is subjected to be revised annually. (Two semesters per year)
Interview.– Short listed applicants will have to either sit for a written test and/or face an interview for the selections. The
Selections of students will be based basically on the Z-Score or the Aggregate marks of the Advanced Level Examination. Date, time and
venue of interview and the necessary documents to be submitted in the interview, will be notified in writing. When the original documents
are not available, certified photocopies will be accepted with the agreement of your submitting the originals at the time of registration for
the academic program.
Hostel Facilities.– Limited number of hostel facilities are available for girls in ATI I Naiwala/Dehiwela and for girls as well as
boys in Ampara Hardy ATI. This facility is only for the full time students and the selection criteria are based on the distance between the
institute and the residence of the student.
SECTION "A"
ADDRESSES, TELEPHONE NUMBERS AND THE CODE NUMBERS OF THE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGICAL
INSTITUTES/A.T.I. SECTIONS
Code Name of the ATI/ATI Section Address T elephone
No. Nos.
01 Advanced Technological Institute, Dehiwala Waidya Road, Dehiwala 011-2714270 011-2738349
02. Advanced Technological Institute, Galle Kaluwella, Galle 091-2244550 091-2223774
03. Advanced Technological Institute, Kandy No. 16, Keppetipola Road, Kandy 081-2226644 081-2232097
04. Advanced Technological Institute, Kurunegala No. 22/1, Wilgoda Road, Kurunegala 037-2224911 037-2229583

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1712
05. Advanced Technological Institute, Badulla Greenland Drive, Badulla 055-2230218 055-2223818
06. Advanced Technological Institute, Jaffna No. 665/5, Beach Road, Jaffna 021-2222595 -
07. Advanced Technological Institute, Naiwala Naiwala, Essalla, Veyangoda 033-2287519 033-2292544
08. Hardy Advanced Technological Institue, Inginiyagala Road, Ampara
Ampara 063-2222056 063-2222056
09. Advanced Technological Institute, Trincomalee Kann iya Road Varodayanagar, Trincomalee 026-2223232 026-2222593
10. Advanced Technological Institute, Labuduwa Siridamma Mawatha, Labuduwa,
Akmeemana 091-2227880 091-2246179
11. Advanced Technological Institute, Kegalle Bandaranayake Mawatha, Kegalle 035-2221297 -
12. Advanced Technological Institute Section, Technical College, New Town,
Anuradahpra Anuradhapura 025-2234417 –
 *13. Advanced Technological Institute Section, No. 14, New Super Market, Ratnapura 045-2230780 –
Ratnapura
14. Advanced Technological Institute Section, Main Street, Samanthurai 067-2261304 067-2261304
Samanthurai
15. Advanced Technological Institute Section, Technical College, Manchantuduwai,
Batticaloa Batticaloa 065-2247519 065-2247519
 *16. Advanced Technological Institute Section, Nautical and Fisheries Engineering 047-2242327 091-2244550
Tangalle College, Mahawela Road, Tangalle
 * Addresses of Rathnapura and Tangalle ATI Section, will be changed on January, 2009
Name of the courses and the code numbers of the Institutes
Name of the Courses Duration Code number of the Institutes
conduct the courses
1. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA  - Day/Full time 4 years 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,9,11,12,14,15
1.1 Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA) - Part time 4 years 1,2,3,4,5,6,9,11,12,13, 14,15,16
2. Higher National Diploma in Management (HNDM) -  Day/Full time 3 years 1,2,3,4,5,6
(English Medium)
3. Higher National Diploma in information Technology (HNDIT) - Day/Full time 2 1/2 years 3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11
(English Medium)
4. Higher National Diploma in Technology - Agriculture (HNDT-Agri) Day/Full 3 years 7,8,10
time (English Medium)
5. Higher National Diploma in English ( HND in English) - Day/Full time 2 years 1,2,3,4,5,6,8,11
5.1 Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) - Part time 2 years 1,2,3,4,5,6,8,9,11,12,14,15
6. Higher National Diploma in Business Studies (HNDBS)- Day/Full time 3 years 1,2,3,5,6
(English Medium)
7. National Diploma in Business Finance (NDBF) - Day/Full time (English Medium) 2 years 1
Note :–
1. Syllabi of all academic programs are being revised. Some academic programs will be commenced in 2010 according to
the revised syllabi and the duration of those courses also may be changed.
2. Medium of instruction of the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy program (Day/Full time) in Sinhala or Tamil
for the first and second years and conducted only on weekdays. Third and fourth years of this academic program are
conducted in weekends and the medium of instructions of its is English.
3. The first and second years of the Higher National Diploma in Management (Day/Full time) course will be conducted
during daytime of the weekdays and the third year will be conducted during the weekend.
4. A pass in the General Paper is compulsory for the applicants qualified in the G. C. E. (A/L) new syllabus.
5. It is considered the Z-score or aggregate marks of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination as the selection criteria to select for
each and every academic program.
Code Name of the ATI/ATI Section Address T elephone
No. Nos.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1713
6. Preference will be given for the candidates passed in subjects or in the field relevant to the academic program.
7. For day courses, it will be given preference for those who are under 22 years.
Those who are registered as an internal student, in any University of Sri Lanka/Affiliated University College, Technical College,
College of Education/Teacher Training College or any other Advanced Technological Institute will not be eligible to register as a Day/Full
time student in Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education. If any student is found following a full time course at any said
government institution concurrently, their registrations in the Sri lanak Institute of Adavanced Technological Education will be cancelled.
It should be noted that the registered as a student in SLIATE will loose the opportunities of registration in any University in  Sri Lanka.
8. For what ever the reason no student will be transferred to any other Advanced Technological Institute after their
selecting for a full time couse in particular ATI or ATI section.
SECTION "B"
QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION TO THE ABOVE COURSES
01. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy HNDA (Day/Full time) should have one of the followings :
(i) G .C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) passes in four subjects of which at least two should be credit passes obtained
at the one sitting with Pure Mathematics or Accountancy as one of the subjects for which a credit pass should have been
obtained ;
Where a credit pass is not available for Mathematics or Accountancy a credit pass obtained for either of these subjects
at G .C.E. (O/L) will be considered as an alternative.
A credit pass in Mathematics at the G . C. E. (O/L) is considered as an alternative for a credit pass in either Pure
Mathematics or Accountancy at the G . C. E. (A/L) ;  or
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (New Syllabus) passes in three subjects at one sitting with Combined Mathematics or
Accountancy as one of the three subjects of which at least, two credit passes should have been obtained.
A credit pass in Mathematics at the G. C. E. (O/L) is considred as an alternative for a credit pass in either Combined
Mathematics or Accountancy at the G. C. E. (A/L) ; or
(iii) Holders of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical Education and
Training ; and
(iv) An ordinary pass in English at the G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
The selection criteria is based on the high marks obtained at the G. C. E. (A/L) examination old syllabus - four subjects
or new syllabus - three subjects.
1.1 Higher National Diploma in Accountancy - HNDA (Part Time) should have one of the followings :
(i) A degree or Intermediate Examination of a recognised university ;
(ii) Four subjects (Old syllabus/three subjects (new syllabus) in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in one sitting ;
(iii) Successfully completion of National Certificate in Accounting Technician, conducted by the Department of Technical
Education and Training.
(iv) Successfully completion of National Certificate in Business Studies (Accountancy Group) conducted by the
Department of Technical Education and Training. Successfully completion of National Certificate in Accounting
conducted by the Department of Technical Education and Training.
N. B.–
(a) Practical Experience – Applicant should be employed in the relevant field in a Government Institution/Public Authority
or a recognised firm.
(b) Those who possess the following qualification will be exempted from the 1st year and will be admitted to the 2nd year
subject to satisfing other entry requirements and availability of places :
(i) National Diploma in Business Studies/Business Finance ;
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Commerce/Management, second year ;
(iii) B. Sc. (Business Administration) ;
(iv) B. Com.
(v) B. Sc. (Accountancy) ;

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1714
(vi) ICASL Part I and II ;
(vii) CIMA Part I and II ;
(viii) AAT Stage III.
2. Higher National Diploma in Management – HNDM (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the followings :–
Pass in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) in all four subjects/G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (new syllabus) in all three
subjects in one sitting, in any stream with ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ; or
National Certificate for Accounting Technicians or National Certificate in Business Studies (Public Administration/Marketing)
conducted by the Department of Technical Education and Training with ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ; or
3.  Higher National Diploma in Information Technology – HNDIT (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the followings :–
(i) Should have obtained four passes at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) at one sitting, one of which
should be out of the following subjects : Physics/Agricultural Science*, Pure Mathematics and Accountancy ; or
(ii) Should have obtained four passes at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) at one sitting, one of which
should be out of the following subjects : Physics/Agricultural Science*, Zoology, Botany, Chemistry ; or
(iii) Should have obtained three passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) at one sitting, one of which
should be out of the following subjects : Physics/Agricultural Science*, Combined Mathematics and Accountancy
; or
(iv) Should have obtained 3 passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (New Syllabus) at one sitting, one of which should
be out of the following subjects : Physics/Agricultural Science*, Biology, Chemistry ; and
(v) An ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination* Agricultural Science (G. C. E.
A/L) – the new syllabus which is implemented from the year 1995.
4. Higher National Diploma in Technology – HNDT (Agriculture) (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the following :–
(i) Should have obtained four passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (old syllabus) in Bio-Science stream at one
sitting, two of which should be out of the following subjects : Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Botany, Zoology and
Physics ; or
(ii) Should have obtained 3 passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (new syllabus) in Bio Science stream at one sitting,
two of which should be out of the following subjects : Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Biology and Physics ; and
(iii) An Ordinary passes for English and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L).
5. Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) – (Full time/Part time)
Should possess one of the following qualifications :–
(i) G. C. E. (A/L) in 3 subjects including English ;
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) in 3 subjects and a pass in English Literature and at least a credit pass (C) in English at G . C. E.
(O/L) ;
(iii) G. C. E. (A/L) in 3 subjects and a distinction pass (A or B) in English Language at the G. C. E. (O/L) ;
(iv) English specialist Teacher Training Certificate or College of Education Diploma for English Teachers ;
(v) A pass at the National Certificate in English for Commerce, Industry and further Education conducted by the
Department of Technical Education and Training with G. C. E. (A/L) three subjects.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1715
6. Higher National Diploma in Business Studies – HNDBS (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the followings :–
(i) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (old syllabus) in Economics, Commerce and Finance and Accountancy or G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in any two of the above three subjects and a pass in one of the following subjects : Political Science,
Pure Mathematics, Geography, Sinhala, Tamil, English, Logic, History, Business Statistic at the same examination ;
or
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (new syllabus) in Economics, Business Studies and Accountancy or G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in any two of the above three subjects and a pass in Georgraphy, Home Economics, Political Science,
Logic and Scientific Methods, Agricultural Science, Combined Mathematics and Business Statistic at the same
examination ; or
(iii) Successfully completion of National Certificate in Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical
Education and Training ; and
(iv) An ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
7. National Diploma in Business and Finance – NDBF (Day/Full time)
Should have one of the followings :–
(i) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (old syllabus) in 04 subjects including Economics, Commerce and Finance, Accountancy
in one sitting ; or
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (new syllabus) in 03 subjects including Economics, Business Studies and Accounting or
any two of the above with one of the following subjects, Geography, Home Economics, Political Science, Logic and
Scientific Methods, Agricultural Science or Combined Mathematics in one sitting ; or
(iii) Successfully completion of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of
Technical Education and Training ; and
(iv) An ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
Note :
1. Tamil medium academic programs are available in Advanced Technological Institutes of Jaffna, Trincomalee,
Sammanthurai, Batticaloa and Dehiwala. And Higher National Diploma in Accountancy Sinhala medium (Day)
academic program is available in Advanced Technological Institute at Trincomalee ;
2. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy Certificate is validated by the Circular No. 46/90 (III) of October, 2008
as equivalent to the Bachelors Degree in Commerce, (Ordinary Pass) awarded by a recognised University ;
3. In Advanced Technological Institute Dehiwala, Conducted the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy part time
program in the mediums of the Sinhala, Tamil and English. In Advanced Technological Institute Kandy Conducted
the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy part time program in the mediums of Sinhala and Tamil.
4. Your order of preference for the academic programs have to be indicated on your choice to be considered for the
admission based on your qualification.
Please note that the decision of the Director-General SLIA TE will be the final decision on the admission of students
to Advanced Technological Institutes/Sections for the academic year 2010.
Closing date of applications : 06.11.2009.
H. T. K
AMAL PATHMASIRI,
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education.
No. 18/2, Ward Place,
Colombo 07,
Web site : 
www.sliate.net

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2009
1716
Office use only  – Course Number ..............................
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
Application Form for Admission to Higher National Diploma/National Diploma Course
Name of the Institute/Institute Section :––––––––––––.
Name of the Course Order of Preference Medium
1 .................................... ................................. .................................
2 .................................... ................................. .................................
3 .................................... ................................. .................................
01. Name with initials :––––––––––.
02. Name/Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
03. Address :––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
Age as at 01.01.2010 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
06. Sex :––––––––––. Male/Female
07. Administrative District :––––––––––. Contact Number :––––––––––.
08. (i) Result of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (in or before 2008) :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––. Medium :––––––––––.
Pass Subjects Grade
1. ...................... .......................
2. ...................... .......................
3. ...................... .......................
4. ...................... .......................
If under new syllabus indicate pass or fail in the general paper :––––––––––.
Aggregate/Average marks or Z-Score of the above examination, issued by the Department of Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Result of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––. Medium :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ........................... ........................... 6. ........................... ...........................
2. ........................... ........................... 7. ........................... ...........................
3. ........................... ........................... 8. ........................... ...........................
4. ........................... ........................... 9. ........................... ...........................
4. ........................... ........................... 10. ........................... ...........................
09. Highest Qualification in English as a subject :––––––––––.
10. Details of Occupation : Date of Appointment :––––––––––.
(only for part time/weekend courses)
Post :––––––––––.
E.P.F. Number :––––––––––.
Place of work and address :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that I am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution. I am aware that my
registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that I concurrently follow a full time cou rse at any
other state institution. I hereby certify that the information furnished here is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
(The bank receipt for Rs. 250 payable to SLIATE should be annexed)
10–557
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.