

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1592
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1578
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"075 – 2018 cqks ui 08 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'06'08
No. 2,075  –  fRiday ,  juNE 08, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th june, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th june, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81288- 5,403 (06/2018)
Note.– Nation Building tax (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of May 25, 2018.
N. B.–   the list of jurors in Polonnaruwa district jurisdiction areas in year 2018 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala 
and tamil languages.
1575

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1576
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service  : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions  : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1577
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1578
Posts – v acant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of marriages (kandyan/General)
 
coLoMBo  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and education and other qualifications related to the subjected division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
09.07.2018.
 Neil D. alwis,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 15th May, 2018.
scheDule
District Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which 
Applications should be sent
colombo dam Street Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) 
of colombo (Kochchikade area) division
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, colombo. 
06–516

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1579
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of marriages (kandyan/General)
 
GaMP aha  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
09.07.2018.
 Neil D. alwis,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 15th May, 2018.
scheDule
District Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which 
Applications should be sent
Gampaha attanagalla Post of Registrar of additional Marriages 
(General) of Siyane Korale West division 
Egodapotha North
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Gampaha. 
06–518

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1580
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of marriages 
(General) in Tamil medium
 
aMP aRa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and education and other qualifications related to the subjected division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
09.07.2018.
 Neil D. alwis,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 23rd May, 2018.
scheDule
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which 
Applications should be sent
ampara Kalmunai t amil Post of Registrar of additional Marriages 
(General) of Karawagupattu division
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, ampara. 
ampara Kalmunai t amil Post of Registrar of Birth and deaths of 
Natpattimunai division and Marriages 
(General) of Karawagupattu division
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, ampara. 
06–517

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1581
REGISTR y Of ThE SuPREmE COuRT
Applications are called from the qualified Sri 
Lankan citizens for the Post of head Peon Grade 
III of Primary Non-Technical Service Category of 
the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka
aPPLicatioNS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to 
select eligible persons for the post of head Peon Grade iii 
of Primary Non-t echnical Service category of the Supreme 
court of Sri Lanka on open basis. applications prepared as 
per the specimen form given at the end of this notification 
should be sent by registered post to Registrar, Supreme 
court, colombo 12 to reach on or before 19.06.2018. the 
words "Recruitment for the post of head Peon, Grade iii 
of Primary Non-t echnical Service category of the Supreme 
court of Sri Lanka" should be clearly stated on the top left-
hand corner of the envelope. applications received after the 
due date will be rejected. y ou should serve in this post till 
the retirement. 
Work Place - Supreme Court - Number of posts 1
1. Method of Recruitment. – candidates who satisfy the 
qualifications shall be appointed for the existing vacancy on 
the order of merit of the results secured at the structured 
interview. 
2. Terms of engagement.– this post is permanent. it 
includes a pension scheme. you are bound by the policy 
decisions of the government which will be taken in the 
future regarding the pension scheme entitled to you.
3. Salary Scale .– as per the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016 the monthly salary 
scale applicable to the Grade iii, ii and i of Primary Non-
t echnical service category is PL-1-2016 - Rs. 24,250 
-10x250 - 10x270 - 10x300 - 12x330 - Rs. 36,410.
4. Qualifications : 
 4.1 Educational Qualifications .– Should pass 06 
subjects including 02 credit passes in G. C. E. 
ordinary Level Examination in not more than 
two sittings. 
 4.2 Vocational Qualifications. – considered as a 
special qualification. 
 4.3 experience.– considered as a special 
qualification. 
5. Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not 
more than 45 years on 19.06.2018. (Maximum age limit is 
not relevant for the permanent pensionable appointees who 
are already in the government service.)
6. Other qualifications : 
 (a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (b) Should be of excellent character and physically 
fit,
 (c) as per the chapter V of the Procedural Rules 
of the Public Service commission, applicant 
should not be an ineligible person in order to 
appoint to the government service. 
Applicants should possess all the qualifications required for 
this post in every respect on or before the closing date of 
applications.
7. Scheme of recruitment.– Recruitment will be made on the 
basis of a structured interview. 
on the approval of the director of combined services, 
eligible applicants will be appointed for the Grade iii of the 
KKS service by strictly following the order of the merits of 
marks obtained by the applicants in a structured interview 
which is held on the same date of the interview to examine 
the basic qualifications of the applicants. Applicants should 
clearly indicate the medium of language they prefer to be 
interviewed and the structured interview will be held in the 
preferred language. 
Structured marking scheme : 
Heads to be tested for 
giving marks
Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
01. additional educational 
qualifications
10
irrelevant
02. V ocational qualifications 20
03. Language knowledge 10
04. computer knowledge 15
05. Experience 40
06. Leadership, personality and 
communication ability as 
approved by the interview 
board
05
t otal 100
Note.– Experience obtained with regard to the post should 
be confirmed by accepted certificates of educational 
qualifications and extra-curricular activities. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1582
8. Official Language :
Language Proficiency to be acquired
01. Official 
language
Officers who have been appointed 
to service in a language other 
than any official language shall 
acquire proficiency of the relevant 
language within the probation 
period.
02. other 
Official 
Language
Language proficiency of relevant 
level should be acquired according 
to the Public administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and other 
consequential circulars complied 
with it. 
9. The applications shall be filled carefully with accurate 
information. if a candidate is found to be ineligible when 
examining qualifications, his candidature is liable to be 
cancelled at any moment. if it is found that an applicant has 
furnished false information at any state he or she is liable to 
be dismissed from the public service. 
10. application forms should be submitted in compliance 
with the specimen form. applications which are incomplete 
and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form, 
will be rejected without any notice. Candidates should 
be responsible for any loss incurred by them due to 
incompleteness of applications. 
11. the words 'Recruitment for the post head Peon 
Grade iii of Primary Non-t echnical Service category of 
the Supreme court' should be written on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
12. all applicants who have submitted their applications 
on or before the due date shall be called for the structured 
interview by the Registrar of the Supreme court, on the 
presumption that only those who possess qualifications 
as indicated in this notification have forwarded their 
applications. Such call for the applicant doesn't mean to have 
accepted that he or she possesses all the qualifications for 
this post. if it was found at the interview that the applicant 
doesn't possess the required qualifications as per the Gazette 
Notification, his or her candidature shall be cancelled. 
13. applicants should furnish one of the following 
documents to the interview Board in support of their identity :
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
for Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) a  valid passport.
14. This appointment will be subject to the Procedural 
rules of the Public Service commission, circulars issued time 
to time regarding the government service and conditions of 
recruitment procedure of primary non-t echnical Service 
category of the supreme court. 
15. any matter not mentioned here will be decided by the 
Public Service commission. all applicants are liable to act 
according to the common rules and regulations mentioned 
in this notification. 
 Registrar - Supreme court. 
Registry of the Suprme court,
24th May, 2018.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN 
RecRuitmeNt to the gRaDe iii of PRimaRy NoN-techNical 
seRvice categoRy
 For office use 
Medium of application : 
 Sinhala - 2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4
Ministry you prefer to serve :–––––––––.
department :–––––––––.
Post which applied for :–––––––––.
 1. Name with initials :–––––––––.
 2. Name in full :–––––––––.
 3. National identity card Number :
 4. Permanent address :–––––––––.
 5. Gender :
  female - 1      Male - 0
 6. date of birth : 
  y ear : Month :  date :
 7. t ele phone :

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1583
 8. Educational Qualifications : 
    (i) Results of the first attempt : 
     y ear :–––––––––––.  Month :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 
    (ii) Results of the second attempt : 
     y ear :–––––––––––.  Month :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
    8.1 Particulars of G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
    (i) y ear and month of the examination :–––––.
 (ii) index Number :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
Subject Grade
 9. Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
 10. Experience relevant to the post :–––––––––––.
 11. Sports and extracurricular activities :
  .................................
  .................................
 12. have you ever been convicted from a court for any 
charges ? 
  (indicate P in the relevant cage) (if yes, give details) 
  y es    No
 13. applicant's declaration :
 (a) i hereby declare that the particulars furnished 
by me in this application are true and accurate 
to the best of my knowledge. i agree to bear 
any loss incurred due to not completing some 
sections of the application. further, i declare that 
all the sections of this application are completed 
correctly.
 (b) i am aware that if the declaration made by me is 
found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service 
if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 
 (c) i will not change any of the information furnished 
here. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
06–542
–––––––––––––––––––
COmmISSION TO INvESTIGATE 
ALLEGATIONS Of bRIbERy OR 
CORRuPTION 
Recruitment to the Posts of Corruption Prevention 
Officers of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of bribery or Corruption - 2018
hEREBy notified that the structured interview to recruit 
suitable candidates for 50 (fifty) vacancies in the post 
of Corruption Prevention Officer of the Commission to 
investigate allegations of Bribery or corruption will be held 
during the month of august 2018 by the director General 
of the commission to investigate allegations of Bribery 
or corruption. Persons interested in applying for this post 
should send their duly filled applications as per the specimen 
at the end of this notification under registered cover to reach 
“director General, commission to investigate allegations 
of Bribery or corruption, No.36, Malalasekara Mawatha, 
colombo 07.’’ on or before 11.07.2018. the top left hand 
corner of the envelope containing the application should 
indicate “Recruitment to the Posts of corruption Prevention 
Officers”. 
(a) closing date of application – 11.07.2018
Note: complaints with regard to the losses or 
delays of any application or any related document 
in the post will not be considered. Losses incurred 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1584
by failure to submit application on the due date 
must be borne by the applicant.    
01. Mode of recruitment.–   Eligible applicants will be 
recruited for the vacancies according to the order of marks 
on merit of a qualification assessment interview achieved 
by each candidate and the vacancies available. Number of 
existing vacancies are 50.
1.1. Preferred language for the interview should be 
clearly mentioned in the application and the 
structured interview will be held in the same 
medium of language as mentioned.   
02. Terms of employment : 
o this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contributions should be made to the Widows’ 
and orphans’/Widowers’ and orphans’ 
contributory Pension Scheme. (Should be 
subjected to the future policy decisions of the 
government on pension scheme.) 
o Officers appointed to this post should be 
subjected to a probation period of three (03) 
years and the first efficiency bar examination 
should be passed during three (03) year 
probation period. 
o The second efficiency bar should be passed 
before lapse of three (03) years after 
promoting to Grade II, the third efficiency bar 
examination should be passed before lapse of 
five (05) years after promoting to Grade I.
o in terms of Public administration circular 
No.07/2007 and 01/2014 and incidental 
circulars thereto the relevant proficiency in 
other official languages should be acquired 
within five (05) years. 
o This appointment is subject to the Procedural 
Rules of Public Service commission, 
Establishment code of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Public 
financial Regulations, other regulations of the 
commission, circulars issued time to time by 
the government. 
03. Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale of the post: 
Rs.31,490 -10x445 -11x660 -10x730 -5x750 - Rs.54,250. 
(Salary code- MN4- 2016)
this salary scale is effective from 01.01.2020. the basic 
salary from 01.01.2018 is Rs.24,980/- and an adjustment 
allowance of Rs.3,278/- is payable. 
04. Qualifications .– Educational Qualifications:- 
• Should posses a degree from a University 
approved by the university Grant commission. 
age Limit:  the applicant should not be 
less than 21 years and not more than 35 years 
of age as at 11.07.2018. (accordingly, the 
persons born on or before 11.07.1997 and on 
or after 11.07.1983 are eligible to apply to this 
post.)
Physical Qualifications.– Should be physically 
and mentally fit to serve in any part of the 
island and to execute the duties of the post.
Other Qualifications :
o Should be a Sri Lankan citizen 
o have an excellent character
o applicant or any member of the family should not 
be found guilty for criminal charges under the law 
of Sri Lanka 
o the applicants should have achieved all 
qualifications required to recruit to the post as at the 
due date mentioned in the Gazette notification. 
o a  security clearance report will be called on all 
selected applicants to examine the suitability of 
each person to serve in the commission.
05. Method of recruitment. – Through a qualification 
assessment interview will be conducted by the director 
General of the commission to investigate allegations  of 
Bribery or corruption. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1585
Marking scheme of the qualification assessment interview.
Fields of assessment Maximum 
marks 100
Minimum 
marks for the 
selection 
Language proficiency
•	 Post Graduate degree in any language apart from mother language – 20 Marks
•	 degree in any language apart from mother language – 15 Marks
•	 diploma in any language apart from mother language conducted by an university 
approved by the university Grant commission or by a government approved institute 
– 10 Marks
•	 Certificate course in any language apart from mother language conducted by an 
university approved by the university Grant commission or by a government 
approved institute – 05 Marks
(should be in addition to the Degree qualification required for the post)     
20 Not applicable
 
Computer literacy 
•	 Information Technology as a main subject of a Degree from an University approved 
by university Grant commission – 15 Marks
•	 diploma course in information t echnology with a course duration of not less than 
06 months from a government approved institute – 10 Marks
•	 Certificate Course in Information Technology with a course duration of not less than 
03 months from a government approved institute – 05 Marks 
(should be in addition to the Degree qualification required for the post)     
15
Additional Education Qualifications and other qualifications  
•	 Post Graduate degree from an university approved by the university Grant 
commission – 20 Marks
•	 Post Graduate diploma from an university approved by the university Grant 
commission – 10 Marks
•	 Certificate Course with a course duration of not less than one year from a government 
approved institute – 05 Marks
(should be in addition to the Degree qualification required for the post)     
20
Research assignments and experience in subject analysis 
Research assignments and subject analytical reports submitted apart from a requirement 
of the Degree qualification requested for the post – 10 Marks per 1 assignment or report 
(maximum 20 Marks) 
20
Extracurricular activities 
National level sports and other skills – 20 Marks
Provincial level sports and other skills – 10 Marks
district level sports and other skills – 05 Marks
20
Skills shown at the interview 
considering the attitudes and communication skills of the candidate, marks will be given on 
the discretion of the interview board   
05
01. The application should be prepared using 22-29cm size, A4 sheets denoting 01-07 headings on first page. The 
details of the application should be dully filled by own hand writing of the applicant. Incomplete applications and 
the applications not in accordance with the specimen will be rejected without any notification. It is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the application with the candidate. it is the responsibility of the candidate to verify that the 
perfected application complies with the specimen given in the notification, as otherwise, the application may be 
rejected. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1586
6.1 Identity of the candidate   :
candidates must provide one of the following 
documents to the interview board to prove the 
identity. 
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a  valid passport.
the candidates are bound to produce any of the 
following documents at the interview or any other 
requested time. 
 (i) Educational certificates 
 (ii) Birth certificate
 (iii) National identity card
 (iv) certificates of experience 
 (v) Two character certificates (one should 
be issued by the Grama Niladhari 
countersigned by the divisional Secretary) 
N.B.  * applications of the candidates who fail to 
produce documents when requested to do so will 
be not considered. 
07. the Signature of the applicant in the application 
should be attested. an applicant applying through an 
institution should get the signature attested by the head 
of the Institution or an officer authorized by him and 
other applicants should get their signatures attested by a 
Principal / retired officer, Grama Niladhari of respective 
division, a commissioner for oaths, an attorney-at-
Law, a Notary Public, a Commissioned Officers of Three 
Forces, a permanent officer in public service who draws an 
annual salary above Rs.415,260/- or the chief incumbent 
of a Buddhist temple or a Nayaka Buddhist Monk, the 
incumbent of a place of worship of any other religion or a 
religious dignitary of standing of any other religion. 
08. Calling for the qualification assessment interview 
should not be considered as the candidate has fulfilled the 
qualifications required for the post. 
09. This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules 
of Public Service commission, circular regulations issued 
from time to time on public service, service minute and the 
amendments imposed.
10. The final decision of filling or non-filling all vacancies 
or part thereof shall be reserved by the appointing authority.   
11. in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this notice, the Sinhala text will 
prevail. 
  saRath JayamaNNe, Pc
  director General.
commission to investigate allegations of Bribery or 
 corruption,
No.36, Malalasekera Mawatha, 
colombo 07,
on this 31st day May, 2018.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
RecRuitmeNt to Post of coRRuPtioN PReveNtioN officeRs 
of the commissioN to iNvestigate allegatioNs of BRiBeRy 
oR coRRuPtioN - 2018
Language medium preferred for the interview :
2. Sinhala
3. t amil
4. English  
 1. Name indicating last name first and initials of other 
names at the end:-
  (in English block capital letters)
  eg. : NiMaL a.B.c.d.  :––––––––––––.
 2. Names denoted by initials: (in English block capital) 
:––––––––––––.
 3. full name (Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––––.
 4. (i)  Permanent address in English capital letters: 
(admission card will be sent to this address)  : 
––––––––––––.
  (ii)  Official address: (If in Public Service) :–––––––––.
    National identity card No.:   
 6. Sex :   Male - 0
     female  - 1
 7. Ethnicity:  
 
    (Sinhalese– 1, tamil– 2, indian tamil– 3, Muslim– 4, 
other– 5)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1587
 8. date of birth :
  y ear  Month date
  age as at 21.06.2018 :   
  y ears  Months  days      
  contact No. : 
  Mobile: 
  
  fixed:
 10. Educational Qualifications:
  G.c.E.(ordinary Level)
Subject Grade
  G.c.E.(advanced Level)
Subject Grade
 11. degree :––––––––––––.
  university :––––––––––––.
  details of the degree :––––––––––––.
  Other qualifications:
  1. ……………………..
  2. ……………………..
  3. …………………….. 
 12. Have you ever been subjected to dismissal from public 
service or vacation of post:
  y es/ No :––––––––––––.
 13. have you ever been punished by a court of Law for 
any offence? y es/ No :––––––––––––.
  if yes, furnish relevant information :––––––––––––.
i do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in 
the application are true and correct. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect 
before selection, I am subject to be disqualified or dismissed 
from the service without any compensation if it is revealed 
after selection.
    
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant’s Signature :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …....…… of……………. 
is personally known to me and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on this ………......…day 
of………2018.
    
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature.
Name and designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
Official Frank :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
If the applicant is in public service:-
Certification of the Head of the Department 
i certify that the Mr/Mrs/Miss ………………………….
serves in this department and he/she can/cannot be released 
from his/her present post if he/she is selected. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of the department.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
department :––––––––––––.
06–625

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1588
COmmISSION TO
 INvESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS Of bRIbER y 
OR CORRuPTION 
Recruitment to the Posts of Legal Assistant of the 
Commission to Investigate Allegations of bribery 
or Corruption - 2018
hEREBy notified that the structured interview to recruit 
suitable candidates for 17 (seventeen) vacancies in the 
post of Legal assistant of the commission to investigate 
allegations of Bribery or corruption will be held during 
month of august 2018 by the director General of the 
commission to investigate allegations of Bribery or 
corruption. Persons interested in applying for this post 
should sent their duly filled applications as per the specimen 
at the end of this notification under registered cover to reach 
‘’director General, commission to investigate allegations 
of Bribery or corruption, No.36, Malalasekara Mawatha, 
colombo 07.’’ on or before 11.07.2018. the top left hand 
corner of the envelope containing the application should 
indicate “Recruitment to the Posts of Legal Assistant”. 
(a) Closing date of application.– 11.07.2018
Note: complaints with regard to the losses or delays 
of any application or any related document in 
the post will not be considered. Losses incurred 
by failure to submit application on the due date 
must be borne by the applicant.    
01. Mode of recruitment.–   Eligible applicants will be 
recruited for the vacancies according to the order of marks 
on merit of a qualification assessment interview achieved 
by each candidate and the vacancies available. Number of 
existing vacancies are 17.
1.1. Preferred language for the interview should be 
clearly mentioned in the application and the 
structured interview will be held in the same 
medium of language as mentioned.
02. Terms of employment : 
o this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contributions should be made to the Widows’ 
and orphans’ / Widowers’ and orphans’ 
contributory Pension Scheme. (Should be 
subjected to the future policy decisions of the 
government on pension scheme.) 
o Officers appointed to this post should be 
subjected to a probation period of three (03) 
years and the first efficiency bar examination 
should be passed during three (03) year 
probation period. 
o The second efficiency bar should be passed 
before lapse of three (03) years after 
promoting to Grade II, the third efficiency bar 
examination should be passed before lapse of 
five (05) years after promoting to Grade I.
o in terms of Public administration circular 
No.07/2007 and 01/2014 and incidental 
circulars thereto the relevant proficiency in 
other official languages should be acquired 
within five (05) years. 
o This appointment is subjected to the Procedural 
Rules of Public Service commission, 
Establishment code of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Public 
financial Regulations, other regulations of the 
commission and the circulars issued time to 
time by the government. 
03. Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale of the post: 
Rs.31,490 -10x445 -11x660 -10x730 -5x750 - Rs.54,250. 
(Salary code- MN4- 2016)
this salary scale is effective from 01.01.2020. the basic 
salary from 01.01.2018 is Rs.24,980/- and an adjustment 
allowance of Rs.3,278/- is payable. 
04. Qualifications.– Educational Qualifications:- 
• Should posses a Degree in Law from a 
university approved by the university Grant 
commission. 
Age Limit.– the applicant should not be less 
than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age 
as at 11.07.2018. (accordingly, the persons 
born on or before 11.07.1997 and on or after 
11.07.1983 are eligible to apply for this post.)
Physical Qualifications.– Should be physically 
and mentally fit to serve in any part of the 
island and to execute the duties of the post.
Other Qualifications :
o Should be a Sri Lankan citizen ;
o have an excellent character ;

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1589
o applicant or any member of the family should not be found guilty for criminal charges under the law of 
Sri Lanka 
o The applicants should have achieved all qualifications required to recruit to the post as at the due date 
mentioned in the Gazette notification. 
o a  security clearance report will be called on all selected applicants to examine the suitability of each 
person to serve in the commission.
05. Method of recruitment.– Through a qualification assessment interview conducts by the Director General of the 
commission to investigate allegations of Bribery or corruption. 
Marking scheme of the qualification assessment interview :
Fields of assessment Maximum 
marks 100
Minimum marks 
for the selection 
Language proficiency
•	 Post Graduate degree in any language apart from mother language – 20 Marks
•	 degree in any language apart from mother language – 15 Marks
•	 diploma in any language apart from mother language conducted by an university 
approved by the university Grant commission or by a government approved 
institute – 10 Marks
•	 Certificate course in any language apart from mother language conducted by an 
university approved by the university Grant commission or by a government 
approved institute – 05 Marks
(should be in addition to the Degree qualification required for the post)     
20 Not applicable
 
Computer literacy 
•	 Information Technology as a main subject of a Degree from an University approved 
by university Grant commission – 15 Marks
•	 diploma course in information technology with a course duration of not less than 
06 months from a government approved institute – 10 Marks
•	 Certificate Course in Information Technology with a course duration of not less than 
03 months from a government approved institute – 05 Marks 
(should be in addition to the Degree qualification required for the post)     
15
Additional Education Qualifications and other qualifications  
•	 Post Graduate degree from an university approved by the university Grant 
commission – 20 Marks
•	 Post Graduate diploma from an university approved by the university Grant 
commission – 10 Marks
•	 Certificate Course with a course duration of not less than one year from a government 
approved institute – 05 Marks
(should be in addition to the Degree qualification required for the post)     
20
Research assignments and experience in subject analysis 
Research assignments and subject analytical reports submitted apart from a requirement 
of the Degree requires as a qualification for the post – 10 Marks per 1 assignment or report 
(maximum 20 Marks) 
20
Extracurricular activities 
National level sports and other skills – 20 Marks
Provincial level sports and other skills – 10 Marks
district level sports and other skills – 05 Marks
20
Skills shown at the interview 
considering the attitudes and communication skills of the candidate, marks will be given 
on the discretion of the interview board   
05

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1590
01. the application should be prepared using                             
22-29cm size, a4 sheets denoting 01-07 headings 
on first page. The details of the application should 
be dully filled by own hand writing of the applicant. 
incomplete applications and the applications not 
in accordance with the specimen will be rejected 
without any notification. It is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the application with the candidate. 
it is the responsibility of the candidate to verify 
that the perfected application complies with the 
specimen given in the notification, as otherwise, 
the application may be rejected. 
6.1 Identity of the candidate :
candidates must provide one of the following 
documents to the interview board to prove the 
identity. 
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons
 (ii) a  valid passport    
the candidates are bound to produce any of the 
following documents at the interview or any other 
requested time 
 (i) Educational certificates 
 (ii) Birth certificate
 (iii) National identity card
 (iv) Certificates of experience 
 (v) Two character certificates (one should 
be issued by the Grama Niladhari 
countersigned by the divisional Secretary) 
N.B.  * applications of the candidates who fail to 
produce documents when requested to do so 
will not be considered. 
07. the Signature of the applicant in the application 
should be attested. an applicant applying through an 
institution should get the signature attested by the head 
of the Institution or an officer authorized by him and 
other applicants should get their signatures attested by a 
Principal / retired officer, Grama Niladhari of respective 
division, a commissioner for oaths, an attorney-at-Law, a 
Notary Public, a Commissioned Officers of Three Forces, 
a permanent officer in public service who draws an annual 
salary above Rs.415,260/- or the chief incumbent of a 
Buddhist Vihara or a Nayaka Buddhist Monk, the incumbent 
of a place of worship of any other religion or a religious 
dignitary of standing of any other religion. 
08. calling for the qualification assessment interview 
should not be considered as the candidate has fulfilled the 
qualifications required for the post. 
09. This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules 
of Public Service commission, circular regulations issued 
from time to time on public service, service minute and the 
amendments imposed.
10. The final decision of filling or non-filling all vacancies 
or part thereof shall be reserved by the appointing authority.   
11. in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this notice, the Sinhala text will 
prevail.  
  saRath JayamaNNe, Pc
  director General.
commission to investigate allegations of Bribery or 
corruption,
No.36, Malalasekera Mawatha, 
colombo 07,
on this 31st day May , 2018.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
RecRuitmeNt to the Post of legal assistaNt of the 
commissioN to iNvestigate allegatioNs of BRiBeRy oR 
coRRuPtioN - 2018
Language medium preferred for the interview :
2. Sinhala
3. t amil
4. English  
 1. Name indicating last name first and initials of other 
names at the end:-
  (in English block capital letters)
  eg. : NiMaL a.B.c.d.  :––––––––––––.
 2. Names denoted by initials: (in English block capital) 
:––––––––––––.
 3. full name (Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––––.
 4. (i)  Permanent address in English capital letters: 
(admission card will be sent to this address)  : 
––––––––––––.
  (ii)  Official address: (If in public service) :–––––––––.
    National identity card No.:   

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1591
 6. Sex :   Male - 0
     female  - 1
 7. Ethnicity:  
 
    (Sinhalese– 1, tamil– 2, indian tamil– 3, Muslim– 4, 
other– 5)
 8. date of Birth :
  y ear  Month date
  age as at 11.07.2018 :   
  y ears  Months  days      
 9. contact No. : 
  Mobile: 
  
  fixed:
 10. Educational Qualifications:
  G.c.E.(ordinary Level)
Subject Grade
  G.c.E.(advanced Level)
Subject Grade
 11. degree in Law :––––––––––––.
  university :––––––––––––.
  details of the degree :––––––––––––.
  Other qualifications:
  1. ……………………..
  2. ……………………..
  3. …………………….. 
 12. Have you ever been subjected to dismissal from public 
service or vacation of post:
  y es/ No :––––––––––––.
 13. have you ever been punished by a court of Law for 
any offence? y es/ No :––––––––––––.
  if yes, furnish relevant information :––––––––––––.
i do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in 
the application are true and correct. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect 
before selection, I am subject to be disqualified or dismissed 
from the service without any compensation if it is revealed 
after selection.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant’s signature :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …....…… of……………. 
is personally known to me and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on this …………day 
of……...........…2018.    
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature.
Name and designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
Official Frank :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
Note.– the signature of the applicants in Public Service 
should be attested by the head of the department or by 
an authorized officer.
If the applicant is in public service:-
Certification of the Head of the Department 
i certify that the Mr/Mrs/Miss ………………………….
serves in this department and he/she can/cannot be released 
from his/her present post if he/she is selected. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of the department.
date :––––––––––––;
Name :––––––––––––;
designation :––––––––––––;
department :––––––––––––.
06–626

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1592
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTR y Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND 
INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
        
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of   Public health management 
Assistants’ Service - 2018
1.0 it  is hereby notified that the Open Competitive 
Examination for recruitment to Grade iii of Public health 
Management assistants' Service will be held by the 
Secretary of the Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine.
2.0 (a)  In order to fill the vacancies mentioned in 
Schedule iii, candidates who satisfy the 
prescribed qualifications will be selected on 
merit, after conducting interview to confirm 
the qualifications, as per the results of a written 
examination to be conducted by the Secretary 
of the Ministry of health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine and on the basis of district 
population ratio to the posts in the Grade iii of 
Public health Management assistants' Service. 
the candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the 
Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine. His decision will be the final. The 
rules of the examination for the candidates are 
separately mentioned in the Gazette Notification.  
 (b)  Number of persons to be appointed and effective 
date of appointments will be determined by the 
appointing authority. further, the appointing 
authority reserves the right to refrain from 
filling some or all of the vacancies.
3.0 medium in which candidates should sit for 
the Examination : this examination will be held in 
Sinhala, t amil & English languages. candidates may sit 
this examination in only one language medium of their 
preference. candidates will not be allowed to change the 
language medium subsequently.
4.0 Conditions of Service :
 (i) Selected candidates shall be appointed to 
a post in Grade iii  of the Public health 
Management Assistants' Service, subject to 
general conditions governing the appointments 
in the Public Service, terms and conditions 
set out by the Public health Management 
assistants' Service Minute published in the 
Gazette extraordinary of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2053/18 dated 
09.01.2018, amendment which will be made 
thereto in due course to the said Service Minute, 
provisions of the Establishments code and 
financial Regulations and Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service commission published in 
the Gazette extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 
20.02.2009. 
 (ii) This appointment is subject to a probation 
period of three (03) years. The First Efficiency 
Bar Examination shall be passed by the officer 
within a period of 03 years after recruiting to 
Grade iii of the Public health Management 
assistants' Service as prescribed in the Service 
Minute and it is a condition to confirm in the 
post.
 (iii) candidates who receive appointments on the 
results of the examination will be liable to  
posted to any station in Sri Lanka and they 
would not be given the present work station, 
for whatever the reason.
 (iv) The officer shall compulsorily serve at the 
service station to which he / she is appointed 
at first for three (03) years. However, the 
appointing authority reserves the right to 
transfer any officer before the lapse of said 
period, on special reasons as determined by the 
same, if it is required to make such transfer.
 (v) Official language - Officers who have been 
appointed to service in a language other than 
any official language shall acquire proficiency 
in one of the official languages before 
confirmation in the service.
  
  Other Official Language - Proficiency in the 
Second Official Language should be achieved 
before lapse of 05 years from the date of 
appointment in terms of the provisions of 
Public administration circular 01/2014 and 
circulars consequent to it.
 (vi) The general hours of work of the officers in the 
Public health Management assistants’ Service 
are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m. in all days of 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1593
    7.2. Educational Qualifications :
 (1) Shall have passed 06 subject with four (04) 
credit passes including Sinhala or tamil or  
English Language and Mathematics at the 
G.c.E. (ordinary Level) Examination at one 
sitting 
And
 (2)  Shall have passed all the subjects in G.C.E. 
(advanced Level) Examination at one sitting 
(except the General Paper). Passing three 
(03) subjects under the old syllabus at one 
sitting would be sufficient for this purpose.
Note.– It is compulsory to have satisfied all 
qualifications prescribed for the post by candidates 
on or before 30.04.2018. 
8.0   Selection on district Population Basis : 
 (a) district Name list is indicated as Schedule i. the 
district selected to compete for vacancies and its 
number should be mentioned in the application 
correctly according to the Schedule i.
 (b) Recruitment to the service shall strictly be on a 
representative basis. A fixed number of vacancies 
shall be set apart for each district in proportion 
to its population. only the applicants from a 
particular district shall be entitled to compete for 
the vacancies to be filled in said district.
 (i) at the instances where it is not possible to 
fill the number of vacancies allocated to a 
particular district by the qualified candidates 
applied for the same district, that number of 
vacancies shall be re-distributed among all 
the adjoining districts, in proportionate to the 
population of such districts.
 (ii) If the total number of posts to be filled is few 
and the district’s population basis cannot be 
applied, selection shall be made in the order of 
the merit.
 (iii) Where the number of candidates who secure 
the minimum marks required is less than the 
number of vacancies available in a district, the 
district population basis shall not be applied 
for selection.
the year. however the above time may vary on 
the service exigency and nature of the duty. it is 
compulsory to be on night duty and the officers 
may be ordered to do additional work. and 
also, the Public health Management assistants 
are subject to be on duty on 365 days of the 
year.
 (vii) Officers discharging the duties required by the 
Secretary of the Ministry of health, Nutrition  
and Indigenous Medicine shall finish a security 
of Rs. 5,000.
 (viii) On service exigency officers serving in Health 
institutions and hospitals may be called upon 
to work on Saturday and Public holidays.  
they are eligible overtime or holidays pay or 
leave in lieu for each such day.
5.0 Salary : Monthly Salary Scale applicable for 
the Grade iii, ii and i of the Public health Management 
assistants' Service, as per the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 :  Rs. 28,940 
-10x300 -11x350 -10x560 -10x660 - Rs. 47,990 and the 
said salary is entitled to you from 01.01.2020. Salary will 
be paid from the effective date of the appointment as per the 
provisions of Schedule II of said circular. Officers should 
obtain promotion to Grade ii and Grade i to go beyond the 
salary point of Rs. 31,940 and Rs. 35,790 respectively. in 
addition, you are entitled to other allowances paid to the 
public officers by the Government from time to time.
6.0 This post is permanent and pensionable. It is subject 
to the policy decision to be taken by the Government in 
the future relating to the pension scheme. Officers must 
contribute to the "Widows and orphans" Pension fund / 
“Widowers & Orphans” Pension Fund from their salary, as 
per the decisions taken by the government in timely manner. 
7.0. Candidates should be satisfied following 
qualifications to apply for the post.
  
  7.1.  Basic Qualifications :
 (a)  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b)  Should be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age on the closing date of 
applications.
 (c)  Should be of an excellent character.
 (d)  Shall be of an excellent moral character and 
physical fitness to serve at any part of the island.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1594
 (c)  Eligibility for inclusion in a district : at least one 
of the following requirements shall be fulfilled by 
a candidate to compete for the vacancies in the 
district.
 (i) the candidate should have been born in 
the district, 
  or
 (ii) he shall have been a permanent resident 
of the district at least for three (03) 
continuous years within the five (05) 
years immediately preceding the last date 
to fulfill the eligibility qualifications for 
examination, 
  or
 (iii) he shall have received secondary school 
education within the district for five (05) 
continuous years.
Note.– if the father / mother of any candidate has 
been employed in a transferable service of the 
Government or of a Provincial Public Service or 
of a State corporation, then such candidate shall 
be permitted to choose his father’s / mother’s 
place of birth as his district. (at the interview 
or any time candidates are required to forward 
documents to prove the place of birth of the 
parents and that they are public servants).
In order to confirm the residence of the candidate who 
is selected from the written examination, he / she 
is bound to forward following documents, at the 
interview or any time inquired.
 (i)  Birth Certificate.
 (ii) Extracts from electoral registers confirming 
the residence in continues three (03) years 
period and the certificate of residence issued 
by Grama Niladari duly counter signed by 
the divisional Secretary.
 (iii)  Student Performance Report 
 (iv)  No candidate will be allowed to complete 
for vacancies in more than one district. once 
a candidate declares a district of his choice 
as the most preferred, it should remain 
irrevocable.
9.0.  Examination Procedure :
 (a)  the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English media. candidates may sit this 
examination in only one language medium of their 
preferences and should answer for the question 
papers using that language medium. candidates 
will not be allowed to change language medium 
applied initially. the examination will consist of 
two papers.
  marks  Duration
         (I)   Language Proficiency 100 2 ½ Hours 
        (ii)  aptitude 100  1 hour
Language Proficiency : the question paper shall 
consist of subject related question designed 
to test the candidate’s ability of expression, 
comprehension, spellings, language and 
essay, drafting a given letter, making graph 
based on the given data, summarizing 
passages, expressing the idea of several 
given sentences in one sentence and  use of 
simple grammar.
 Aptitude : This paper shall consist of subject 
related questions designed to test the 
candidates’ skill at numbers, power of critical 
reasoning and general intelligence.
 Note :- 
 (a)  these papers shall be designed to test the 
aptitude and ability of the candidates to 
perform his official duties.
 (b)  Marks will be deducted for unclear 
handwriting and spelling mistakes in all the 
written question papers.
 (c)  despite this being a competitive examination, 
candidates are expected to secure at least 
40% of the marks allocated for each subject 
and an aggregate of at least 50% of the total 
marks of the examination. appointments 
will strictly be made in the order of merit 
based on the total marks scored, depending 
on the number of vacancies set apart to 
be filled on the results of the competitive 
examination.
 (d)  examination Results.– issuance of results 
to  candidates will be made by the Secretary 
of the Ministry of health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine via the official website 
www.health.gov.lk.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1595
10.0. Penalty for Furnishing False Information : 
candidates should take care to furnish correct information 
when filling the application form. As per the rules and 
regulations of the examination, the candidature of any 
applicant may be cancelled prior to, during or after 
the examination, if his / her ineligibility to sit for the 
examination is disclosed. if any of the particulars furnished 
by a candidate is found to be false at any stage he / she will 
be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
11.0. Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 800/=. 
this fee can only be paid to any Branch of Bank of ceylon 
to be credited to Revenue head 7041318 of the director 
General of health Services. The receipt obtained for the 
examination fee should be pasted in the relevant cage of 
the application form. (It would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt.)  the fee is non-refundable and 
it shall not be paid back under any circumstances. Money 
orders or stamps are not accepted for examination fees.
12.0. Procedure of  Applications  : 
 (i)  candidates  should be prepared their 
applications in the following manner using a 
paper size a4 (21x29cm) as to paragraphs from 
01 to 02 should appear on the first side of the 
page, paragraphs 03 to 06 should appear on the 
first side of the page, and  remain paragraphs 
onwards should appear on the other pages, and 
should be printed in 03 pages. 
 (ii)  then the set of applications should be sent only 
by the registered post addressed to the Secretary, 
Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine, P. o. Box No. 385, Rev. Baddegama 
Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, colombo 
10, before 06.07.2018 and the words "Open 
Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of Public health management 
Assistants' Service – 2018 ………….(Indicate 
the District applied for)" should be written 
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in 
which the application is enclosed. (Should not 
sent to personal name or any other address.). it 
would be more useful to keep a photo copy of 
application along with you. 
Note.- (i) at the instances where the number of 
candidates apply for a certain town, is not 
sufficient to hold an examination centre, 
they will be directed to the town which 
they have indicated as second preference. 
However, if there is not sufficient number 
of candidates even at the second centre, 
the candidates will be directed to an 
adjoining city. The Secretary, Ministry 
of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine reserves the right to make the 
final decision about the cities where exam 
will be held.
 (ii)  appointments are issued to the selected 
candidates strictly by the name with 
initials mentioned in the application and 
therefore the name should be correctly 
written following the specimen provided. 
it shall not be allowed to change the name 
or include a part in the name or remove a 
part at the issuance of appointments.
    (iii)  the signature of the candidate in the 
application should be attested by the 
person who hold the position mentioned 
in the 13 (c) of the notification. 
 (iv)  all applicants who have paid prescribed 
examina tion fees and forwarded their 
applications on or before the prescribed 
date will be allowed to sit the competitive 
examination, on the presumption that 
only those who possess qualifications, 
indicated in the Gazette Notification have 
forwarded their applications. issuing of 
an admission card to a candidate to sit 
the competitive examination does not 
mean that the candidates' eligibility for 
the post has been accepted. if it is found 
at the interview that the applicant does 
not possess the required qualifications 
prescribed in the Gazette Notification, his 
or her candidature will be  cancelled.
 13.0 Sitting the Examination :  
 (a)  A notification will be published in official 
website of the Ministry of health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine as soon as the 
admission cards are issued to the candidates. 
if the admission card is not received even after 
05 days of such advertisement, steps should be 
taken to notify the Examination Branch of the 
Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine regarding same.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1596
 (b)  here it would be advised to inquire from 
Examination Branch of the Ministry of 
health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
with keeping the certified photocopies of the 
application form and the cash receipt kept at 
your possession, receipt of registration in hand 
and mentioning the name of the Examination 
applied for, full name, Nic No. and address. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside 
colombo to fax a letter of request including 
candidate’s details along with a fax number of 
the candidate to the fax number 0112698763.  
in order to obtain  a copy of the admission card 
via fax.
 (c)  the signature of the applicant placed on the 
admission card should also be attested. an 
applicant who submits the application through 
an institution should get his / her signature 
attested by the head of the institution or any 
officer authorized by him. Other applicants 
should get their signature attested by a School 
Principal / Retired Officer, Grama Niladhari of 
the division, justice of Peace, commissioner 
of oaths, attorney at Law, Notary Public, a 
commissioned officer in three armed forces, 
a staff officer in the Public or Provincial 
Public Service who earn a combined salary 
of Rs. 240,360 or higher or a chief incumbent 
of a Buddhist temple or clergy of any other 
religion who holds a considerable position. 
At the first instant the admission in which the 
signature is attested should be presented to the 
head of examination hall. a candidate who 
does not present the admission card will not 
be permitted to sits for the examination.
i4.0  candidates will be required to prove their identity 
in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. 
for this purpose, any of the following documents will only 
be accepted.
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons
 (ii)  a  Valid Passport
 (iii)  a  Valid driving License
15.0 the issuing of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he / she has the required 
qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates shall be 
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Secretary 
of the Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
for the purpose of conducting examinations.  they shall be 
liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed by the 
Secretary of the Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine for violation of these rules and regulations.
16.0 any matter not referred to herein will be decided 
by the Secretary of the Ministry of health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine. all candidates are bound to comply 
with the general examination rules published in this Gazette 
Notification.
17.0 in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the 
Sinhala notification shall prevail.
 JaNaka sugathaDasa,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of health, Nutrition and  
 indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine,
“Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa 
thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
23rd of May 2018.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
miNistRy of health, NutRitioN aND iNDigeNous meDiciNe 
oPeN comPetitive examiNatioN foR RecRuitmeNt to gRaDe 
iii of  PuBlic health maNagemeNt assistaNt’s seRvice - 
2018
(indicate the correct code / number clearly in the 
relevant cages)
Language medium of Examination :
Sinhala   - 2
tamil     - 3
English  - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
•  Indicate the District and District No. in which you 
select to complete for vacancies as per the paragraph 
9.0 of the Gazette Notification. (See the Schedule I 
for the numbers of districts. indicate the number and 
the district in the relevant cage.)
district district No. 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1597
• Indicate 02 towns and the town numbers in which 
the candidate intends to sit the examination as per 
the Gazette Notification. (See the Schedule II for the 
towns where the examination centers are located and 
for the respective numbers)
town Number of the town
01.  1.1  Name with initials :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
  eg : fERNaNdo d.B.S.K.
 1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
  1.3  National identity card No. : 
  old :
  New :
   
 1.4  Marital Status :–––––––––––.
 1.5  Nationality :–––––––––––.
2.0.  2.1  Permanent address :–––––––––––.
         (in English block capitals) 
 2.2  address to which the admission card should be sent 
:–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
3.0.  3.1 Sex : Male - M  female - f
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
        3.2 date of Birth : 
     
               y ear       Month    date
        3.3  age as at 30.04.2018 :
              y ears:   Months:  days:
 3.4  t elephone No. : 
 4.0. 4.1 Since when you have been residing in the district? 
:––––––––––––.
  4.2 divisional Secretariat division :––––––––––––.
  4.3  Grama Niladhari division :––––––––––––.
5.0   Educational Qualifications
         5.1 Particulars of G. c. E. (o/L) Examination :
 (i)  y ear of the Examination :–––––––––––.
 (ii)  index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
 (iii)  Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
  
 5.2 Particulars of G. c. E. (a/L) Examination :
 (i)  y ear of the Examination :–––––––––––.
 (ii)  index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
 (iii) Subject Stream :–––––––––––.
 (iv)  Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
6.0    have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court 
of Law ? (indicate (P) in the relevant cage) (indicate 
particulars, if the answer is yes) :–––––––––––.
 y es   No
7.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the 
examination fee :
 (i) Branch of the Bank to which the examination fee 
was paid  :–––––––––––.
 (ii) the date and number of the receipt  :–––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid  :–––––––––––.
Affix the relevant receipt firmly here. 
(would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt 
with the candidates)
8.0  Candidate's Certificate :
  (a) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge. i agree to suffer any loss that 
may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1598
and / or provision of erroneous information. i also 
state that all sections herein have been correctly 
filled.
 (b) i am aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service 
if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 
 (c) further, i state that i am bound by the rules and 
regulations and decisions taken by the Secretary of 
the Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine in relation to conduct the examination. 
 (d) i  shall not change any information mentioned 
herein subsequently.
             
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
 9.0  attestation of applicant's Signature : 
i certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. ...................., employed 
at my place of work and who is personally known to me, 
placed his / her signature in my presence on ................
 ––––––––––––––,
             Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
date :––––––––––––.
Name in full :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by Official Stamp)
                                 
SchEduLE - i
the list of the Names of DistRicts aND NumBeRs
 District  District Number
 1. colombo 01
 2. Gampaha  02
 3. Kalutara 03
 4. Matale  04
 5. Kandy  05
 6. NuwaraEliya  06
 7. Galle  07
 8. Matara  08
 9. hambantota  09
 10. jaffna  10
 11. Mannar  11
 12. Mulativu  12
 13. Vavuniya  13
 14. t rincomalee  14
 15. Batticaloa  15
 16. ampara  16
 17. Puttalam  17
 18. Kurunegala  18
 19. anuradhapura  19
 20. Polonnaruwa  20
 21. Badulla  21
 22. Monaragala  22
 23. Kegalle  23
 24. Ratnapura  24
 25. Kilinochchi  25
SchEduLE - ii
towNs wheRe examiNatioN ceNteRs will Be locateD
 District    Town No. of the  
   Town
 01.  colombo Kotahena                            01
                                   Maradana          02
    Borella  03
    Kurunduwatta  04
    Bambalapitiya  05
    havelock town  06
    Nugegoda  07
    Moratuwa  08
    Piliyandala  09                                                       
    Maharagama 10
                                     hanwella   11
                            a vissawella              12
                         homagama      13
 02.  Gampaha  Negombo  14
    Minuwangoda  15
    divulapitiya  16
    Veyangoda  17
    Gampaha  18
    ja-Ela 19
    Wattala 20
    Kelaniya  21
    dompe  22 
 District  District Number

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1599
 03.  Kalutara  horana  23
    Panadura  24
    Kalutara 25
    Matugama 26
    aluthgama 27 
 04.  Matale  Matale  28
    Galewela  29
    Naula  30
    Laggala Pallegama  31 
 05.  Kandy  Kandy  32
    Katugastota  33
    teldeniya  34
    Wattegama 35
    Nugawela  36
    Galagedara  37
    Gampola  38 
 06.  Nuwara Eliya  hedunuwewa  39
    Nuwara Eliya  40
    Watumulla 41
    hatton  42
    Ginigathhena  43 
 07.  Galle ambalangoda 44
    Galle  45
    Baddegama 46
 08.  Matara Weligama  47
    Matara  48
    Kamburupitiya  49
    hakmana  50
    deiyandara  51
    dikwella  52
    akuressa  53
    Kotopola  54
 09.  hambantota  Beliatta  55
    Walasmulla  56
    Weeraketiya  57
    tangalle  58
    ambalantota  59
    hambantota  60
    tissamaharama  61
 10.  jaffna  chavakachcheri  62
    jaffna  63
    thellipallai  64
    Point Pedro  65
 11.  Mannar  Mannar 66
    Murukkan  67
 12.  Mullativu Mullativu  68
 13.  Vavuniya  Vavuniya 69
 14.  t rincomalee  Kantalai  70
    trincomalee  71
    Muttur  72
    Padavi Parakramapura  73
    Kinniya  74
 15.  Batticaloa  Batticaloa  75
    Eravur  76
    Kathankudi  77
 16.  ampara  ampara 78
    Serankada  79
    Kalmunai  80
    akkaraeipattu  81
    Sammanthurai  82
 17.  Puttalam  Wennappuwa  83
    Madampe 84
    chilaw  85
    Puttalam  86
 18.  Kurunegala  Kuliyapitiya  87
    Bingiriya  88
    Narammala  89
    Polgahawela  90
    Kurunegala  91
    ibbagamuwa  92
    dodangaslanda  93                                           
    Nikaweratiya                     94
                            Maho                               95
 19.  anuradhapura   Medawachchiya  96
                        Kekirawa  97
    anuradhapura  98
    Galenbindunuwewa  99
    Kahatagasdigiliya  100 
 20.  Polonnaruwa  Polonnaruwa 101
    hingurakgoda  102
 District    Town No. of the  
   Town
 District    Town No. of the  
   Town

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1600
 21.  Badulla  Bandarawela                  103
                       Welimada       104
                                Badulla      105
                            Passara  106
                            Mahiyanganaya    107
                                     Girandurukotte         108
                     hasalaka           109
 22.  Monaragala  Bibile                                 110
                                Monaragala                      111
                                Wellawaya  112
 23.  Kegalle  Kegalle  114
    Rambukkana  115
    Mawanella  116
    Ruwanwella  117 
 24.  Ratnapura  Eheliyagoda  118
    Ratnapura  119
    Pelmadulla  120
    Balangoda  121
    Kalawana  122
    Embilipitiya  123 
 25.  Kilinochchi  Kilinochchi  124
    Pallai  125
SchEduLE iii
 N o . of  v acaNcies  e xists  aND  v acaNt  D istRicts                                                                
    District                     No. of Vacancies exists 
01. colombo        473
02. Gampaha                   32
03. Kalutara                             12
04. Matale          No vacancies exists in the district
05. Kandy  42
06. NuwaraEliya                                    16
07. Galle                                           28
08. Matara   11
09. hambantota             12
10. jaffna                                  23
11. Mannar  No vacancies exists in the district 
12. Mulativu            No vacancies exists in the district 
13. Vavuniya          No vacancies exists in the district 
14. trincomalee                                   20
15. Batticaloa                         13
16. ampara                                  27
17. Puttalam                                     03
18. Kurunegala                                      16
19. anuradhapura                                      62
20. Polonnaruwa                               15
21. Badulla                                           08
22. Monaragala                             08
23. Kegalle                                        07
24. Ratnapura                                         09
25. Kilinochchi      No vacancies exists in the district 
06–460
 District    Town No. of the  
   Town
––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Recruitment of Trainee Dental Technician for the Training of the Para medical Services - 2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited from eligible Sri Lankan citizens for the recruitment as trainees to the below mentioned course 
which is conducted by the faculty of dental Sciences, university of Peradeniya in relation to the post of dental technician 
of the Paramedical Services of the Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine. 
Code  No. Name of the training course Training period The medium in which the training should be followed 
1 dental technician 02 years English
2. the number of trainees to be recruited to the training course from provinces will be based on the existing cadre in 
the hospitals and institutions situated in of the said province belong to the line Ministry and Provincial council and eligible 
applicants are selected on provincial basis. (t otal number of trainees to be recruited - 10).
3. this will be a full-time course. therefore, the students who are following full-time courses in any university, 
or under Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine or in any other government institute during the five days 
of the week including Saturday morning should not apply for this, if anybody applies as so and it will be revealed later, he 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1601
or she will be dismissed from the course/post and all the expenses which were incurred by the government on behalf of he/
she will be recovered. if a full time student in a university or in another government institute intends to apply, the following 
instructions should be followed.
 3.1 if you had registered or have registered in a university or in any government institute for a full time course 
by the date 29.06.2018, and if you are selected for this training course, your registration for the relevant 
training or course should be cancelled before the date of the registration for this course. Even though, you 
had not participated or you do not participate in the lectures while you have registered in a university, since 
you are concerned as a university student, such applicants should also be cancelled own registration as 
mentioned above. You should have sufficient written facts to prove it, whenever it is required. 
 3.2 Even though, you had not registered in any university or for any other course conducted by the Ministry 
of health Nutrition and indigenous Medicine by the date 29.06.2018, if you had registered by the date of 
registration for the training due to any reason, his/her registration for the course should be cancelled before 
the date of registration at the training. 
 3.3 if you had completed a degree in any university, effective date of the said degree should be a date before 
the date of recruitment for the course. 
 3.4 if there are applicants those who have registered for full time courses under the Ministry of health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine and if they are selected for the training, they will be registered for the training, 
only if they leave from the bonded sum according to the agreement signed relevant to the training at the time 
and all the allowances you have received. 
N. B. :-
 * it should be strictly noted that any section in this Gazette notification does not imply that you will be 
compulsorily admitted to the course applied even thought you have filled all the conditions mentioned 
above from.
 * It should be strictly noted that you will not be qualified in any respect for these courses, if you have not 
obtained sufficient Z-score or not fulfilled any other condition mentioned here in even though you have 
fulfilled the said conditions mentioned from 3.1 to 3.4.
 * It should be further noted that you will not be qualified in any respect for these course, if you have not 
fulfilled the conditions mentioned from 3.1 to 3.4 even though you have obtained sufficient Z-score and 
have fulfilled all other conditions mentioned herein. 
4. Educational and other specific qualifications relevant to the post. 
Code 
No.
Training 
Course G.C.E. (O/L) Qualifications G. C. E. (A/L) Qualifications
Other specific 
qualifications 
relevant to the 
training course
1
dental 
technician
Should have passed the G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination in six subjects including 
English Language with at least a credit 
pass for Sinhala Language/t amil 
Language, Mathematics, Science 
including one other subject in not 
more than two sittings.
Should have passed 2 subjects 
from Physics, Biology and 
agriculture in one sitting with a 
credit pass for Chemistry at the 
G. c. E. (a/L) Examination either 
in 2016 or 2017
No

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1602
5. Other Common Qualifications :
 (a) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
 (b) age of the applicants should not be less than 
18 years and not over 30 years of age as at the 
closing date of applications. 
 (c) Should also agree to serve at least 10 years in 
the central Government Service or Provincial 
council Service.
 (d) Should be physically and mentally fit. 
 (e) Should have resided continuously in the district 
from where you apply for period of 03 years 
immediately period to the closing date of 
applications. 
 (i) he/She should have resided continuously 
in the said district for period of 03 years 
to the date of 29.06.2018 (for this Grama 
Niladhari Certificate counter - signed 
by the divisional Secretary should be 
submitted for this) ;
  or
 (ii) Extracts of register of voters during 
last 03 years obtained from the district 
Election office should be submitted.
6. Method of Application  :
 (a) application should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen form appended to this. for 
that, papers in the size a4 should be used. cages 
from 01 to 9(a) should appear on the first page 
and cages from 9(b) to 12 should appear on the 
second page. 
 (b) Receipt obtained by paying Rs. 300 to the credit 
of the account of the director General of health 
Services - collection of Examination fees No. 
7041318 of the Bank of ceylon, thaprobane 
Branch should be affixed on the place "Receipt" 
of the application so as not be detached. Keep a 
copy of the receipt before you affix it. Rs. 300.
 (c) Signature of the applicant should be attested by 
an officer in the Sri Laka Administrative Service/
an officer in the Educational Administrative 
Service/an officer in the Sri Lanka Account 
antsy Service/a Principal of a Government 
School/a justice of the Peace/an attorney-at-
Law or an officer who holds a permanent and 
pensionable post in the public service and draws 
a salary not less than Rs. 452,916 per annum. 
 (d) the words "Recruitment of trainee dental 
technicians for the training in Para Medical 
Service 2018" and below that, the province and 
district should be written on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope in which the appilcation 
is enclosed. duly completed applications should 
be sent to reach director (administration - 
Establishment) Ministry of health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine, "Suwasiripaya", No. 
385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero 
Mawatha, colombo 10 under registered cover 
on or before 29.06.2018.
7. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
8. applications which are incomplete, not complying 
with the specimen form of application, not completed basic 
qualifications, not contain the bank receipt and not registered 
on or before 29.06.2018 will be rejected without any notice. 
9. From the applicants who have satisfied the above 
qualifications, only those who are selected based on a 
priority list prepared considering the Z-score will be 
called for the interview conducted by an interview board 
which is comprised of staff officers of Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine and a staff officer of any 
other Ministry. applicants should produce originals of the 
following documents at the interview :
 (a) Birth Certificate, 
 (b) original of the G. c. E. (a/L) examination result 
sheet with the Z-score (a certified copy should be 
sent attaching to the application),
 (c) original of the G. c. E. (o/L) examination result 
sheet. (a certified copy should be sent attaching 
to the application).
 (d) National identity card issued by the department 
for Registration of Persons or valid passport of 
driving license,
 (e) Documents required for confirmation of 
residence according to above 6(e).
10. Particulars of the eligible applicants will be published 
on the website www.health.gov.lk after the interview. 
11. Training procedure : 
 (i) applicants selected from the interview will 
be admitted to training School of dental 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1603
technicians of university of Peradeniya 
to follow the training course of dental 
technicians. the course should be followed in 
the English medium.
 (ii) t rainees admitted to the training school shall be 
subject to rules and regulations of the training 
school and any other orders imposed by the 
Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine from time to time. 
 (iii) t raining of those who fail the prescribed 
examinations, whose work and conduct are not 
satisfactory or who fail to adhere to relevant 
conditions of examination and conditions of 
leave of the training school may be terminated 
at any time without any compensation. 
 (iv) a  monthly allowance will be paid to the 
trainees during the period of training in terms 
of the Schedule V of Public administration 
circular 03/2016.
 (v) at the time he/she is admitted to the training 
school, he/she sould enter in to an agreement 
and surety bond with the director General 
of health Services that he/she will complete 
the training successfully, not abandon the 
training and serve in the relevant post in the 
public service/Provincial Public Service for a 
minimum period of 10 years if an appointment 
is granted after completing the said training. if 
he/she resigns from the training, abandon the 
training or his/her training is terminated as per 
above section iii or fails to serve in the relevant 
post for a period of 10 years after appointment, 
he/she should refund the Ministry of health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine, the 
allowance paid to him/her during the training 
period, expenses incurred by the Government 
and the amount of Surety Bond. if not, legal 
action will be taken to recover the said amount 
as per agreement. 
12. Terms of engagement.– Government is not bound 
to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. 
however, candidates will be considered for appointing to a 
post in class iii of the post concerned taking in to account 
the conditions of the scheme of recruitment relevant to 
the training course they are recruited to and the option 
for vacancies remaining after making transfers of senior 
officers according to the priority list of vacancies prepared 
based on the vacancies exist as at the date of completion of 
training and the merit obtained at the final examination of 
the training course. 
if permanent appointments are granted at the end of the 
training, salaries will be paid in terms of the provisions of 
the Public administration circular No. 03/2016. Salary 
scale applicable is Rs. 32,080 - 445x10- 660x11 - 730 x10 - 
750x10 - Rs. 58,590.
13. In filling in the application, particulars regarding 
educational qualifications and other qualifications should be 
mentioned carefully and accurately. If the said certificates 
are proved to be false, action will be taken to refer the case 
to the criminal investigation department to take legal 
action. the appointment of such applicant will be cancelled 
and he/she will be dismissed from the training/post and 
disciplinary action will be taken against him/her and his/her 
name will be entered in to the black list of those who are 
not recruited to the public service again. and, action will 
be taken to recover the allowance paid to him/her during 
the period of training, expenses incurred by the Government 
and the amount relevant to the Security Bond. 
14. Selected appliants should submit themselves to a 
medical examination within the first month of the training 
in order to prove that they are physically and mentally fit 
to follow the course concerned and to serve in any part of 
the island and applicants found to be not fit at the medical 
examination will not be eligible to continue the course. 
15. All recruited as above, shall be subject to all rules and 
regulations applicable to Public Servants, Provisions of the 
Establishments code of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka, policies prescribed by the Ministry of health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine, financial Regulations 
and other regulations, rules regulations and orders imposed 
by the Government from time to time. 
16. this Ministry is not bound to provide residential 
facilities at the training school for the applicants recruited 
for the training. if so provided, assessed rent for the housing 
room, water and electricity bills will be charged. 
17. y ou have no right to engage in trade union activities 
or private practice during the period of training. and, if you 
are appointed to the post concerned after the training, you 
will also have no right to engage in the private practice. if it 
is found to have done so, legal action will be taken. 
18. if any problem arisen with regard to any fact covered 
or not covered by this Gazette notification, the decision of 
the Secretary of Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1604
Medicine will be final. In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, 
Sinhala text will pr evail. 
 JaNaka sugathaDasa, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of health, Nutrition, indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of health, Nutrition indigenous Medicine, 
"Suwasiripaya", 
385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10,
25th May, 2018.
SPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  foRM 
RecRuitmeNt of tRaiNee DeNtal techNiciaN foR the tRaiNiNg of the PaRa meDical seRvices - 2018
(Read properly before complete the application)
 1.   (a) Name with in itials :––––––––––––.
     (in English Block capitals) : Ex. : a. B. c. SiLV a
    (b) Name in full (in English Block Letters) :––––––––––––.
    (c) Name in full (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––––.
 2. National identity card No. :––––––––––––. (a copy should be attached)
 3. Postal address : Sinhala/t amil English
      ......................................................... .........................................................
      ......................................................... .........................................................
      ......................................................... .........................................................
      ......................................................... .........................................................
 4.   (a) Permanent address :  Sinhala/t amil      English
      ......................................................... .........................................................
      ......................................................... .........................................................
      ......................................................... .........................................................
    (b) t elephone No. : Mobile :––––––––––––.         Land line :––––––––––––.
    (c) Resided district : Sinhala/t amil :––––––––––––.  English :––––––––––––.
    (d) are you permanent resident in this district : yes/No :––––––––––––.
    (e) if "y es", since when have you been residing in this district :––––––––––––.
 5. date of birth : date :––––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––––.  year :––––––––––––.
  age as at 29.06.2018 years : :––––––––––––.   Months : :––––––––––––.   days : :––––––––––––.
 6. Gender : female  Male  (Mark P in the relevant cage)
 7. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka : yes  No (Mark P in the relevant cage)
 8. civil Status : Married  unmarried 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1605
 9. Education Qualification : 
  (a) G. C. E. Advanced Level Examination (Attach a certified copy of the A/L result sheet in which the Z-score is 
indicated)
   district in which year have sat the examination :–––––––––––.
   y ear of examination  :–––––––––––. index No.  :–––––––––––.
   Z-Score  :–––––––––––.  Subject Stream  :–––––––––––.
S./No. Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
  (b) G. c. E. ordinary Level Examination : 
S./No. Subject
First attempt Second attempt
Year Year
Index No. Index No. 
Grade Grade
1 Sinhala/t amil Language
2 Mathematics
3 Science
4 English
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
    * All subjects you for appeared for at the G. C. E. (O/L) examination should be mentioned in the table. 
 10. have you ever been convicted by a court  : y es   No  (Put a ' P' in the relevant box)
  if it is yes describe :–––––––––––.
 11. Certification of the Applicant : 
 (a) i solemnly declare that i read carefully and understood the Gazette notification, completed this application 
subject to all conditions therein, and the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to 
my knowledge. 
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained in this application are found to be false, i am 
liable to be disqualified and if so found after appointment, I am liable to be dismissed from the service. 
Affix the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee to the credit of the Account of "Director 
General of health Services collection of examination fees" No. 7041318 of the Bank of ceylon, 
thaprobane Branch, so as not to be detached 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attesting. 
date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1606
12. attestation of the Signature candidate  :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................... who 
submits this application is personally known to me and that 
she placed her signature in my presence. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attester. 
date :––––––––––––.
full Name of the person attester  :––––––––––––.
Post  :––––––––––––;
address  :––––––––––––;
Official frank of the attester  :––––––––––––.
06–605
–––––––––––––––––
COmmISSION TO INvESTIGATE 
ALLEGATIONS Of bRIbER y OR 
CORRuPTION 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Investigation Officer of the 
Commission to Investigate Allegations of bribery 
or Corruption – 2018
hEREBy notified that the open competitive examination to 
recruit suitable candidates for 200 (two hundred) vacancies 
in the posts of Investigation Officer of the commission to 
investigate allegations of Bribery or corruption will be 
held during month of September 2018 in colombo, Kandy, 
Matara, Kurunegala, Kilinochchi and trincomale districts 
by the commissioner General of Examinations. in case 
of insufficient number of candidates applied for a certain 
district which proposed to establish examination centers or 
any other reason, the commissioner General of Examination 
will take steps to direct the candidates to a nearest 
examination center. Duly filled applications prepared as per 
the specimen at the end of this notification should be sent 
under registered cover to reach ‘’commissioner General 
of Examinations, organization and foreign Examinations 
Branch, department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Po Box 
1503, colombo’’ on or before 10.07.2018. the top left hand 
corner of the envelope containing the application should 
indicate “Post of Investigation Officer - Sinhala/ Tamil/ 
English medium”. 
(a) closing date of applicati on – 10.07.2018
Note: complaints with regard to losses or delays of 
any application or any related document in the 
post will not be considered. Losses incurred by 
failure to submit application on the due date 
must be borne by the applicant.    
 
01. Mode of recruitment.– Suitable applicants will be 
recruited upon a written examination and a qualification 
assessment interview according to the order of marks 
on merit achieved by each candidate and the vacancies 
available. Number of existing vacancies are 200.
 1.1 this examination will be conducted in Sinhala, 
tamil and English medium. the applicant will 
select the medium for the examination and all 
examination papers should be answered in the 
same medium selected. the medium preferred 
in the application will not be allowed to change 
later. 
02. Terms of employment : 
 o this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contributions should be made to the Widows’ and 
orphans’ / Widowers’ and orphans’ contributory 
Pension Scheme. (Should be subjected to the 
future policy decisions of the government on 
pension scheme.) 
 o Officers appointed to this post should be subjected 
to a probation period of three (03) years and the 
first efficiency bar examination should be passed 
during three (03) year probation period. 
 o The first efficiency bar should be passed before 
lapse of three (03) years after recruitment to 
Grade II, the second Efficiency Bar Examination 
should be passed before lapse of five (05) years 
after promoting to Grade i. 
 o in terms of Public administration circular 
No.07/2007 and 01/2014 and incidental circulars 
thereto the relevant proficiency in other official 
languages should be acquired within five (05) 
years. 
 o This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules 
of Public Service commission, Establishment 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka, Public financial Regulations, other 
regulations of the commission to investigate 
allegations of bribery or corruption and circular 
regulations issued time to time by the government. 

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1607
03. Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale of the post: Rs.34,605-10x660-11x755-15x930 - Rs.63,460. 
  (Salary code -MN 5 - 2016)
This salary scale is effective from 01.01.2020. The basic salary from 01.01.2018 is Rs.33,290/- and an adjustment 
allowance of Rs.1,052/- is payable. 
04. Qualifications .– Educational Qualifications:- 
 (a) Should posses a degree from a university approved by the university Grant commission. 
 or 
 (b) Should be an attorney at law sworn in at the Supreme court 
 
Age Limit.– the applicant should not be less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age as at 10.07.2018. 
(accordingly, the persons born on or before 10.07.1997 and on or after 10.07.1983 are eligible to apply to this post.)
Physical Qualifications.– Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island and to execute the 
duties of the post.
Other Qualifications :
o Should be a Sri Lankan citizen 
o have an excellent character
o The applicants should have achieved all qualifications required to recruit to the post as at the due date 
mentioned in the Gazette notification. 
o a  security clearance report will be called on all selected applicants to examine the suitability of each 
person to serve in the commission.
05. Method of recruitment  :
5.1 Written examination: will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examination 
Subject 
No. 
Subject Syllabus Time Maximum 
marks 
Minimum 
marks to pass
01 General 
Knowledge 
a common question paper prepared to evaluate 
his/her knowledge on Sports, international 
organizations  , information technology , history , 
the candidate's place of residence, including 
political, social, cultural and economic 
environment of Sri Lanka, national and 
international current affairs as well as scientific 
and industrial development 
02 hours 100 40%
02 intelligence test  it is expected to measure the applicant’s power 
of reading and intelligence by examining the 
candidate’s conclusions and responses regarding 
issues presented in a numerical and contextual 
context. 
02 hours 100 40%
03 Essay and 
Summary 
it is intend to measure the logical and imaginary 
power of the candidate for filing and transmitting 
ideas and information based on a theme chosen 
by the candidate, among the given topics or 
themes and to measure the capability of the 
candidate to understand a complicated document 
and to clearly and accurately summarize its main 
idea by own words of the candidate.
02 hours 100 40%
     

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1608
 5.2  Qualification assessment interview.– Will be conducted by the director General of the commission to 
investigate allegations of Bribery or corruption :
Fields of assessment for marks Maximum 
marks
Minimum marks 
to pass
Professional qualifications 
•	 Certificate / Diploma course from a government approved institute. (Maximum 10 
Marks – 2 Marks for each course followed in any field of subject)
•	 Post Graduate diploma from an approved university (Maximum 12 Marks – by 
3 Marks) 
•	 Post Graduate Degree in any field of subject from an approved University (10 
Marks) 
20 Not applicable 
Experience
Working experience at a reputable institution – Maximum 20 Marks - by 10 Marks for 
each year
20
Extracurricular activities 
Sports and social activities 
20
Comprehension 
candidate’s investigation skills are evaluated by a short written exam on a case study on 
an investigation. (for candidates passed preliminary recruitment exam)    
20
communication skills and personality 10
Proficiency in other languages 10
 5.3  A number equivalent to twice the number of intended recruitments shall be called for the qualification 
assessment interview in order of merit among those who have passed the written examination. candidates 
shall be recruited in order of merit of the total marks achieved by each candidate from the interview and 
the written examination. 
06. The application should be prepared using 22-29cm size, A4 sheets denoting 01-07 headings on first page. 
The details of the application should be dully filled by own hand writing of the applicant. Incomplete applications and the 
applications not in accordance with the specimen will be rejected without any notification. It is advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the application with the candidate. it is the responsibility of the candidate to verify that the perfected application complies 
with the specimen given in the notification, as otherwise, the application may be rejected. 
  6.1  Identity of the candidate. – candidates must provide one of the following documents to the supervisor of 
the examination hall to prove the identity. 
 (i) National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a  valid passport.   
  the candidates who passed written examination are bound to produce any of the following 
documents at the interview or any other requested time :
 (i) Educational certificates,
 (ii) Birth certificate,
 (iii) National identity card,
 (iv) Certificates of experience,
 (v) Two Character certificates. (one should be issued by the Grama Niladhari countersigned by 
the divisional Secretary) 

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1609
N.b. 
 (a) Post / posts applied should be clearly indicated on 
application,
 (b) applications of the candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will be not 
considered,
 (c) Officers recruited to this post shall be assigned to serve 
in any part of the island disregarding dates or durations. 
07. examination Fee.– the fee for the examination 
will be Rs.750. this should be paid before closing date 
of applications only at any Post Office, Sub-Post Office, 
to be credited to the Revenue head 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examination. the receipt obtained 
to the name of the applicant upon payment of examination 
fee should be firmly pasted on due place of the application. 
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt for future 
requirements). the examination fee once paid will not be 
refunded under any circumstances. Money orders and 
stamps will not be accepted. 
08. Scheme of examination :
 8.1  on the assumption that only the applicants who 
have achieved the qualifications prescribed in 
the Gazette Notification have applied for the 
examination, the commissioner General of 
Examination will issue admi ssion cards to the 
applicants within the age limits specified in 
the notification and who have forwarded duly 
completed applications with the receipt having 
paid prescribed examination fee on or before 
final date. The Department of Examinations 
will publish a notice in newspapers immediately 
after issuing admission cards to the applicants. 
any applicant who has not received admission 
card within 02 or 03 days after publishing the 
notice in the newspaper should inquire from the 
organization of foreign Examinations Branch 
of the department of Examinations stated in the 
notification. It is advisable to inquire with the 
name of the examination applied, full name of 
the applica nt, National identity card number 
and the address correctly. applicants residing 
outside colombo should inquire by fax through 
the number in the notice with particular details 
and a fax number to deliver the admission card 
promptly. copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt relevant to payment of examination fee 
/ receipt of postal registration should be kept 
secured with the applicant to prove details when 
asked by the department of Examinations at 
such inquiry. 
  the Signature of the applicant in the application 
for the examination and admission card should 
be attested. an applicant applying for the 
examination through an institution should 
get the signature attested by the head of the 
Institution or an officer authorized by him and 
other applicants should get their signatures 
attested by a Principal / retired officer, 
Grama Niladhari of respective division, a 
commissioner for oaths, an attorney-at-Law, 
a Notary Public, a Commissioned Officers of 
Three Forces, a permanent officer in public 
service who draws an annual salary above 
Rs.415,260/- or the chief incumbent of a 
Buddhist Vihara or a Nayaka Buddhist Monk, 
the incumbent of a place of worship of any other 
religion or a religious dignitary of standing 
of any other religion. candidates must sit for 
the examination hall assigned to him. Every 
candidate should get his admission card attested 
in advance and surrendered it to the supervisor 
of the hall on the first day he presents himself 
for the examination. candidates who fail to 
submit admission card are not permitted to sit 
for the examination. 
 8.2 The result list of qualified candidates as 
per the merit order of total marks achieved 
through written examination and qualification 
assessment interview will be handed over to the 
“director General, commission to investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption”. All 
candidates sat for the written examination will 
be notified respective marks by post or by the 
website of the department of Examinations, 
www.results.exams.gov.lk 
 8.3 issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
should not be considered as the candidate has 
fulfilled the qualifications required for the post.
 8.4 candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting 
examination. Breach of these rules by any 
candidate shall be liable to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1610
09. This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules 
of Public Service commission, circular regulations issued 
from time to time on public service, service minute and the 
amendments imposed.
10. The final decision of filling or non-filling all vacancies 
or part thereof shall be reserved by the appointing authority.   
11. in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this notice, the Sinhala text will 
prevail. 
 s aRath  J ayamaNNe , Pc
 director General.
commission to investigate allegations of Bribery or 
corruption,
No.36, Malalasekera Mawatha, 
colombo 07,
on this 31st day May, 2018.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
the Post of Investigation Officer of the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of bribery or Corruption - 2018
town where the applicant intend to appear for the 
Examination  :
Town Town No.
first choise 
Second choise 
(complete in line with Schedule -1)
Language medium preferred for written test :
2. Sinhala
3. t amil
4. English  
 1. Name indicating last name first and initials of other 
names at the end:-
  (in English block capital letters)
  eg. : NiMaL a.B.c.d.  :––––––––––––.
 2. Names denoted by initials: (in English block capital) 
:––––––––––––.
 3. full name (Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––––.
 4. (i)  Permanent address in English capital letters: 
(admission card will be sent to this address)  : 
––––––––––––.
  (ii)  Official address: (If in public service) :–––––––––.
 5. Sex :   Male - 0
     female  - 1
 6. National identity card No.: 
 7. Ethnicity:  
 
    (Sinhalese– 1, tamil– 2, indian tamil– 3, Muslim– 4, 
other– 5)
 8. date of birth :
  y ear  Month date
  age as at 10.07.2018 :   
  y ears  Months  days      
  contact No. : 
  Mobile: 
  
  fixed:
 10. Educational Qualifications:
  G.c.E.(ordinary Level)
Subject Grade
  G.c.E.(advanced Level)
Subject Grade

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2018
1611
 11. degree :––––––––––––;
  university :––––––––––––;
  details of the degree :––––––––––––.
  Other qualifications:
  1. ––––––––––––––––––.
  2. ––––––––––––––––––.
  3. ––––––––––––––––––.
 12. Have you ever been subjected to dismissal from public 
service or vacation of post:
  y es/ No :––––––––––––.
 13. have you ever been punished by a court of Law for 
any offence? y es/ No :––––––––––––.
  if yes, furnish relevant information :––––––––––––.
 14. if you presently employed, details:
  Name of the institution :––––––––––––.
  Date of first appointment :––––––––––––.
  Post :––––––––––––.
  Salary :––––––––––––.
 15. Names and addresses of two non-relatives who can 
provide your details
 (i) ––––––––––––––––––.
 (ii) ––––––––––––––––––.
 16. details of the receipt received upon payment of 
examination fee:
 (i) Name of the office to which the examination fee 
was paid :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Receipt No. and date :––––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid :––––––––––––.
 
Please affix firmly the receipt obtained on payment of 
examination fee so as to be unglued
(Keeping a photocopy of the receipt with you would 
be vital)
i do hereby state that the particulars given by me in 
the application are true and correct. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect 
before selection, I am subject to be disqualified or dismissed 
from the service without any compensation if it is revealed 
after selection. furthermore, i agree to abide by rules and 
regulations of the commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the conducting of the examination.  
      
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant’s signature :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………  is 
personally known to me and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on this …….....……day 
of….....……2018. i also certify that he/she has paid the due 
examination fee and has attached the paid receipt.
   
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature.
Name and designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
Official Frank :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
Note:  the signature of the applicants in public service 
should be attested by the head of the department 
or by an authorized officer. 
If the applicant is already in public service:-
Certification of the Head of the Department 
i hereby certify that the Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………… 
serves in this Ministry/department/ institution on permanent/ 
temporary basis and the details given by him/ her are true 
and correct according to the personal file of the officer and 
further certified that he/she can/cannot be released from his/
her present post if he/she is selected.
      ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of the department.
date :––––––––––––;
Name :––––––––––––;
designation :––––––––––––;
department :––––––––––––.
(delete the words inappropriate)
Schedule No. 1
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Matara 03
Kurunegala 04
Kilinochchi 05
trincomalee 06
06–627
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.