

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of May 19, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 22.05.2017)
ABDUL MAJEED ACADEMY
 (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Abdul Majeed Academy
To be presented in Parliament by  Hon. K. Kader Masthan,  M.P. for
Vanni District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ABDUL MAJEED ACADEMY
WHEREAS an Academy  called and known as the
“Abdul Majeed Academy”  has heretofore been formed in Sri
Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and transacting all matters connected  with the said Academy
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Academy has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2017.
2. (1) From and after  the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so may persons as now are members of  the “Abdul
Majeed Academy” (hereinafter referred to as the “Academy”) or
shall  hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be  a body corporate with perpetual succession,
under the name and style of the  “Abdul Majeed Academy”,
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)  and by that name
may sue and be sued, with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and  to alter  the same at its pleasure.
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Abdul
Majeed
Academy.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to function as a fully-fledged higher educational
institution;
(b) to offer lingual, technical, information technology
and theological subjects;
(c) to conduct short-term and long-term courses on
various disciplines;
(d) to conduct special and occasional lectures on topical
issues;
(e) to motivate research, literature and writing;
(f) to publish books and periodicals giving guidelines
on day-to-day affairs of the masses;
(g) to conduct guidance programmes;
(h) to provide counselling services on matters affecting
the personal, family and social life;
(i) to propagate noble moral values; and
(j) to initiate, promote,facilitate and participate in
development and advancement of education.
(2)  In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste,
sex, political opinion, place of birth or any of such
grounds.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or any Provincial Council.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.
(2) ( a) The Board of Directors of the Foundation that
holds office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of
the Corporation until the first Board is appointed or elected
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3) ( a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacnacy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.30
Corporation
to ensure no
conflict with
the work of a
Ministry or
Department
of the Central
Government
or Provincial
Council.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
6. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts and matters  as  necessary
or desirable for the promotion, or any one of them, including
the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purpose of the Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind:
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and  to  open,  operate  and  close  accounts  in  any
bank;
(d) to invest any fund not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner as the
Board may determine ;
(e) to under, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trust or any real or personal property
with a view to promoting the objects of the
Corporation;30
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
5
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and  to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation; and
(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting and by the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matter:—
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, or any sub-
committee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualification  and disqualification to be a
member of the Board and the Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its’ objects and
dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to rules of the Corporation.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which names, addresses and other essential details of the
members be inscribed.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2)  All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for an account of
the Corporation shall be deposited to in one or more Banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
power, duties and functions under the Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2)  The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by Auditor-General in terms of
Article 154 of the Constitution.
20
Register of
members.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
7
Annual
report.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
(4) For the purpose of  this section, “Qualified Auditor”
means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certified to practice as an
Accountant issued by the  Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities of the
Corporation for each financial year and submit such report together
with the audited statement of accounts to the Secretary of the
Ministry of the Minister as assigned the subject of Social Services
and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social Services Organizations
appointed under the Voluntary Social Services Organization
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the
expiration of six months of the year succeeding the year to which
such report relates.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and local
moneys received by the Corporation during the financial
year shall be attached to the report referred to in subsection
(1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Academy existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Academy on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
13. Subject to the provision of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold any property
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.
14. The Moneys and property of the Corporation
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by
way of dividend, bonus or profit, to the members of the
Corporation.
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
member of the Board who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution  having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which, is  by
the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its members.
(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Application
of money
and Property.
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 10 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
9
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or  of any body  politic, or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5

<!-- page 11 -->

Abdul Majeed Academy
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .