

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2017
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2035$51 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'09'08
No. 2035/51  - FRIDAY   SEPTEMBER  08,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
L.D.B 24/51(iv).
THE  MOTOR  TRAFFIC  ACT  (CHAPTER  203)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Transport and Civil  Aviation under Section 237 of the  Motor Traffic Act, (Chap-
ter 203) read with Sub-section (2) of  Section 5 and Section 19 of  the aforesaid Act.
NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILV A,
Minister of Transport and
Civil   Aviation.
Colombo,
08th September, 2017.
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG 3685  — 507  (09/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2017
2A
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited  as the Motor Traffic (Motor Tricycle) Regulations, No. 04 of 2017 and shall
come into operation on October 1, 2017.
2. (1) Every owner of a motor tricycle who uses such motor tricycle for the purpose of transportation of persons
for hire or otherwise shall ensure that the off side (right side) opening to the passenger’s compartment of the motor
tricycle is partially or fully closed permanently to prevent any entry or exit by a passenger.
(2) ( a) A driver of a motor tricycle shall not allow any passenger to enter into or exit from the motor  tricycle
by scaling over the off side (right side) of the motor  tricycle.
(b) No person shall enter into or exit from the motor tricycle by scaling over the off side (right side) of
the motor tricycle.
3. An owner of a motor tricycle shall ensure that–
(a) the support of all seats of  the motor tricycle shall be firmed in position and at least 382 and 230
millimeters measured in a straight line along the front of each seat shall be allowed for each adult and
child respectively. For the purpose of this regulation, children between three years to twelve years
shall be counted as one child.
(b) the shortest distance between the front edge of the driver’s seat and vertical plane passing through the
nearest edge of the panel shall not be less than 300 millimeters ;
(c) the shortest distance between the front edge of the passenger seat and vertical plane passing through
nearest point of the back rest of a front seat shall not be less than 230 millimeters ;
(d) the minimum clear distance between the back rests of any consecutive two seats fitted shall not be
less than 660 millimeters ;
(e) the seats facing each other shall not be fitted to a motor tricycle ; and
(f) the height of the vehicle shall not be more than one hundred and fifty percent of the width.
4. No person other than the driver of the motor tricycle shall be carried in the driver’s compartment or on the
driver’s seat.
5. The speed limit of the motor tricycle shall be subject to the provisions of the Motor Traffic (Speed Limits)
Regulations, No. 1 of 2012 published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1763/26 of June 22, 2012.
6. The owner or driver of a motor tricycle shall not permit any person to distribute any advertisement, leaflet or
hand bill or to carry any goods extending out from the vehicle while such motor tricycle is in motion on the road.
7. The driver of a motor tricycle which is in motion or parking shall not use or shall not cause to use any instrument
or equipment emanating sound so as to disturb or annoy other road users. The sound shall be regulated to ensure that it is
confined within the motor tricycle and intended for the hearing only of the occupants therein.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2017
3A
8. (1) An owner or a driver of a motor tricycle shall ensure that -
(a) a speedometer is fitted to the motor tricycle in such a position to indicate clearly at all times to the
driver of the motor tricycle the speed at which the motor tricycle is driven
(b) electrically or electronically operated windscreen wiper is fitted in such a manner that the driver of
the motor tricycle could obtain an unobstructed view to the front of the motor tricycle ;
(c) the motor tricycle is fitted with pneumatic tyres and if they are in different sizes shall in like manner,
carry at least one spare inflated tyre from each size ;
(d) every motor tricycle carries the necessary devices, which can be used to fit the spare inflated tyre
quickly to a wheel or axle while the motor tricycle stands on the road ; and
(e) a cover is fitted to protect the driver and the passengers from weather conditions.
(2) An owner of a motor tricycle shall ensure that the following components are fitted to the motor tricycle and
are in good and working condition–
(a) two exterior rear view mirrors ;
(b) head lamps with the head and dip beams and an indicator ;
(c) tail or stop lamp ;
(d) side direction indicator lamp ;
(e) reverse lamp ;
(f) parking lamps ; and
(g) horn.
9. Where the motor tricycle is used for the purpose of carrying persons or goods for a fee or reward -
(a) the following information shall be displaced behind the driver’s seat to be clearly visible to passen-
gers ;
(i) registration number ;
(ii) name and driving license number of the driver ;
(iii) a photograph of the driver (size : 65x50 millimeters) ; and
(iv) telephone numbers of the respective police stations where the vehicle is registered to inform
in case of emergency ; and

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2017
4A
(b) the driver of a motor tricycle shall -
(i) behave in a civil and orderly manner ;
(ii) not smoke ;
(iii) not terminate the hiring before he has been discharged by the hire ; and
(iv) carry passengers to their destinations by the shortest possible route within the shortest time
unless otherwise requested by them,
       at all times while he is on duty.
10. (1) Every owner of a motor tricycle who uses such motor tricycle for the purpose of transportation of persons
or goods for hire or otherwise shall fix a taximeter which shall be operational at all times.
(2) Upon the payment of such fare, it shall be the duty of the driver of such motor tricycle to issue a recepit on
the request of the passenger. Such receipt shall include the distance travelled, vehicle registration number, amount charged
and the date of the receipt.
11. An owner of a motor tricycle shall ensure that no letters, figures or digits except descriptive information
marked thereon by the manufacturer of the motor tricycle is marked on the front and rear of the motor tricycle.
12. The Motor Traffic (Motor Tricycle) Regulations, No. 01 of 2017 published in Extraordinary Gazette
No. 2001/2 of January 09, 2017 are hereby rescinded.
13. In these regulations “motor tricycle” shall have the same meaning as in the Motor Traffic Act, (Chapter 203).
09 - 636
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA