

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2723
Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2700
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"046 – 2017 fkdjeïn¾ ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'11'17
No. 2,046 –  fRiday ,  NoVEmbER  17, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th december, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th November, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2697-b 81226- 5,403 (11/2017)
Note.–    (i) Local authorities Elections (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 02, 2017.
(ii) i ntellectual Property ( amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 02, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2698
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2699
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2700
Posts – vacant
amENdmENt 
mINISTRy Of RuRAL ECONOmIC AffAIRS  
Department of Animal Production and health
REcRuitmENt foR thE PoSt of LEGaL 
officER - GRadE iii of thE ExEcutiVE SERVicE 
catEGoRy - 2017  
aPPLicatioNS have been called for the Post of Legal 
Officer - Grade III of the Executive Service Category 
to be recruited to the department of animal Production 
and health, by the Gazette notification of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2041 dated 13.10.2017.
02. it is hereby informed that initial salary step for each 
grade stated in para. 04 of that notification has been revised 
as follows :
initial salary step for each grade : 
Grade Initial Salary Step Initial Salary Stage
iii Step 01 Rs. 47,615
ii Step 12 Rs. 62,595
i Step 20 Rs. 76,125
3. This notification is published for information of the 
applicants. 
  dr. R. m. 
ariyadasa, 
  director General.
dept. of  animal Production and health. 
11–693
––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND 
INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Department of Ayurveda 
REcRuitmENt to thE PoStS iN tEchNicaL 
SERVicE catEGoRy of SuPERViSoRy 
maNaGEmENt aSSiStaNt (mN-3-3/2016) iN 
thE dEPaRtmENt of ayuRVEda - oPEN 
StREam 
aPPLicatioNS are invited from those who satisfy 
following qualifications by 17.12.2017 for recruitment 
under Scheme of Recruitment to the posts in t echnical 
Service category of Supervisory management assistant 
(mN-3-3/2016) in the department of ayurveda as approved 
by the letter No. PSc/ESt/4/1/37/1/3/2013 of 19.08.2014 
of the Secretary to the Public Service commission for 
following posts remaining vacant in cadre lists approved for 
institutions coming under the purview of the department of 
ayurveda. 
 Post No. of Vacancies
farm manager 03
Extension Officer 02
Extension Officer (Botanical) 02
Extension Officer (Agriculture) 01
Technological Officer 10
Technical Officer (Buildings) 01
1. Salary : 
 1.1 Salary code No. : mN3-2016
 1.2 Salary Scale : Rs. 31,040 -10x445 -11x660 - 10x730 
- 10x750 - Rs. 57,550.
Note.- Salaries are paid on this salary scale with effect 
from 01.01.2020 and payments, up to then, will be 
made subject to provisions of Schedule ii of Public 
administration circular 03/2016. 
2.  Grade of Recruitment.- Grade iii. 
3. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) Passing the General Certificate of Education 
(advanced Level) examination in one sitting in all 
subjects (excluding common General test) of the 
subject stream of Science ; 
and
 (b) Passing the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary Level) Examination with six (06) subjects 
in one sitting with credit Passes for Sinhala/tamil/
English Language, mathematics, Science and 
another subject. 
4. Vocational Qualifications : 
	 4.1	Farm	Manager	and	Extension	Officer	:	
 (i) National diploma in technology offered by 
the university of moratuwa or hardy institute, 
ampara ;
or

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2701
 (ii) National diploma in Engineering Sciences 
offered by the National apprentice and 
industrial training authority ; 
or
 (iii) higher National diploma in Engineering 
offered by the ministry of Education and 
higher Education ; 
or
 (iv) t wo year agriculture diploma offered by 
an institution recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission ; 
or
 (v) diploma in technology offered by the open 
university of Sri Lanka ; 
or
 (vi) Successful completion of Part i of the 
Engineering Examination conducted by Sri 
Lanka institute of Engineers ; 
or
 (vii) completion of National V ocational 
Qualification level 6(NVQ 6) pertaining to the 
field of profession ; 
or
 (viii) Having received other technical qualifications 
recognized by t ertiary and V ocational 
Education commission to be equal in every 
respect to technical qualifications mentioned 
above after consultation with the ministry of 
higher Education and institutions which issued 
the above mentioned technical certificates. 
 4.2	Technological	 Officer	 and	 Technical	 Officer	
(buildings) :
 (i) National diploma in technology offered 
by the university of moratuwa or hardy 
institute, ampara ;
or
 (ii) National diploma in Engineering Sciences 
offered by the National apprentice and 
industrial training authority ; 
or
 (iii) higher National diploma in Engineering 
offered by the ministry of Education and 
higher Education ; 
or
 (iv) diploma in t echnology offered by the open 
university of Sri Lanka ; 
or
 (v) Successful completion of Part i of the 
Engineering Examination conducted by Sri 
Lanka institute of Engineers ; 
or
 (vi) completion of National V ocational 
Qualification Level 6 (NVQ 6) pertaining to 
the field of profession ; 
or
 (vii) Having received other technical qualifications 
recognized by t ertiary and V ocational 
Education commission to be equal in every 
respect to technical qualifications mentioned 
above after consultation with the ministry 
of higher Education and institutions which 
issued the above mentioned technical 
certificates. 
5. Physical qualifications.- Every applicant should 
possess a physical and mental fitness sufficient to serve in 
any area in Sri Lanka and to perform duties of the post. 
6. Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) applicants should posses an excellent character, 
 (iii) Should have completed, in every respect, all 
qualifications required for recruitment to the post 
by the date specified in the advertisement calling 
applications/Gazette. 
7. Age : 
 7.1 minimum limit : Not below 18 years.
 7.2 maximum limit : Not above 30 years. 
8. method of recruitment.- Recruitments will be made 
on results of a written examination and a general 
interview. Qualified persons will be selected by 
subjecting to the general interview a number of 
applicants equal to the number expected to be 
recruited on the order of total marks obtained 
by applicants who have passed their written 
examination. 
 8.1 Written examination : 
Subjects Total Marks Pass Marks
iQ test 100 40%
Subjective 
 t echnical test
100 40%

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2702
 8.2 General Interview : 
  No marks will be given and only qualifications will be checked.
Applicants who satisfy the above qualifications should take action to submit applications prepared in the form 
annexed herewith to Administration Division of this Department or to send to this Department by registered post by 
3.00 p. m. on 17.12.2017 Delayed applications will not be entertained for any reason whatsoever and no responsibility 
will be taken on applications lost in the post. "Recruitment to Posts of technical Service category of Supervisory assistant 
of the department of ayurveda - open" should be written on top left hand corner of the envelope containing applications. it is 
further informed that applications that are incomplete or containing false information will be rejected. (Relevant application 
and further information may be downloaded from the website www.ayurveda.gov.lk)
 m. d. m. d. 
KarunatilleKe, 
 commissioner of ayurveda.
department of ayurveda,
Navinna, 
maharagama,
17th November, 2017.
recruitment to Post of ........................ technical 
service category of suPervisory assistant of the dePartment of sri lanKa ayurveda - oPen stream 
 1. Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
 2. full Name:–––––––––––––.
 3.   (i) Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
    (ii) t elephone No. :–––––––––––––.
 4.  National identity card No. :–––––––––––––.
 5.   (i) date of birth :–––––––––––––.
    (ii) Age on qualified date :  Year :–––––––––––––.  Month :–––––––––––––.  Date :–––––––––––––.
 6. Educational Qualifications : 
    (i) G. c. E. (ordinary Level) :
     index No. :–––––––––––––.  year  :–––––––––––––.
Serial No. Subject Pass Serial No. Subject Pass
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
     *Annex certified copies of certificates.
    (ii) G. c. E. (advanced Level) : 
     index No. :–––––––––––––. y ear :–––––––––––––.
Serial No. Subject Pass Serial No. Subject Pass
1 3
2 4
     *Annex certified copies of certificates.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2703
 7. Professional qualifications : 
Serial No. Course Title Institution Duration 
1  
2  
   * Annex certified copies of certificates. 
 8. Particulars of experience in the relevant field : 
Serial No. Field of experience Duration Institution 
1  
2  
 9. Other qualifications :
  I certify that information I have furnished here are true. I am aware that I may be disqualified if any information 
contained herein is revealed to be incorrect or false before selection and be dismissed from service if so revealed 
after my appointment. further, i also declare that i will be subject to rules and regulations imposed by Secretary to 
the ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine on conducting the examination and to decisions taken on 
release of examination results. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature.
date :–––––––––––––.
Attestation of Signature : 
I affirm that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is submitting this application has placed his/her signature before 
me on..........................
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
date :–––––––––––––.
full name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
Post  :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(Please place the official stamp)
Attestation of signature :
Signature of the applicant appearing in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School or 
a Justice of Peace or an Attorney-at-Law or a staff officer of Public Service. 
11-891

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2704
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR/vOLuNTEER  NAvAL  fORCE
Vacancies	for	Direct	Entry	Officers	Year	-	2018
1. V ACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Naval Force for Male/Female Officers. 
2. Applications are invited from Male/Female candidates possessing the qualifications given below :
 (a) Executive branch (Regular Naval force) :
  Rank - Sub Lieutenant (male)
  Educational Qualification - Bachelor of Science General Degree from a recognized university in                         
Sri Lanka
  age - below 30 years.
 (b) marine Engineering branch (Regular Naval force) :
  Rank - Lieutenant (male)
  Educational Qualification - Bachelor of Science Marine/Mechanical Engineering Degree from a local 
or foreign university recognized by the university Grants commission of            
Sri Lanka
  age - below 32 years.
 (c) Auto mobile Engineering branch (Regular Naval force) :
  Rank - Lieutenant (male)
  Educational Qualification - Bachelor of Science Mechanical/Motor Engineering Degree from a local 
or foreign university recognized by the university Grants commission of           
Sri Lanka
  age - below 32 years.
 (d) medical/Dental branch (Regular Naval force) :
  Acting Sub-Lieutenant (male/female)  
  Educational Qualification - Completion of Part I and II of 3rd Examination of MBBS (Studying in final 
year), Completion of Part I of BDS final year.
  age - between 18 to 26 years.
(2) Sub Lieutenant (male/female) :
 Educational Qualification - Completion of final year of MBBS, Completion of Part II of final year 
of bdS. 
 age - below 30 years. 
(3) Lieutenant (male/female) :
 Educational Qualification - MBBS/BDS qualification or equivalent qualification and permanent 
registration with the Sri Lanka medical council (SLmc).
 age - below 35 years.
 (e) Logistics branch (Regular Naval force) :  
  Rank - Sub Lieutenant (male/female)
  Educational Qualification - Special degree in Business Management, Finance Management, Commerce, 
accounting, Economics, Public administration, assessment. 
  age - below 30 years.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2705
 (f) Shipwright Engineering branch (Regular Naval force) :
  Rank - Lieutenant (male)
  Educational Qualification - Bachelor of Science in Mechanical/production/Material Science Engineering 
or Naval architecture from a local or foreign university recognized by the 
university Grants commission.  
  age - below 32 years.
 (g) Civil Engineering (sites) branch (Regular/volunteer Naval force) :
  Rank - Lieutenant (male)
  Educational Qualification - Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission or successful completion of Part i and Part ii 
(old syllabus) or Part i, ii and iii (new syllabus) of civil Engineering Science 
Examination conducted by the institution of Engineers Sri Lanka or other 
qualification accepted by the Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka.
  age - below 32 years.
 (h) Architectural branch (Regular/volunteer Naval force) :
  Rank - Lieutenant (male)
  Educational Qualification - Bachelor of Architecture degree from the University of Moratuwa or 
successful completion of first and second phase of the professional course 
conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Architects or equivalent qualification 
accepted by the Sri Lanka institute of architects.
  age - below 32 years.
 (i) Executive branch (volunteer Naval force) :
  Rank - acting Sub Lieutenant (male/female)
  Educational Qualification - Recognized university of Sri Lanka or completion of National Diploma 
in technology and one year administrative/executive grade experience in 
Public or private sector or higher diploma from an institution recognized by 
the government and two years administrative/executive grade experience in 
public or private sector. 
  age - below 30 years.
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for the enlistment to the                     
Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Naval force.
 (a) Nationality   :- must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) age :- Should be as indicated for relevant branches as at 26th december 2017.
 (c) height (Regular)  :- male - Should not be below 168cm.
    female - Should not be below 160cm 
  height (V olunteer) :- male - Should not be below 165cm.
    female - Should not be below 157cm 
 (d) Weight :- male - Should not be below 52Kg.
  (Regular/V olunteer)  female - Should not be below 41kg.
 (e) chest :- male - Should not be below 81cm.
  (Regular/V olunteer)
 (f) color Vision :- Std ii (actual vision)
  (Regular/V olunteer)
 (g) Visual  acuity  :- Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6 
  (Regular/V olunteer)  6/6 to 6/12 without spectacles for Medical/Dental officers and students 
(corrected by spectacles to 6/6)
 (h) civil Statu s :- married/unmarried

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2706
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports. 
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the aforesaid requirements of Para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On 
arrival for the first interview, height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, age, vision and weight 
are below the standards specified in the Gazette Notification will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special 
skill or value to the service may be considered at the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy even though the 
candidate may not have the requisite height and age. 
6. Conditions of Service : 
 (a) Candidates will be enlisted into the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Naval Force as male/female officers and 
will undergo a basic training course. the duration of the course will depend on the branch for which the 
enlistment is made. 
 (b) Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/female officers will be required to undergo a training at any place 
in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy in consultation with the 
ministry of defence. 
 (c) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any country of the world at any time. 
 (d) During the period of training and thereafter, Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/female officers will be 
subject to Naval Law. 
 (e) In the event a Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/female officer voluntarily terminates his/her candidature 
during the training, he/she will be required to refund to the Government of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred 
up to that time by the Government of Sri Lanka on account of such regular/volunteer male/female officer. 
 (f) If at any time during his/her course a Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/female officer is reported by 
the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her control to 
qualify for a commission, he/she will be required to refund to the Sri Lanka Navy all expenses in curredon 
his/her training and will be required to enter into a bond to this effect with the commander of the Sri 
Lanka Navy acting on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka. 
 (g) During the period of training, Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/female officers will be provided with 
food and accommodation by the wardrooms of the Sri Lanka Navy. 
 (h) Married male/female officers may be provided with married quarters if available. Recovery of rental will 
be as applicable to public servants. 
7. Official Language Requirements.– the selected candidates will be required to comply with regulations and 
articles already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Official Language Act, No. 
33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances.- the payments will be made with effect from 01.01.2016 as per the management Services 
circular No. 03/2016. 
Description Acting Sub Lieutenant Sub Lieutenant Lieutenant
basic Salary Rs. 28,897.00 Rs. 32.807.00 Rs. 38,333.00
cost of Living Rs. 7,800.00 Rs. 7,800.00 Rs. 7,800.00
uniform cleaning allowance Rs. 255.00 Rs. 255.00 Rs. 255.00
hard line allowance (Non - operational 
areas)
Rs. 600.00 Rs. 600.00 Rs. 600.00
Special additional allowance Rs. 3,000.00 Rs. 3,000.00 Rs. 3,000.00
adjustiment allowance Rs. 5,373.00 Rs. 4,715.00 Rs. 3,833.00
Ration money allowance Rs. 16,138.00 Rs. 16,138.00 Rs. 16,138.00
total Rs. 63,000.00 Rs. 67,240.00 Rs. 71,880.00

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2707
 (a) adjustment allowance will be added entirely to the basic Salary with effect from the 01.01.2020 as per the 
management Services circular No. 03/2016. 
 (b) Ration Money Allowance will be given to male/female officers who are victualling out. 
 (c) Qualification pay, where applicable, will be given up to a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month. 
 (d) Three sets of railway warrants per year will be issued (for male/female officer, spouse, children and 
dependents if applicable).
 (e) An additional set of railway warrants or imbursement of bus fare for officers living in wardrooms to visit 
their homes once a month. 
 (f) uniforms and ancillary items will be issued free of charge.
 (g) Medical facilities will be provided free of charge (for male/female officer, spouse, children and dependents 
if applicable).
 (h) Married male/female officers who do not occupy government married quarters, will be entitled to a rent 
allowance of Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250. 
 (i) Medical/Dental male/female officers will be entitled to extra duty allowance and 1/20 allowance after the 
internship as approved by the ministry of health. 
 (j) Engineering officers will be entitled to a special allowance approved by the Government. 
9. Instructions to applicants :-
 (a) application should be in the form of the specimen given below and should be completed clearly in 
detail in the applicant's own handwriting. duly completed applications should be forwarded to Senior 
Staff Officer (Recruitments), P. O. Box 593, Navy Headquarters, Colombo 01 under registered cover 
on or before 1200 hrs. on 26th december 2017. the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application should bear "Direct Entry - Regular/V olunteer Male/Female Officers". Applications received 
after the closing date and time and applications that do not comply with the requirements stipulated in the 
Gazette Notification will not be entertained. For further information please visit the website  www.navy.lk  or 
call 011-2215154/011-2215118.
 (b) candidates who are in Public Service/corporations/boards/civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through the heads of departments/corporations/boards/civil Establishments with a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents in the interview or any 
other occasion and certified copies of the following documents when forwarding the applications :
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth;
 (2) Certificates of Educational/higher Educational/professional Educational/degree qualifications 
required for the branch applied for;
 (3) School leaving Certificate/Character Certificate;
 (4) Grama Niladari certificate obtained within six months ;
 (5) Certificates of professional/technical experience (if any) gained from a recognized institution ;
 (6) Two recent character certificates. (From responsible person who knows the applicant for more than 
two years or the present employer);   
 (7) Certificates of sports activities, cadetting etc.
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce the documents when requested will not be considered. 
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form. 
 (f) The Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for the loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2708
10. Any Statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
or dismissal when the false statement is revealed before the selection or after the selection, respectively.
11. Selection Interviews :-
 (a) Candidates who fulfill the above requirement should undergo a preliminary medical test conducted by the 
Sri Lanka Navy. candidates so passed will be required to undergo a Physical Endurance test as mentioned 
below. candidates those who pass the Physical Endurance test shall have to appear in an interview as 
prescribed by the Commander of Sri Lanka Navy. The final selection will be made from the so selected 
candidates upon subjecting them to another interview before a Selection board appointed by the ministry 
of defence.
 (b) Requirements to pass the Physical Endurance test :
Age Group 800M RUN CURL UP (2MN) PUSH UP (2MN)
18-24 male 3.30-5.30 minutes 19 or more 21 or more
18-24 female 4-6 minutes 13 or more 05 or more
25-29 male 4-5.30 minutes 19 or more 20 or more
25-29 female 4.30-6.30 minutes 12 or more 03 or more
30-34 male 4.30-6.30 minutes 15 or more 14 or more
30-34 female 5-7 minutes 09 or more 02 or more
35-39 male 5-7 minutes 13 or more 12 or more
35-39 female 5.30-7.30 minutes 06 or more 02 or more
 (c) only the candidates who successfully complete the Physical Endurance test will be called for the 
Preliminary interview on the same day and those who pass the preliminary interview will be called for the 
Second interview. the candidates selected from the second interview will be called for the final interview 
and the candidates who obtain the highest marks from the respective branches will be selected according 
to the vacancies available. 
 (d) candidates selected for the interviews will be informed in writing and by post, of the date, time and place 
of such interviews. travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
 (e) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he/she should produce his/her National 
identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons. 
 (f) Candidates likely to be qualified after the final interview will be required to present themselves before a 
Sri Lanka Navy medical board.
 (g) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his/her a testimonial. any form 
of canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such 
candidate.
 (h) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
 (i) candidates selected for dental/medical branch who are undergoing the university studies will be released 
to respective universities after enlistments necessary with full pay leave to complete their studies. in such 
event relevant candidates will be required .
Note : this Gazette notification is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English. In the event of any inconsistency between 
Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 SS 
ranasinghe,WWV , RWP, uSP, ndu, psc, aoWc.
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval headquarters,
P.o. box 593,
colombo 01.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2709
aPPLicatioN  foR  REGuLaR/VoLuNtEER  
maLE/fEmaLE  officERS  iN  SRi  LaNKa  NaVy
01. Nationality :––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if registration, quote number and date 
of the certificate)
02. branch and Post applied for :––––––––––.
03. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
04. National identity card Number :––––––––––.
05. Permanent address :––––––––––.
06. Postal address :––––––––––.
07. E-mail address :––––––––––.
08. date of birth :––––––––––.
09. age :
 y ears :––––––––. months :–––––––.days:––––––––. 
(as at 26.12.2017):
10. height :––––––––––, (cm) 
 chest :–––––––––,(cm) Weight :––––––––––, (kg)
11. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :                           
––––––––––.
12.  district :––––––––––.
13. Electorate :––––––––––.
14. Grama Niladhari division :––––––––––.
15.telephone Number :––––––––––.
16. civil Status :––––––––––.
17. Gender :––––––––––.
18. Schools attended :––––––––––.
19. Particulars of School or university attended :
Name 
of the 
School/
University
Type of 
examination
Year of 
examination
Subjects 
Passed 
(including 
grading)
G. c. E. (o/L)
G. c. E. (a/L)
other
20.  Particulars of employment since leaving School/
university (if applicable) :
  Name and address Nature of Period of Service
  of employer employment      To          From
21. Particulars of Parents:-
 Full Name Place of Occupation Present 
   Birth  Address
father
mother
22.  Any Special qualification for the post :––––––––––.
23.  details of available achievements in sports (Give details 
of competitions and sports teams participated in with 
dates and achievements reached) :–––––––––.
24. other achievements at School/university or in outside 
organizations (Give details with dates/years etc.) :                 
––––––––––.
25. any previous service in the armed forces or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or boy Scouts force organization 
:–––––––––.
26. have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy 
force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give 
details and the outcome of such applications :––––––––.
27. have you had a conviction or received a suspended 
sentence by civil or military court, if so give details 
:––––––––––.
28. if employed in a Government department or in the 
Public Sector/board/corporation (including the central 
bank, State bank, universities, civil organizations 
controlled by the Government companies etc.) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
29. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2710
30. declaration to be signed by the applicant :
i declare on my honor that aforesaid details given by me 
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
i have read and understood the procedure which will be 
adopted and the regulations which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for the commission in the 
Sri Lanka Navy, published in the Gazette of the Government 
of Sri Lanka.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
11–882 
––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Rural Economy
REcRuitmENt to thE PoStS of VEtERiNaRy 
SuRGEoN GRadE iii of SRi LaNKa aNimaL 
PRoductioN aNd hEaLth SERVicE  - 2017
oN the direction of the Public Service commission, 
applications are called from graduates of Veterinary 
Medicine to select qualified persons for One hundred 
and twelve (112) posts of Veterinary Surgeon Grade iii 
of the Sri Lanka animal Production and health Service. 
applications prepared as per the specimen form given at the 
end of this notification should be sent by registered post to 
the director General, department of animal Production and 
health, P. o. box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya to reach on or 
before the under mentioned date. the "Post of Veterinary 
Surgeon Grade iii of Sri Lanka animal Production and 
helth Service" should be clearly stated at the top left hand 
corner of the envelope.
 (a) the last date for call of application is 15th december 
2017.
Note -
* any complaint regarding the loss or delay of an 
application or a related letter in the post will not 
be considered. Losses arising by delaying the 
applications till the last date for applications should 
be borne by the applicants. applications made by 
those not fulfilling the basic qualification will be 
rejected.
1. Method or recruitment of the service :
 (i) Recruitment to the existing vacancies of the post 
of Vaterinary Surgeon will be made based on the 
merit list published by the faculty of Veterinary 
medicine of the university of Peradeniya. the 
applicants with qualifications in veterinary 
medicine from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission will be placed 
at the end of the merit list according to order 
of the registration date pertaining to the year of 
completion of the requirements for registration in 
the Sri Lanka Veterinay council.
 (ii) a number equal to one hundred and ten percent 
(110%) of the number of vacancies will be called 
for an interview and a number equal to the number 
of vacancies will be recruited according to the 
order in the merit list. No marks will be given for 
the interview.
 (iii) the number to be appointed and the effective date 
of such appointment will be decided based on the 
order by the Public Service commission.
2. Conditions of engagement in service :
 (i) this post is permanent. it includes a pension 
scheme. you should abide the policy decision of 
the government which will be taken in the future 
regarding the pension scheme entitled for your 
appointment.
 (ii) The Selected candidates will be appointed to fill a 
vacancy in the post of veterinary surgeon in the Sri 
Lanka animal Prdocution and health Service.
 (iii) it is required that you obtain a relevant level 
of proficiency specified as per the Public 
administration circular 1/2014 and the other 
circulars incidental to it. An officer selected to 
serve with qualifications in a language other than 
an Official Language is required to obtain the 
proficiency in an Official Language at level III 
before he is made permanent in the post.
 (iv) this appointment is subject to  the terms and 
conditions of the service minute of Sri Lanka 
animal Production and health Service published 
in the Government Gazette No. 1840/51 of 
13.12.2013 and to the amended orders made to it 
from time to time, to the Procedural Rules of the 
Public Service commission, to the Establishment 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2711
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka, to the financial Regulations of the 
government and to other departmental regulations.
3. Salary Scale. – as per schedule 01 of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016, the 
monthly salary scale applicable to this post is Rs.47,615 - 10 
x 1,335 - 8 x 1,630 - 17 x 2,170 - 110,895 - (SL-1-2016). the 
payment of salary will be made according to the regulations 
mentioned in schedule ii of the above circular.
4. Educational qualifications. – a degree in Veterinary 
Science obtained from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission.
5. Age Limit.– Should not be below 21 years and above 
the maximum age limit of 35 years on closing date of 
applications.
6. Physical qualifications :
 (i) ability to serve in any part of Sri Lanka by every 
candidate, and
 (ii) Possession of adequate physical and mental fitness 
to perform duties in the post, and the sound state 
of the physical health should be certified by a 
medical report.
7. Other qualifications :
 (i) the applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) the applicants should be of excellent character,
 (iii) the applicants must have registered in the 
Veterinary council of Sri Lanka under the 
Veterinary surgeons and Practitioners act,
 (iv) The fulfillment of all the required qualifications 
for recruitment to the post by the closing date for 
applications. 
8. The interview : 
 8.1 General interview : (no marks will be given)
  Objective : To check the fulfilment of the 
requirements of the notification published as per 
the Scheme of Recruitment and the assessment of 
the physical fitness.  
9. Method of application : 
 (i) the application should be made using both sides 
of a 22x29cm a4 size paper, as per the format 
given in the specimen application form.
 (ii) The originals of the following certificates should 
be presented once informed for the interview : 
 (a) Birth certificate,
 (b) Degree certificate and other relevant 
certificates,
 (c) Two character certificates obtained recently 
(one of which should be from the Grama 
Niladhari of the area and certified by the 
divisional Secretary),
 (d) Certificates of the highest examinations 
passed in Sinhala/t amil and English 
languages. 
 (e) Certificate of Registration as a Veterinary 
Surgeon in the Sri Lanka Veterinary council. 
10. Other provisions :
 (i) the Public Service commission reserves the 
authority to take decisions on matters not set out 
in this Gazette notification.
 (ii) the Public Service commission reserves the right 
of making the final decision on the filling/not 
filling the vacancies, or filling only a part of the 
vacancies.
 (iii) the Sinhala version will prevail in case of any 
inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil and 
English versions of this Gazette Notification.
 (iv)  the candidature of any candidate will be cancelled 
if it is revealed to have no qualifications.
 (v) if it is revealed that an applicant has deliberately 
furnished some information knowing it is false, or 
deliberately suppressed an important information, 
then he/she is liable to be dismissed from service.
by order of the Public Serive commission.
 S. senanayaKe,
 Secretary (Acting).
ministry of Rural Economy,
31st october, 2017.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2712
Specimen Form oF appLication
aPPlication for recruitment for the v acancies in the Post of veterinary surgeon grade iii of 
the sri lanKa animal Production and health service
(For Office use)
01.  (i) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
   in Sinhala :––––––––––––.
   in English (block capitals)
      
  (ii) Names denoted by the initails (in English block capitals) :
   
02. National identity card No. :  
03. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
  (any change of the address should be intimated without delay.) 
04.  (i) Provincial council :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) district :–––––––––––––.
   of the permanent residence 
05. date of birth : year :–––––––––––––.  month :–––––––––––––.  date :–––––––––––––.
  age as at the closing date of applications :y ears :–––––––––––––.  months :–––––––––––––.  days :–––––––––––––. 
06. (a)  Whether you area a Sri Lankan :–––––––––––––.
 (b)  Ethnicity (Sinhala/Sri Lanka tamil/indian tamil/muslim/other) :–––––––––––––. 
07. (a)  Gender :–––––––––––––.
 (b)  Whether married/single or widowed :–––––––––––––. 
08. Educational qualificatio ns :-
 
Degree/Post-graduate Degree obtained Class University Date of completion of the degree
1.
2.
3.
09. Number and date of registration at the Sri Lanka Veterinary council :–––––––––––––. 
10. Particulars of service : (if holding a permanent post at present)* :
 
Present Post Period of service Service station Department/Provincial Council
From To
1.
2.
3.
11.    i do hereby certify that the Particulars furnished by me in this application ae true and accurate. i am aware that i will 
be disqualified if any particulars indicated here are detected false or incorrect before the selection and I will be subjected 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2713
to dismissal from the service without any compensation 
if detected after the  appointment. i also certify signing 
below that, i have not been convicted of any criminal 
offence by any court of law.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
(* applicable only to the applicants holding a permanent 
post in the government)
1. Certificate of the Head of the Department/Establishment :
i, certify that the above applicant mr./mrs./miss….......... 
is an officer of this Department/...........… Provincial Council 
holding a post of ..........., and that the particulars mentioned 
in the application are correct according to his/her personal 
file. I also inform that he/she can/cannot be released from 
this department/from the Provincial Public Service if this 
officer is selected to this post.
(strike off inapplicable words)
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 head of the department/Establishment.
date :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
address :––––––––––––.
11-800
––––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Limited Recruitment to the Post of Assistant Director 
(Sports)	of	Supervisory	Category	III	of	Sports	Officers'	
Combined Service in the Department of Sports 
Development – 2017
aS directed by the Public Service commission, applications 
are invited from government officers, who have the 
following qualifications for 03 posts of Assistant Director 
(Sports) of  Supervisory category iii in the department of 
Sports development.
candidates should submit their applications prepared 
according to the specimen form appearing at the end of 
this notice, by Registered post, before the deadline, to the 
director General, department of Sports development, No. 
09, Philip Gunawardane mawatha, colombo 07.
the top left hand corner of the envelop, should bear 
the legend "Limited Recruitment to the post of assistant 
director (Sports) – 2017"
 
(a) closing date of the applications is 04.12.2017.
Note : complaints to the effect that any application 
or a related document has been lost or delayed in 
transit will not be entertained and the applicants 
may bear such risk, on their own.
01. Recruitment Procedure.– candidates, who have 
fulfilled qualifications as stated in the notice, will be recruited 
according to the sequence of total marks obtained at the 
competency Evaluation interview, which will be conducted 
by an interview board of competency evaluation appointed 
by the Public Service commission. the competency 
evaluation interview will be conducted according to a 
marking scheme appearing under No. 8, approved by the 
Public Service commission.
Number of appointees and the date of appointment will 
be decided as directed by the Public Service commission.
02. Salary Scale.– this post carries a monthly salary 
scale of Rs. 47,615 – 10 x 1335 – 8 x 1630 – 17 x 2170 – 
Rs. 110,895/- (SL-1-2016) (Salaries are paid as mentioned 
in schedule ii according to the provisions of Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 of dated 25.02.2016.
03. Terms and conditions of service :
 
 i.  this post is pensionable, and you should 
contribute to the W & oP and you may 
contribute therefore in such a manner as 
decided by the Government from time to time.
 II.  Those officers who are appointed to this post 
will be subject to an acting period of one year.
 iii. Should reach the required level of language 
proficiency within 5 years according to 
Public administration circular 1/2014 and 
consequential circulars. those who have 
been recruited through a medium which is not 
an official language should obtain required 
language proficiency during such acting period.
 (iv) this post in subject to conditions of the 
Procedural Rules and Regulations of the Public 
Service commission, Establisment code of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations and other departmental 
Regulations.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2714
04.		Educational,	Professional	qualifications	and	experience	:
 (i)  Should be a Supra Grade officer in the sports officers' service of the Department of Sports Development
  or
 (ii)  Should be a Supervisory Management Assistant Technological Grade I officer of Sports Officers' Combined 
service of the department of Sports development
  or
 (iii) Should be a Supervisory Management Assistant Technological Grade II of Sports officers' combined 
service of the department of Sports development, and should possess s degree related to Sports or 
Management field, obtained from a university recognized by the University Grant Commission
  or
 (iV) Should be an officer of Sports Officers' Combined Service in the Department of Sports Development, with 
10 years active and satisfactory period of service and should have obtained a Degree related to the field of 
Sports from a university recognized by the university Grants commission.
05.	Physical	Qualifications.–	candidates should be of sound physical and mental condition to serve in any part of 
the island.
06. Age limit.– Not Relevant
07.	Other	Qualifications	:
 I.  Post should have been confirmed.
 ii.  Should have completed a satisfactory service period of 5 years immediately preceding.
 III. Should have passed the required efficiency bar examinations.
 IV . Should have obtained language proficiency at required level.
 V . Should have completed all requisite qualifications for the post as at the date of calling applications.
08.	 Competency	Evaluation	Interview.–	marks will be given by a competency Evaluation interview board, 
appointed by the Public Service Commission, and Qualification too will be checked at the same interview,
Structured marking scheme
Main Heads for Marking Marks
01 additional Service Experience
i. 05 marks for each year from the date of appointment to the post 
of Supervisory Management Assistant in the sports officers' 
combined service  (Head Quarters Sports Officer)  
or
ii. 04 marks for each year from the date of appointment to the 
post of Supervisory management assistant technology Service 
Category Grade I in the sports officers' combined service (Sports 
coach- Grade i)
or
iii. 03 marks for each year from the date of appointment to the 
post of Supervisory management assistant technology Service 
Category Grade II in the sports officers' combined service.
or
iV . 02 marks for each year from the date of completion of 10 years 
in the post of sports officers' combined service at Department of 
Sports development.
30

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2715
Main Heads for Marking Marks
02 Additional education qualifications
 for a Post Graduate degree – 25 marks  
 for a Post Graduate diploma – 20 marks
 for a degree (Sports or Physical training, 
 Sports management or administration) - 15 marks 
for a diploma – 10 marks 
For a Certificate Course – (not less than 06 months) – 05 marks
(Marks will be given when Degree is not a preliminary qualification)
25
03 Special skills performed in the post 
of coach and Sports Officer (Head 
Quarters)
i. as a coach or administrator or organizer or holding other post
1. National Level Post – 10 marks
2. South asian Level Post – 10 marks
3. for commonwealth and World  
championship – 05 marks 
II. 02 marks each for Certificates of commendation obtained by 
230b common format (maximum 10 marks)
20
04 additional vocational experience
Courses followed relating to the field of Sports or Administration
Local
1. one year or more – 10 marks
2.  Six months or more – 07 marks
3. more than two weeks - 05 marks
4. more than 2 days but less than 2 weeks - 03 marks
foreign
1. one year or more – 10 marks
2.  Six months or more – 08 marks
3. more than two weeks - 06 marks
4. more than 2 days but less than 2 weeks - 04 marks
20
05 aptitudes shown at the interview 05 marks 05
Total 100
Certificates submitted for recruitment to the post in sports officers' combined service, will not be considered again 
for giving marks.
09. Applications should be prepared in 22 - 29 cm size A4 sheets and information from 01 - 08 should be on first 
page and from 08 to the last should be on second page. applicant should himself/ herself prepare the application by his / 
her own handwriting legibly. incomplete applications will be rejected. hereby it is further informed that applications which 
do not conform to the specifications will be rejected without notice. A Copy of the applications may be retained with the 
applicant for his / her use. Applicant should himself/ herself be satisfied with the application perfected by himself/ herself 
according to the specimen form. otherwise it will be rejected. applications should be prepared as per the specimen form. 
Receipt of application will not be acknowledged.
N. B.
 (a) No documents or copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
 (b) applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be considered.
10. Providing bogus information.– if any of the information provided in the application found to be false or 
incorrect, before recruitment to the post, your candidature will be cancelled, and if such information was found to be 
incorrect or false after recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss from the post subject to the relevant procedures.
11. Procedural Rules and Regulations of the Public Service commission, circulars with regard to the public 
services, issued from time to time, as well as the Service minutes relevant to Grade iii of executive service category and the 
amendments made thereto are relevant to this post. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2716
12. any matter not mentioned in this Gazette notification 
should be dealt with the final decision of the Public Service 
commission and the public service commission will reach 
a final decision as regards filling of vacancies or not filling 
vacancies or filling a portion of vacancies.
by order of the Public Service commission.
 Jayantha WiJeratne.
 Secretary.
ministry of Sports,
No. 09, Philip Gunawardena mawatha, 
colombo 07.
LimitEd REcRuitmENt to thE PoSt of 
aSSiStaNt diREctoR (SPoRtS) of SuPERViSoRy 
catEGoRy iii of SPoRtS officERS' combiNEd 
SERVicE iN thE dEPaRtmENt of SPoRtS 
dEVELoPmENt 
sPecimen aPPlication 
01. (i) Name with initials :
  (a) (in Sinhala) :––––––––––.
  (b) (in English) :––––––––––.
 (ii) Names denoted by initials :
  (a) (in Sinhala) :––––––––––.
  (b) (in English) :––––––––––.
02. (i) Private address :––––––––––.
 (ii) Postal address for admission :––––––––––.
 (iii) Official Address :––––––––––.
 (iv) telephone No. (mobile) :––––––––––.
03. Gender :––––––––––.
  (mark the relevant cage)
 male  - 0
 female  - 1
04. National identity card No. : 
05. date of birth : 
  y ear :––––––––.  month :––––––––. date :––––––––.
06. age as at 01.06.2017 :
  y ears :–––––––.  months :–––––––. days :––––––––.
07.  (A) Have you fulfilled all the qualifications required 
in the first paragraph in the Gazette notification of 
calling applications ? :––––––––––.  
   Of the I, II, III, IV which category qualifies you 
accroding to Section 1.1 of the Gazette notification? : 
 (i) date of Graduation :––––––––––.
 (ii) university /institute :––––––––––.
 (iii) Registered Number :––––––––––.
 (iv) External/internal :––––––––––.
 (v) degree :––––––––––.
 (vi) Subjects :––––––––––.
  (b) Present Post :––––––––––.
   Grade :––––––––––.
   date of appointment (to the post) :––––––––––.
   Date of confirmation in the post :––––––––––.
   Salary code and Salary Scale :––––––––––.
   if there are several service periods relevant to 
be applied, information about those active and 
satisfactory service periods should be mentioned in 
the table given below : 
  (C) According to conditions in the first paragraph of the 
Gazette notification, active and satisfactory service 
period in a approved post as at 01.06.2017 :––––––.
  
Service/
Grade
Salary Code according 
to relevant Public 
Administration 
Circular  
ex:MN 3-2016
Date of 
Appointment
08. Additional educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
09. Special talents performed in the post of Sports coach 
and Sports Officer (Head Quarters) :––––––––––.
10. Additional vocational qualifications :––––––––––.
11.  (i) Whether you have earned all requisite increments 
within 05 years immediately proceeding as at 
01.06.2017 ? :––––––––––.
  (ii) Whether you have been found guilty of any 
disciplinary action other than warning ? :––––––––.
12. Applicant's Certificate : 
  (i) i do hereby certify that the information provided in 
this application by me are true and accurate. 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2717
  (ii) I am aware that I will be liable to be disqualified 
for appointment to this post and dismissed in the 
event such information is found to be false after 
appointment. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
13. Certificate of the Head of the Department : 
the applicant, mr./mrs./miss ................................ is 
working in this department in a permanent and pensionable 
post as a ................................... (post) and has earned all his/
her increments within last five yers. He/She has not been 
subjected to any disciplinary action (other than warning) 
and any action is not being instituted against him/her at 
present. 
if he/she is selected to this post, he/she can/cannot be 
released from the post he/she is presently holding. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the head of the department/
  institution. 
date :––––––––––.
11–778
–––––––––––––––
ThE DEPARTmENT Of PRISONS - SRI LANkA 
Recruitment to the Post of Prison Guard - 2017
(On Open basis)
aPPLicatioNS are, hereby called up from both male and 
female citizens of Sri Lanka with the quailfication stipulated 
hereunder, for the Post of Prison, Guard. (male/female) 
now vacant at the department of Prisons. 
02. No. of Vacancies and filling Vacancies : 
 2.1  there are one thousand and Sixty eight (1,068) 
Vacancies (male) and one hundred sixteen (116) 
Vacancies (female) in the Post of Prison Guard. 
95% of these vacancies will be filled openly and 
remaining 5% will be filled from a structured 
interview for prison officers who are already in 
service at the department of Prisons. 
  2.2 Appointing authority has the power of filling all 
vacancies or filling certain number of vacancies or 
not filling all vacancies. 
03. Duties of the Post.– assistance in administration of 
prisons, provision of proetction to inmates and assistance in 
escorting of inmates. 
04. Salary Scale.– Rs. 29,540 - 300x 7 - 370 x 27 - 
Rs. 41,630 (RS. 1 2016). Salary will be paid in terms of 
the provisions of the Public administration circular No. 
03/2016. in addition to above mentioned salary scale, special 
allowances will be paid as per duties performed monthly. 
05. Required Qualifications : 
 (a) Age Limit :
  in terms of the Gazette notification, age shall not 
be below Eighteen (18) years and not over thirty 
(30) years to the closing date of applications. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications.– Shall have passed 
the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary 
Level) Examination in not more than two setting 
in six (06) subjects including Sinhala/t amil/
English and mathematics with two (02) credit 
passes. 
 (c) Physical Qualifications : 
  male applicants –
 (i) height : minimum height of 05 feet and 04 
inches,
 (ii) chest : chest measurement of 32 inches 
deflated.
  female applicants –
 (i) height : minimum height of 05 feet and 02 
inches.
 (d) Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Shall be a Sri Lankan citizen, 
 (ii) Shall be physically fit and have an excellent 
moral character,
 (iii) conviction by any court of law for any 
offence relating to immoral character is a 
disqualification for appointment to the above 
post. 
 (iv) Qualification mentioned from (a) to (c) must 
be completed in every respect by the closing 
date of calling appilcations. 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2718
06. Scheme of Recruitment.– for those who will qualify 
as per applications, the department of Prisons will hold 
an interview for examining preliminary qualifications. 
only applicants, who will pass the interview, shall pass the 
physical fitness test going to be held on same day :
 (i) finishing 1,000m running in 03 minutes and 44 
seconds (for male applicants).
 (ii) a  test for female applicants will be held as well. 
Only applicants, who will pass the physical fitness test, 
will be called up for the structured interview. according to 
the merit order of aggregate marks  received by applicants 
and number of existing vacancies, it will be recruited to the 
post of prison guard. 
07. Structured Interview : 
No. Field to be examined for marks Maximum 
Marks
01 additional Educational and other 
qualifications
25
02 Professional qualifications 15
03 Sport Skills 30
04 Leadership and community services 25
05 Skills shown at the interview 05
Total 100
08. Furnishing false Information.– accurate information 
must be furnished carefully in filling the application. If 
a candidate is found by the appointing authority to be 
ineligible, his canidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage 
prior to, during or after the examination. if it is found that 
a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that 
they are false or if he has willfully suppressed any material 
fact, he shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service. 
09. Conditions of Appointments.– this appointment is 
permanent and pensionable. you shall be subjected to a 
policy decision taken by the government in future on the 
pension scheme to which you are entitled. further, you 
shall make contributions to the Widows and orphans'/
Widowers and orphans' Pension Scheme. you shall make 
your contributions in such manner determined from time to 
time by the government. 
10. Conditions of Service : 
 (a) this appointment is subject to three (03) years 
probationary period. 
 (b) Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed 
within three (03) years from the date of 
recruitment. 
 (c) a  selected candidate shall be appointed to the 
Post of Prison Guard on general conditions of 
governing appointments in the pubilc service, 
provisions approved in relation to the Post of 
Prison Guards and any amendments and due 
amendments to these provisions by the Public 
Service commission through its letter No. 
PSc/ESt-02-01-18/02/2014 and dated 20th 
November, 2014.
 (d) Prison Guards appointed are liable to serve 
in any prison in the island. ten (10) years 
compulsory service at the department of 
Prisons after training. those who are going 
to desert the post during the training or those 
who are going to desert the post before due 
time while in service in terms of agreement, 
are liable to pay all expenses in relation to 
training to the department of prisons. 
 (e) Officers appointed as Prison Guards shall 
agree to stay in bachelor quarters in prisons 
away from home during the first five years of 
appointment. 
11. Selection Procedure : 
 (a) Those applicants who pass the fitness test, will be 
called up for final interview. It will be recruited to 
the Post of Guard according to the order of marks 
obtained from Structured interview and existing 
number of vacancies. 
12. Implementation of State Language Policy .– in 
accordance with the Public administration circular No. 
01/2014 and date 21st January, 2014 issued by the ministry 
of Public administration and home affaris and its related 
circulars, all officers appointed shall achieved other state 
langauge efficiency within five (05) years of appointed to 
the state service in addition to state langauge of recruited to 
the public service. 
13. Application Procedure : 
 13.1 Preparation of Application :
 13.1.1 application shall be prepared in accordance 
with the application format attached to this 
notice. if not, application will be rejected. 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2719
 13.1.2 application shall be on paper size (21cm x 
29cm/8.5" x 12"/a4) using both sides. 
 13.2 Completion of Application : 
 13.2.1 Attestation of Applicant's Signature : 
  the signature of the candidate shall be attested 
by a Principal of a Government School, a 
Justice of the Peace, a commissioner of oaths, 
a Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer in 
the Armed Forces, an Officer with an annual 
salary of Rs. 240,360.00 or in case of an 
officer in Public/Provincial Service by the 
Head of the relevant institution. Officers who 
are already in Public Service, shall forward 
his/her application through his/her head of 
department to reach the commissioner of 
Examinations before closing date. 
 13.2.2 any application not in due format and 
incomplete state will be rejected without 
prior notice. applicants shall bear the lost 
incurred due to not completing applications 
properly. 
 13.3 Forwarding the Application : 
 13.3.1 "Recruitment to the Post of Prison Guard 
- 2017" shall be mentioned on top left 
hand corner of the envelope containing 
the application. 
 13.3.2 completed application shall be sent under 
registered post on or before 18.12.2017 to 
the official address of the Superintendent 
of Prisons of a prison institute where you 
can simply face the physical fitness test. 
Please see the Schedule - 01 for the list of 
addresses of prison institutes. applicant 
shall bear the responsibility to the 
application sent to the prison headquarters 
or other institutes not mentioned in the 
Schedule -1.
 13.3.3 No complaint regarding applications 
will be accepted for the lost in posting 
applications or applicants receiving after 
18.12.2017.
14. any matter not mentioned here will be decided by 
the commissioner General of Prisons. an candidates are 
obliged to follow rules and regulations mentioned in the 
Gazette notification and conditions of this notice. 
15. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this Gazette notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
(Note.– travelling expenses or any other expenses 
will not be paid for the applicants who are going to 
participate in examinations or interviews)
 h. m. N. c. 
dhanasinghe, 
 commissioner General of Prisons. 
Prison headquarters, 
No. 150, baseline Road, 
colombo 09,
12th November, 2017.
schedule 01
No. District Prison Institute Addresses of Prison Institutes
1. colombo center for Research and training in 
corrections (cRtc), 
baseline Road, 
clombo 09.
assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
center for Research and training in 
corrections (cRtc),
 baseline Road, 
colombo 09
2. Gampaha mahara Prison Superintendent of Prisons, 
mahara Prison,  
Ragama
3. Kalutara Kalutara Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Kalutara Prison,  
Kalutara
4. matale Pallekele open Prison camp assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Pallekele open Prison camp, 
Pallekele,  
Kundasale

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2720
No. District Prison Institute Addresses of Prison Institutes
5. Kandy bogambara Prison Superintendent of Prisons, 
bogambara Prison, 
dumbara,
Pallekele,  
Kundasale
6. Nuwaraeliya correctional center for young offenders - 
thaldena
assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
correctional center for young offenders - 
thaldena
7. Galle Galle Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Galle Prison, 
Galle
8 matara matara Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
matara Prison,
matara
9. hambantota tangalle Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
tangalle Prison,
tangalle
10. Jaffna Jaffna Remand Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Jaffna Prison,
Jaffna
11. mullathive Vavuniya Remand Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Vavuniya Remand Prison,
Vavuniya
12. Killinochchi Vavuniya Remand Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Vavuniya Remand Prison, 
Vavuniya
13. Vavuniya Vavuniya Remand Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Vavuniya Remand Prison, 
Vavuniya
14. trincomalee trincomalee Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
trincomalee Remand Prison,
trincomalee
15. batticaloa batticaloa Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
trincomalee Remand Prison,
trincomalee
16. ampara monaragala Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
monaragala Prison, 
monaragala
17. Puttlam Negombo Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Negombo Prison, 
Negombo
18. Kurunegala Wariyapola Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Wariyapola Prison, 
Wariyapola
19. anuradhapura anuradhapura Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
anuradhapura Prison, 
anuradhapura

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2721
No. District Prison Institute Addresses of Prison Institutes
20. Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Polonnaruwa Prison, 
Polonnaruwa.
21. badulla badulla Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
badulla Prison, 
badulla.
22. monaragala monaragala Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
monaragala Prison, 
monaragala.
23. Kegalle Kegalle Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Kegalle Prison, 
Kegalle.
24. Rathnapura Kuruwita Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Kuruwita Prison, 
Kuruwita.
25 mannar Vavuniya Remand Prison assistant Superintendent of Prisons, 
Vavuniya Remand Prison, 
Vavuniya.
(For office use only)
SPEcimEN  foRm  of  aPPLicatioN
recruitment to the Post of Prison guard at the dePartment of Prisons - sri lanKa - 2017
(on oPen Basis)
01.   (a) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
    (in English block letters) ex. : GuNaWaRdaNa, m. G. b. S. K. 
   (b) Name in full  :–––––––––––.
    (in English block letters)
   (c) Name in full  :–––––––––––.
    (in Sinhala/tamil)
02.   (a) Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil)  :–––––––––––.
   (b) Permanent address (in English block letters)  :–––––––––––.
   (c) Police Station with respect to permanent address  :–––––––––––.
03. Sex :
  female - 1 male - 0   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. National identity card No. : 
05. Whether married or single :
    Single  - 1
    married  - 2  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
06. date of birth : 
 y ear    month  date
07. age as at the closing date of application (18.12.2017) :
 y ears   months days

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2722
08. citizenship (by descent/registration) :––––––––––.
09. telephone No. : 
10. Physical measurement : 
 height : ...................... feet ..................... inches
 chest : ................inches
 (female applicants shall include height only)
11. Educational Qualifications :
 G. c. E. (ordinary Level) - 1st attempt  G. c. E. (ordinary Level) 2nd attempt
   (i) y ear of the Examination :––––––––––.  (i) year of Examination :––––––––––.
   (ii) index No. :––––––––––.  (ii) index No. :––––––––––.
   (iii) Results of the Examination :  (iii) Results of the Examination :
    
Subject Grade Subject Grade
12. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
13. have you ever been convicted by a court of any offence (if so, give particulars) :––––––––––.
14. Certificate of the Applicant :
 (i) i declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge. also, i declare that i bear the 
loss will cause due to incomplete filling of certain parts, and/or incorrectly filling the application. Further, I state 
that I have filled all parts completely and correctly. 
 (ii) i am also aware if i have provided any false information my candidature will be cancelled before or after the 
examination and if so found after selection. i am liable to be dismissed from the service. 
 (iii) I declare that before filling this application, I clearly read and realized all facts in the notification, and agreed to 
all terms and conditions. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
15. attestation of the applicant's Signature : 
i, hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ............................ is personally known to me and he/she has placed his/her 
signature in my presence on ...........................
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester. 
full Name of the attester :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(Official seal should be placed)

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2723
16. Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institution : 
i declare that the applicant mr./mrs./miss ..................................... is an employee of this department/institution. 
His/Her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she is qualified to apply for this post as per the Gazette notification 
and that he/she can be released/cannot be released from service if selected for the post. (cut off unnecessary words).
       ––––––––––––––––,
       Signature of the head of department/institution. 
Name :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(Official seal should be placed)
11–1158
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
fIRST EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION 
fOR GRADE III DOCumENTATION 
ASSISTANTS AND EDITORS IN ThE LEGAL 
DraFTSMan’S	DEParTMEnT	-	2018
01. it is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar 
examination for Editors and documentation assistants will 
be held by the  department of Examinations,  Sri Lanka 
on february 2018 in accordance with the provisions of 
the relevant approved scheme of recruitment for Editors 
and documentation assistants of the Legal draftsman’s 
department.
02.  (i) this examination will be held by the 
commissioner General of Examinations of the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,  and the 
candidates are subject to rules stipulated by him 
with regard to the holding of the examination 
and the release of results. the decision of the 
commissioner General of Examinations with 
regard to the holding of the examination and the 
release of results shall be final.
 (ii) the rules stipulated for candidates have been 
printed  separately in the Gazette notification. if 
these rules are violated by any candidate, he/she  
shall  be liable to a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
03. examination fees.- the candidates can sit for the 
subjects prescribed for the examination in one occasion 
or separately. No fees will be charged from candidates 
sitting for the examination for the first time,  either for  the 
entire  examination or for any single subject only.   Where 
the candidate sits for this examination on any subsequent 
occasion, an examination fee of Rs.250/- will be charged 
for a single subject and Rs.500/- will be charged for the 
entire examination. the examination fees may be paid to 
any postoffice or sub postoffice in the Island, to the credit of 
Revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examinations and the receipt issued shall  be affixed at the 
appropriate place in the application form.   (it may be useful 
to have a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate) money-
orders or stamps will not be accepted as examination fees 
and the fees paid will  neither be refunded  nor be transferred 
for any other examination under any circumstances.
04. Applications.– the application shall be prepared in 
accordance with the specimen application form annexed 
hereto.  the application shall be prepared  using both sides 
of an a 4 size paper and the headings 01 to 05 shall be on 
the first page and the balance portion  shall be  taken to be 
the second page.  in the  applications prepared in the Sinhala 
language,  the name of the examination should appear in the 
caption of the application in English  in addition to Sinhala.   
Likewise,  in the applications prepared in the tamil language, 
the name of the examination should appear  in the caption 
of the application in English too. the application form may 
be typed but it should be filled correctly and legibly in the 
handwriting of the applicant.  the application prepared by the 

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2724
applicant  shall be sent through the head of the department, 
by  registered post to the “commissioner General of 
Examinations, organizations and foreign Examinations 
branch, department of Examinations, P.o box 1503, 
colombo, to be  reached on or before	 18.12.2017. When 
the application is sent, the name of the examination should 
be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope.   
incomplete applications and applications received after the 
closing date will not be accepted. the applicant shall ensure 
that the completed application is in conformity with the 
specimen application form and the applications which are 
not in conformity with the  specimen application form  will 
be rejected.  (it will be useful for the applicant to keep a 
Photostat copy of the application with him.)
05. Identity of the applicant.– Every applicant shall 
prove his identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the 
examination hall in respect of  every subject he/she appears 
at such  examination hall.  for such purpose any one of the 
following documents will be accepted:-
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner-
General, department of Registration of Persons; 
or
 (ii) a valid passport.
With regard to the candidature of the applicants who 
are unable to submit one of the aforesaid documents, the 
decision of the commissioner-General of Examinations will 
be  final.
06. the commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards together with  copies of the time table 
to the applicants who have referred their  applications to him  
as aforementioned, on the presumption that only those who 
have qualifications specified in the Gazette notification have 
made applications.  Soon after the admission cards are issued 
to the applicants,  the  department of Examinations,   Sri 
Lanka will publish a notification in the newspapers to that 
effect.  if there are applicants who did not receive admission 
cards after  2 or 3 days of  the publication of the said 
notification, such candidates shall inform the Department 
of Examinations through the telephone   numbers given in 
the notification. When doing so the applicant shall mention 
his/her  full name, address,  National identity card number 
and the name of the examination and  when making such 
inquiry the applicant shall be ready with a copy of the 
application which the applicant retained with him, the  
copy of the  receipt  received when  making the payment  
of  fees and a copy of  the registered article receipt. if the 
applicant is from outside colombo, it will be useful to make 
inquiries through a request letter referred to the department 
of Examinations via fax, stating the candidates fax number 
and other information given above, enabling him to receive 
a copy of the admission card through fax.
07. the signature of the applicant in the application and 
in the admission card for the examination should be attested 
by the Head of the Department or any officer authorized by 
him.  an applicant should sit for the examination in the hall 
prescribed for him/her under the index number given to him/
her on the date of the examination. the admission card in 
which his/her signature is attested should be handed over to 
the supervisor of the examination. an applicant who fails to 
submit the admission card will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination.
08. the post held by the applicant and place of work at 
the time of making the application is relevant to all matters 
relating to the examination and any changes in respect 
thereof after sending the application will not be taken into 
consideration.
09. the head of the department must approve duty leave 
for applicants who have received admission cards issued by 
the commissioner-General of Examinations enabling them 
to sit  for  the examination.   No travelling expenses will be 
paid.
10. this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English media only.  if the  applicant  has joined public 
service through competitive examination  he/she should sit  
for the examination in the medium in which he/she sat for 
the said competitive examination and any applicant who 
has joined public service without sitting for a competitive 
examination shall sit for this examination in the medium in 
which he/she sat for the examination through which he/she 
got qualified to  enter the public service.   The applicant 
shall sit for all subjects of the examination in one medium. 
an applicant will not be permitted to change the medium 
mentioned in his application later.
11. this examination will be held only in colombo.
12. Examination Procedure:
the Examination relevant to the above posts  is comprised 
of the following subjects.
  Question paper Time Total 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
(1) Establishment and 
Procedure code
01 hour 100 40
(2) basic knowledge in 
financial Regulations
01 hour 100 40

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2725
Syllabus :
Name of examination Syllabus
01. Establishment and 
Procedure code
1. chapters vii, viii, xii,  xiv, 
xxiv of volume 1of  the 
Establishment code.
2. Procedural rules of the Public 
Service commission.
2. basic knowledge 
in financial 
Regulations.
chapters iv, v, vi, ix of 
financial Regulations.
Note :
 * an applicant can sit for the above subjects 
separately.
 *  the failure to pass the above examination 
within  the prescribed period  will result in 
deferment of the increment.
13. the issue of an admission card to an applicant shall 
not be considered as he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
be eligible to sit for the examination.
14. the decision of the Legal draftsman in respect of  
any matter not specified in this Gazette notification shall be 
final.
15. if there is any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil 
and English  versions of this notification, Sinhala notification 
shall  prevail.
Legal draftsman,
Legal draftsman’s department.
colombo 12.
Specimen Application form 
thE  fiRSt EfficiENcy  baR ExamiNatioN foR 
GRadE iii EditoR/documENtatioN aSSiStaNtS 
of thE  LEGaL dRaftSmaN'S dEPaRtmENt
                                                     for office use only
the medium in which the candidate intends to
 sits for the examination:   
 Sinhala   - 2
      t amil     - 3
 English  - 4
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1   Name in full  (in English  capital letters) :––––––.  
   Example : (hERath mudiyaNSELaGE 
SamaN KumaRa  GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 1.2   Name giving the last name first and the first  letters  
of the  other names thereafter (in English  capitals 
letters) :––––––––––––.  
   (Example : GuNaWaRdaNa  h.m.S.K)
  1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.                   
    (in Sinhala/tamil)
02.  2.1  Name and address of Office/Department /
institution :––––––––––––.  
    (in English capital letters) :––––––––––––.  
   (Admission Card will be posted to this address)
  2.2 Name and address of Office/Department /
institution :––––––––––––.  
   (in Sinhala /tamil) :––––––––––––.  
  2.3 Private address :––––––––––––.   
 (in Sinhala/tamil)
 2.4  telephone No. :   
  
 
03. National identity card No. :
04. male/female :  
  4.1   male    - 0
     female - 1
   (insert the relevant number in the cage)
05. Subject/Subjects which  you sit  for the examination  
this year :
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
06. date of birth :
 y ear:       month : date: 
 
07. Present Post :
  7.1 Post :––––––––––.
  7.2 Number of the appointment letter :––––––––––.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2726
08.  8.1 do you  sit for  this examination for the first time 
:––––––––––.
  8.2 If this is  not the first time that you sit for this 
examination, the amount of examination fees paid 
:––––––––––.
  8.3 Receipt Number :––––––––––.
  8.4 date :––––––––––.
Affix the  receipt here (only if  relevant).  
(it may be useful to  have a photocopy of the  
receipt with you)
i state that the details given above are correct and that i 
am entitled to sit this examination in the medium indicated 
by me in this application  and i have paid the examination 
fee of Rs…………….and the  receipt is annexed hereto.  
further  i  state that i agree  to the rules imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
holding of the examination, and issuing of the results.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
the applicant  should place his signature before the head 
of the  Department or any officer authorized  to sign on 
behalf  of the head of the  department.
Attestation of the Signature :
i do hereby state  that mr./mrs./miss…………… ..…is 
an officer of my Department  who is known to me personally 
and  he/she  placed his/her signature  before me  and  has 
affixed the   receipt obtained on payment of   the prescribed 
examination fee.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attesting officer.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
(Confirm  by placing official seal)
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that
1.  i perused the details given in this application; and
2. that the officer concerned is eligible to sit for this 
examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature  of head of the department.
           Official Seal.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
11–990
––––––––––––––––
LanD	COMMISSIOnEr	GEnEraL'S	
DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for recruitment 
of	Colonization	Officers	Grade	III	of	Sri	Lanka	
Technological Service of Land Commissioner 
General's	Department	–	2016(2017)
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from the Sri Lankan 
citizens who are qualified in herein after mentioned No. 
02 to fill the vacancies in the post of Colonization Officers 
Grade iii of Sri Lanka technological Service in Land 
commissioner General's department. the open competitive 
examination for this recruitment will be held on march 2018 
in colombo.
01. Method of recruitment .– Vacancies not less than 
70% of the existing vacancies in the post of colonization 
Officers-Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service 
will be filled, by the Land Commissioner General upon 
the powers vested by Public Service commission, on the 
results of a written examination and an interview followed 
by the applicants who are qualified in herein after mentioned           
No. 02.
02. Qualifications:
 i. Educational Qualifications:
  Should have passed three (03) subjects from 
the subjects, chemistry, Physics, biology, 
agriculture and agro technology in the same 
sitting at the General Certificate of Education 
(advanced Level) Examination and 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2727
  Should have passed six (06) subjects in the same sitting with credit passes for subjects including Sinhala/tamil 
Language, English Language, Science, Mathematics and another subject at the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary Level) Examination.
 ii. Professional Qualifications:
  Should have obtained a two year agriculture diploma offered by an institute recognized by tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission.
03. Salary Scale and Code :
monthly consolidated salary scale of this post: Rs. 31,040 – 10x445 – 11x660 – 10x730 – 10x750 – Rs. 57,550.
Salary code: mN-3-2016 (as per the Schedule 01)
04. Age Limit :
the applicant shall be not less than 18 years of age and not more than 30 years of age as at the closing date of the 
application. (Accordingly, the age requirement will be fulfilled only if the date of birth of the applicant falls on or 
before 08.12.1999 or on or after 08.12.1987).
05. Physical Competency and other Service Conditions :
(a) Shall be of excellent moral character and in good health.
(b) Shall serve and perform the duties attached to the post in any part of the island.
(c) Shall obtain the language proficiency in terms of the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service.
(d) this post is permanent and pensionable and subject to a three (03) year probation period.
06. examination Procedure :
(a) this examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English languages.
(b) a  candidate shall sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying examination or in an 
official language.
Note:
 i. the above term "qualifying examination" refers to one of the examinations referred to in paragraph 02.
 ii. a  candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
 iii. a  candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the 
application.
07. Syllabus for the Written examination :
Name of the 
Question Paper
Syllabus
1. intelligence test this question paper will be comprised of subjective questions to test the logical reasoning, 
analytical power and ability for decision making of the applicants.
there will be 50 multiple choice and questions to give short answers and all questions should be 
answered.
duration: 01 hour
2.technical Paper this question will be comprised of structured essay type questions on Land tenure system of Sri 
Lanka and its evolution, Land reform schemes in Sri Lanka,
agricultural economy of Sri Lanka and settlement planning and management.
candidates are expected to possess the basic knowledge regarding the following.
all questions should be answered. duration: 03 hours.
i. Land tenure system of Sri Lanka and its evolution
- history of Land tenure system of Sri Lanka
- Confirmation of land ownership through registration of documents
- Registration of land title in Sri Lanka

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2728
Name of the 
Question Paper
Syllabus
1. technical Paper ii. Land reform schemes in Sri Lanka
- Waste Lands ordinance introduced by the british and the social changes occurred with that
- initiating Land development ordinance in 1935 and issuance of land ownership to peasants
- the Land Reform act and the commission introduced in 1972 and the land reforms made 
accordingly 
iii. Agricultural economy of Sri Lanka
- agricultural policies in Sri Lanka
- main food crop production and food safety in Sri Lanka
- Land development and conservation through land development
- contribution of agriculture to the national production of Sri Lanka 
- Crop diversification
- Water management
- Soil conservation 
iv. Settlement planning and management
- basic elements of settlement planning and management
- Social economic surveys
- Resettlement 
- community development 
- development of basic infrastructure
08. The Inteview.– a number of applicants equal to the expected number to recruit shall be called for the interview 
on the order of merit of total from the applicants who have secured more than 40% at the written examination. 
No marks shall be given at the interview and only the certificates and the physical qualifications of the applicants 
shall be examined.
09. Conditions of the examination :
 i. exam Fee:
  The examination fee, which is Rs. 600/- could be paid at any post/sub post office in the island to the credit 
of Revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations before the closing date of the 
application. The original receipt obtained in the candidate's own name should be firmly pasted to the place 
specified in the application form. No fee will be charged except to the examination fee. The examination 
fees shall not be refunded for any reason. it would be advisable to retain a photocopy of this receipt.
 II. Applications should be prepared to appear Headings 1-6.3 of the application on the first page and the rest 
on the other pages. applications should be completed in the medium requested for the examination by the 
candidate in his/her own handwriting. the title of the examination indicated in the application should be 
in English language as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application forms. Since the applications which are 
incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form shall be rejected without any notice, 
applicants should recheck whether the perfected application form complies with the specimen given in 
this notice and the application is perfected including all the particulars and the examination fee has been 
paid on due time and the particulars of the same have been included in the application and the receipt is 
attached. further, it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the perfected application.
 iii. Submission of the Application :
(a) applications duly perfected as per the specimen attached to this notice should be sent by registered 
post to reach the address of 'commissioner General of Examination, organization and overseas 
Examination branch, department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, P. o. box. 1503, colombo' on or before 
08.12.2017. the late submissions will be rejected.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2729
(b) the words, "open Recruitment for the post of 
Colonization Officer" should be written on the 
top-left hand corner of envelop in which the 
application is enclosed.
(c) application should be completed in the language 
of which the candidate is qualified to sit the 
examination.
(d) applicants should get their signature attested 
in both application and admission card for the 
examination. an applicant who is already in the 
Public or Provincial Public Service should get 
her/his signature attested by her/his head of the 
Department or a delegated officer by the said Head 
of the department where he serves, and other 
applicants from a justice of Peace, commissioner 
for oath, attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, 
head of a Government or a director controlled 
School, Officer in Public Service whose annual 
consolidated salary is more than Rs. 240,360/- or 
a chief incumbent of a buddhist temple or chief 
Prelate or other clergy holding considerable 
position as the chief Priest of a religious place, 
Commissioned Officer in three Armed Forces, 
Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police 
Service.
10. Admission to the examination :
(a) on the presumption that only those who 
possess qualifications indicated in the Gazette 
Notification have forwarded their applications, 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue the admissions to the applicants 
who have completed the age requirement and 
have paid prescribed examination fees and 
forwarded their duly perfected applications 
on or before the due date. a notice will be 
published in the newspapers as soon as 
admission cards are issued to applicants. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 
days of such an advertisement, step should be 
taken to notify the organization and overseas 
Examination branch of the department of 
Examination in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. When informing, the name of 
the examination applied for, full name, address 
and Nic number of the candidate should be 
indicated, it would be advisable for candidates 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request 
along with a fax number of the candidate to 
the department of Examinations through the 
fax number mentioned in the notification. 
further, it would be advisable to keep a copy 
of the application, copy of the receipt relevant 
to payment of examination fee and the receipt 
of registration of the application to prove any 
information requested. candidates should 
submit the admissions with attested signature 
to the supervisor of examination hall on the 
first day he/she presents him/herself for the 
examination and any candidate who fails to 
produce his/her admission card will not be 
permitted to sit the examination.
(b) attention is drawn to the set of rules published 
in the paragraph (ii a) of Part i in the General 
Gazette to be observed by all candidates.
(c) the examination will be held in Sinhala/
tamil/English medium. candidates shall not 
be permitted to change the language medium 
applied initially.
(d) a  candidate shall be required to prove his/
her identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor and only 
following documents shall be accepted for this 
purpose;
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons
 (ii) a  valid passport
(e) Results of the Examination :
 As per the Paragraph 8 of this notification, 
the result sheet prepared including the names 
of candidates who have obtained marks not 
less than 40% for each subject of witten 
examination shall be submitted to the Land 
commissioner General. department of 
Examinations shall communicate the results to 
all the candidates who sit for the examination 
personally by post or by the web site www.
results.exams.gov.lk of the department.
(f) the issuing of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he/she has the 
required qualifications to sit the examination 
or to appoint to the post.
(g) candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations for the purpose 
of conducting the examination and issuing 
results. if the said rules and regulations 
are violated, the commissioner General of 
Examinations shall take measures to annual 
his/her candidature.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2730
11. Procedural rules of Public Service commission, circulars issued from time to time in relation to public service and 
the conditions of the Service minute of Sri Lanka technological Service and the revisions made thereto are relevant 
to this post.
12. correct information should be provided carefully when completing the application. if it is revealed that a candidate 
does not possess any of the required qualifications as per the rules and regulations of this examination, the 
candidature can be annulled at any stage before, during or after the examination.
13. any matter not provided for in these regulations shall be dealt with as determined by the Public Service commission.
14. in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English text of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
  R. m. c. m. herath, 
 Land commissioner General.
Land commissioner General's department
1200/6, mihikatha medura,
Rajamalwatta Road,
battaramulla.
 (For office use only)
SPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN
oPen comPetitive examination for recruitment of colonization officers grade iii of sri lanKa technological 
service of land commissioner general's dePartment 2016 (2017)
Language medium of the examination as per the  Sinhala -  2
Para 06 of the Gazette Notification. (The Tamil -  3
medium shall not be allowed to change later.) English - 4
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01.  Name:
  1.1 Name, with initials at the end (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   ex. : GuNaWaRdhaNa, m. G. b. S. K.
  1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals)  :––––––––––––.
  1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02.  Personal adress (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  2.1 Personal address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.  
   (admission will be sent to this address)
03.  Gender:
  female - 1
  male   - 0
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04.  National identity card No. :  
05.  Ethnicity:
  (Sinhala-1, tamil-2, indian tamil-3, muslim-4, other-5) 
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2731
06.  6.1 marital status: (married -2, unmarried -1)
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  6.2 date of birth:
    y ear : month : date:
  6.3 age as at 08.12.2017
   y ears : months :  date :
07.  Mention your qualifications to sit for the examination as per i and ii of No. 02 of Gazette Notification.
  I. Educational qualifications
   G. c. E. o/L examination index No. :–––––––––––––.  year :–––––––––––––.  
  Subject Result Subject Result
  ……………………… ………. ……………… …………
  ……………………… ………. ……………… …………
  ……………………… ………. ……………… …………
  ……………………… ………. ……………… …………
  ……………………… ………. ……………… …………
   G. c. E. a/L examination index No. :–––––––––––––.  year :–––––––––––––.  
  Subject Result Subject Result
  ……………………… ………. ……………… …………
  ……………………… ………. ……………… …………
  II. Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
08.  Please paste the receipt of payment of examination fee so as not to be detached.
  (i) No: …………………………… (ii)  Place : ………………………………………
  (iii)  date: ………………………  (iv) amount paid (Rs): …………………………
   (it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidates for future reference)
09.  declaration of the candidate:-
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed 
the receipt No ………………………….. dated …………… being the payment of the examination fee. i also agree to be 
bound by the rules imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations and any decision that may be taken to cancel 
my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that i am ineligible according to the regulations of 
this examination.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2732
10.  attestation of the applicant's signature:
i hereby certify that …………………………………. who submits this application is known to me personally, that 
he/she paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature in my 
presence.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
Address (To be certified by placing the Official Stamp) :––––––––––––.
11.  Certificate of the Head of Department (only for the applicants in Public Service) :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss. …………………………… who is submitting this application is serving in this 
Ministry/Department as a permanent/temporary officer and placed his/her signature in my presence.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of head of department.
date :––––––––––––.
11-919
––––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of mEASuREmENT uNITS, STANDARDS AND SERvICES
 
ñkqï tAll m%ñ;s yd fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=fõ Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha ñkqï fiajd yd Wml%u mÍlaIl 
;k;=r$ridhkd.dr iyldr ;k;=r i|yd mqyqKq fY%a‚hg n|jd .ekSfï iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2017               
                                                                                                
Limited Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the Posts of Inspectors of measurement 
Services Devices / Lab Assistant of the Sri Lanka technical Service in the Department of measurement 
units, Standards and Services - 2017 
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called to recruit for the posts of inspectors of measurement Services devices / Lab assistant 
of the Grade iii of Sri Lanka technical Service. the examination will be held only in colombo and the applications duly 
prepared in accordance with the specimen application produced at the end of this Gazette notification should be sent to 
“commissioner General of Examinations, organizations and foreign Examinations branch", department of Examinations 
Sri Lanka, 1503, colombo under registered cover to reach on or before 18.12.2017. the words “Limited Competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment to the Posts of Inspector of measurement Services Devices / Lab Assistant -2017 ” 
at the top left corner of the envelope. 
01. Conditions of Recruitment and Services  :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable, should contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and orphans' 
Pensions Scheme. 
 (ii) the appointment will be subject to a training period of two years. 
 (iii) In keeping with Official Language Policies and Public Administration Circular 07/2007 applicants should 
obtain proficiency in official languages within the prescribed period. 

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2733
 (iv) i st Efficiency bar Examination should be passed within first three years of appointment to III rd class,  iind  
Efficiency bar Examination should be passed within first three years of appointment to II nd class and iiird  
Efficiency Bar examinations should be passed within first five  years of the appointment to  Ist  class.  
02. Salaries and allowances.– Officers qualified as Internal applicants should further remain  in the same salary 
scale they earlier received, at the trainee Grade and they are paid  an annual allowance equivalent to the initial  increment 
of the recruiting  grade of SriLanka technical Service until they pass the Skills test conducted by the  department at the end 
of the training programme. An officer serves in the Training Grade to the satisfactory level will be paid the next increment 
of the salary scale he has been paid in the second year and allowance is further paid. at the successful completion of the 
examination salary conversion will be made in terms of the provisions set out in the Establishments code that amended by 
the Public administrative circular No. 03/2016    
monthly Salary Scale :– 
inspectors of measurement Services devices / Lab assistant
    training  Grade
1st. year  -  a monthly  allowance of Rs. 15,924/-
2nd. year  - a  monthly allowance of Rs. 16,100/-
monthly  Salary Scale relevant to the Post:
Post of inspector of measurement Services devices/Laboratory assistant
  mN 3 – 2016
 Rs.31,040 -10x445-11x660-10x730-10x750- Rs. 57,550 and it is entitled with effect from  01.01.2020. in terms 
of provisions on the sub schedule ii of this circular,salaries are paid with effect from the date on which the 
appointment is effective in terms of the sub schedule ii if this circular .
03.	Educational	Qualifications	:
 I  Inspector of measurement Services Devices
  Should have passed G.c.E (o/L) Examination at not more than two sittings with 06 subjects including 
credit passes for Language, mathematics and Science subjects.  
  Professional Qualifications – Not  Relevant
04. Experience :
 i.  Inspector of measurement Services Devices
  t en years of experience in the post of measurement technician  or a ten years of experience in the post of 
measurement Standard Services assistant . 
 ii.  Lab Assistant 
  t en years of experience in the post of measurement technician  or a ten years of experience in the post of 
measurement Standard Services assistant  or ten years of experience in the post of Lab assistant 
05.	Other	Qualifications	:
 (i)  Should have completed a consecutive satisfactory   service of during the 05 years immediately preceding 
the due date. 
 (ii)  Should have confirmed in the post. 
 (iii)  Should bear an excellent moral character and should be physically fit. 
 (iv)  Applicants should possess all the qualifications in every respect required for this post as at the date of 
closing of applications. 
06. method of recruitment.– The candidates  who posses the above qualifications should pass the Limited 
competitive Examination conducted by department of Examinations Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2734
  candidates selected for training grade should pass the Skills test conducted by the department at the end 
of the theoretical and   practical training. those who pass the Skills test shall be recruited in Grade iii of 
Sri Lanka technical Service. 
  Inspector of measurement Services Devices :
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass  Marks Duration
intelligence test 100 40% 01 hour
technical and theoretical test 100 40% 01 hour
  Lab Assistant of measurement Services Devices :
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks Duration 
intelligence test 100 40% 01 hour 
technical and theoretical test 100 40% 01 hour
  Written Examination for the post of Lab Assistant.– 40% or above of marks should be obtained for each 
subject to pass the examination. a number of applicant’s equivalent to two times the number of persons to 
be recruited will be called for the interview based on the merit order of the aggregate marks they secured. 
Any means will not be given at the interview. Applicants who possess qualifications in every aspect and 
have secured maximum aggregate marks will be enrolled for training Grade. the result sheet will be 
sent to all the applicants to their private address or published in the web site www.results.exams.gov.lk 
by the commissioner General of examinations after their results are submitted to the measurment unit, 
standards and Services department .the decision of the commissioner General of Examinations regarding 
the conduct of examination and issue of results is the final.
 07.  Written Examination :
 • Medium of examination will be in Sinhala/Tamil/English. It is not allowed to change the medium after 
applying and candidate should answer all papers at the examination in the same medium they applied. 
 • The examination consists of two papers. Intelligence Test is common for both posts and candidates should 
sit for a technical paper relevant for each post. 
 01. The Post of Inspector of measurement Services Devices
 i. intelligence test - one hour. total marks  100 
 • This paper consists of  questions to examine candidate’s logical reasoning, thinking ability, 
analytical thinking and ability to take decisions 
 ii. t echnical and theoretical test – one hour. total marks 100
 • Basic knowledge in Weighing scales, Measurements and Measurement equipment                                        
[(a) principles, (b) functioning, (c) practical usage, (d) and related regulations of the department. 
 • Basic knowledge in measurement units, [(a) International Standard Units, (SI Units),                   
(b) derivative, (c) units used for measuring various sets.]
 
 02. The post of Lab Assistant :
 i. intelligence test - one hour. total marks  100
 • This paper consists of  questions to examine candidate’s logical reasoning, thinking ability, 
analytical thinking and ability to take decisions 
 i i. t echnical and theoretical test – one hour . total marks 100.
 • Knowledge in the equipment used at National Measurement Laboratory, [(a) principles,            
(b) functioning, (c) practical usage, (d)  method of usage and maintenance of equipment.]

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2735
 • Basic knowledge in measurement units,[ (a) International Standard Units, (SI Units), (b) 
derivative units , (c).units used for measuring various sets.]
 • Knowledge in environmental condition to be maintained in the laboratory,[ (a) temperature, 
(b) relative humidity, (c) quality of atmosphere ]
	 08.  Applications and  method of Application :
  The application should be prepared as item No. 01 to 09 in the first page, item No. 10 to 12 in second 
page and the rest is in third page and it should be clearly filled in candidate’s own hand writing. Please 
note that applications which are inconsistent with the specimen or incomplete are liable to be rejected 
without notice. it is prudent to keep a photocopy of the application with applicant. further heading in 
Sinhala medium applications should be in English as well   in addition to Sinhala, and in tamil medium 
applications in English as well   in addition to tamil and the applications should be forwarded through the 
head of the department/ institute. 
 09.  as soon as admission cards are issued to candidates, a notice will be published in the newspapers by the 
department of Examinations Sri Lanka. if the admission card is not received even after 2 to 3 days from the 
publication of the notice, it should be brought to the notice of the department of Examinations SriLanka 
in the manner stated in the notice. department of Examinations should be inquired enclosing a copy of the 
application, a copy of the receipt of payment of examination fees and the receipt of registration of the letter 
bearing the name of the examination, full name of the candidate, number of the National identity card 
and the address and if the candidate resides out of colombo it is advisable to send a fax to department of 
Examinations SriLanka with a fax  number to send the admission along with the above particulars.  
 10.  the examination fee is Rs. 1,000 to apply for one post and Rs.1,300.00 when applying for the both posts. 
the examination fee can be paid at any divisional Secretariat or district Secretariat to the credit of Revenue 
head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations. the receipt obtained for this payment 
should be firmly pasted with one edge to the place specified in the application form. The examination fee 
is not refundable under any circumstances. it is advisable if a photocopy of the receipt is retained with the 
candidate. 
 11.  National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons or a valid passport is only 
recognized for the confirmation of the candidates’ identity to the supervisor at the examinations conducted 
by the department of Examinations Sri Lanka. issue of a passport to a candidate does not necessarily mean 
that he/she has satisfied the qualifications to appear for the   Examination. Candidates would be subject to 
the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations in respect of the conduct 
of the examinations. if these rules and regulations are violated, candidates are bound to undergo any 
punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations.
 12.  the decision on any matter not covered in this notice rests with the Public Service commission and this 
notice subject to the Service minute of technical Service and the provisions in the Scheme of Recruitment. 
The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations shall be final with regard to conduct of the 
examination and issue of results. 
  S. N. 
aKuranthilaKe,
  director of measurement units, Standards and Services (d.a.)
mahenawatta,
Pitipana,
homagama.
27th october, 2017.

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2736
sPecimen aPPlication form
         
   For Office Use Only      
ñkqï tAll m%ñ;s yd fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=fõ Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha ñkqï fiajd yd Wml%u mÍlaIl 
;k;=r$ridhkd.dr iyldr ;k;=r i|yd mqyqKq fY%a‚hg n|jd .ekSfï iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2017                                            
Limited competitive examination For the recruitment to the poStS oF inSpector oF meaSurement ServiceS deviceS / 
Lab aSSiStant oF the Sri Lanka technicaL Service oF department oF meaSurement unitS, StandardS and ServiceS- 2017
medium : 
Sinhala  -  2
tamil  -  3  
English  -  4
                                (Write the number  in the relevant cage)
 
Post applying for :
Put No.01 for the post of inspectors of measurement Services devices, No.02 for the post of Lab assistant and No.03 for 
the both posts..
 1. Name with initials, with initials at the end (in English block letters) :––––––––––––. 
eg. – Nimal   a.b. 
 2 . full Name (in English block letters)  :––––––––––––.
 3.  full Name (in tamil/ Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
 4. Permanent address in English block letters (applications will be posted to this address) :––––––––––––.
 5. Gender (male - 0, female - 1) 
 (Write the number  in the relevant cage)
 6. National identity card No.:
 7. civil Status (married -1, Single -2)  
 (Write the number  in the relevant cage)
 8. Race  (Sinhalese - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3,muslim- 4, other- 5) 
(Write the number  in the relevant cage)
 9.  (a) date of birth :
       year                                       month                       date
  (b) date of birth as at the closing date of application :
                        years                        months                      days
 10.  State whether you are a Sri Lankan by descended or registration. ( if by registration furnish details) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2737
 11. Educational/ Professional Qualifications :
       11.1  details of G.c.E. o/L Examination :
         y ear of passing the examination :––––––––––––.
       index Number :––––––––––––.
   
Subject Grade obtained
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
          11.2  Other Educational/Professional Qualifications : 
examination                                  Institution                 Date
 12. Present post and the earlier post; if any :
Post                             from                     To                 Annual Salary 
 13.  Whether department disciplinary action had been taken /is being taken against you?  :–––––––––––.
 14.  have you been convicted by a court of Law for any offence?  :–––––––––––.
 15. other relevant matters  :–––––––––––.
 16. date of the payment of   :-  district Secretariat  / divisional Secretariat  
Examination fees  :–––––––––––. 
Number of the receipt :–––––––––––. 
 
Paste the receipt properly here
 17.  certificate of the candidate :
  i do hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true to the best of my knowledge and belief and the 
receipt No. ……………………. dated………………………. paid the examination fees has been pasted herein. 

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2017
2738
further, i agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel 
my candidature prior to, during or after the examination if it is found that i ineligible according to the regulations of 
the examination. further i declare that i would be liable to the dismissal from service without any compensation if it 
would be detected that any particulars stated in this are inaccurate or false even after appointing me to this post and to 
the rules and regulations imposed by the director General of Examinations with regard to conduct of the examination 
and issue of results. 
   ––––––––––––––––––,
                                                                                            applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
18. Certificate of the Head of Department :-  
                i certify that the above particulars are accurate/ should be revised as follows, his/ her works and conduct are 
………………………………….. he/She could be released from the present post. 
 
(cut off inapplicable words)
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of department/ institution.
designation :–––––––––––.
(Official Frank.)
date :–––––––––––.
11–728                
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.