

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
397
397
wxl 1"697 - 2011 ud¾;= ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'03'11
No. 1,697 – FRIDAY , MARCH 11, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 400
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 410
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 18th March, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th
March, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,696 of 04.03.2011 was not published.
The list of Jurors in Colombo High Court - 2011 published in Gazette No. 1,695 of 25.02.2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
398
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
399
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
400
Posts – Vacant
CORRECTION
IT is hereby notified that “Muslim males only can apply for these
posts” which appeared under Number (2) of the English V ersion of
the notice for recruitment of Marriages, Births and Deaths Registrars
for Matara District, published on the Gazette No. 1,695 dated 25th
of February, 2011, should be corrected as “Both males and females
can apply for these posts”.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
03–392
CORRECTION
IT is hereby notified that “Muslim males only can apply for these
posts” which appeared under Number (2) of the English V ersion of
the notice for recruitment of Marriages, Births and Deaths Registrars
for Kandy District, published on the Gazette No. 1,695 dated 25th
of February, 2011, should be corrected as “Both males and females
can apply for these posts”.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
03–393
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
MONERAGALA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Apr il, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
15th February, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Moneragala Wellawaya Post of Additional Registrar of Muslim District Secretary/Additional
Marriages of Wellawaya Division Registrar General, District Secretariat
Moneragala.
03-405

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
401
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th Apr il, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
15th February, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Kekirawa Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional
Kekirawa Area in Kalagampalatha Registrar General, District Secretariat
Division Anuradhapura.
03-406
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
402
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th Apr il, 2011.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
14th February, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Puttalam Puttalam Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths for Puttalam Town Division Registrar General, District Secretariat
Puttalam.
03-407
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Filling the Vancancies of the Post of Principals in the National Schools
APPLICATIONS are hereby entertained from the suitable candidates to fill the following post of Principals in the National Schools.
Name of School Address
01. Bambalapitiya Muslim Girl's College - Colombo
02. Hindu College - Colombo
03. Prince of Wales College - Moratuwa
04. KL/Sripalee Vidyalaya - Horana
05. KL/Royal V idyalaya - Horana
06. C. W. W. Kannangara M. M. V . - Mathugama SLEAS Class I
07. St. Thomas Boys’ College - Matara Schools
08. Vavuniya Tamil M. M. V . - Vavuniya
09. H/Wijayaba M. M. V . - Hambantota
10. Rt/Embilipitiya President College - Embilipitiya
11. Rt/Sumana Balika Vidyalaya - Rathnapura
12. G/Elpitiya Ananda Vidyalaya - Elpitiya
13. Maliyadewa M. M. V . - Kurunegala
14. Royal M. M. V . - Polonnaruwa
15. KL/Bandaragama M. M. V . - Bandaragama
16. B/Vishaka Girls’ High School M. M. V . - Badulla
17. Mt./Godapitiya M. M. V . - Akurassa
18. Am/Samanthurai Muslim M. M. V . - Samanthurai SLEAS Class II
19. Tr/R. K. M. Koneshwaram Hindu College - Trincomalee Schools
20. Mo/Malwaththawala M. M. V . - W ellawaya
21. Alauwa Sri Rahula M. M. V. - Alauwa
22. Kg/Zahira Muslim M. M. V . - Mawanella
23. Sri Sumangala M. M. V . - Wariyapola
24. Urubokka M. M. V . - Matara

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
403
25. Wijaya V idyalaya - Matale
26. Wijayaba M. M. V . - Mahawa
27. Kataragama President Vidyalaya - Kataragama
28. Kamel Fathima National School - Kalmunai
29. Al-Azzar Vidyalaya - Akurana SLEAS Class II
30. Dharmadutha M. M. V . - Badulla Schools
31. Balapitiya Rewatha M. M. V . - Balapitiya
32. Therapuththa M. M. V . - Hambantota
33. Zahira M. M. V. - Akurana
34. Madeena M. M. V . - Madawala
35. Gm/Sri Pagngnananda National School - Raddolouwa
36. Zahira National School - Puttalam
37. Bt/Meera Balika M. Vidyalaya - Kaththankudi
38. Mt/Arfa M. M. V . - W eligama
39. M/Ameena National School - Matale
40. B/Vishaka Balika M. M. V . - Bandarawela
41. Mo/Wellassa National School - Bibila
42. Chilaw/Senanayake National School - Madampe
43. Kg/Rajasinghe M. M. V. - Ruwanwella
44. R/Gankanda M. M. V . - Pelmadulla
45. Nakkawatta National School - Nakkawatta SLEAS Class III
46. Mt./Deiyandara National School - Matara Schools
47. G/Manawila Upananda Vidyalaya - Galle
48. Theldeniya National School - Theldeniya
49. Shivananda National School - Batticaloa
50. Al-Humeisara National School - Beruwala
51. Kotapola National School - Kotapola
52. Madeena National School - Siyambalagaskotuwa
53. Paragahadeniya Muslim M. V . - Paragahadeniya
54. Agrabodhi National School - Trincomalee
55. Ka/Sri Sumangala M. M. V . - Nildandahinna
56. Ja/Holly Family Convent - Jaffna
57. Am/Ramacrishna Vidyalaya - Akkareipattu
58. Bt/An-Noor M. M. V . - V alachchenei
59. Ka/Zahira National School - Akurana
60. Ka/Alavathugoda M. M. V . - Alavathugoda
61. Ka/D. B. Wijethunga M. M. V . - Muruthagahamula
62. B/Koslanda M. M. V. - Koslanda
63. B/Kahagolla M. M. V . - Diyathalawa
64. B/Walhaputhanna M. M. V . - Haldummulla
65. B/D. S. Senanayake M. M. V . - Kandaketiya
66. B/Saraswathie Tamil College - Badulla
67. B/Meegahakiula National School - Badulla
68. B/Etampitiya National School - Badulla SLPS Grade I
69. B/Andaulpatha National School - Mahiyanganaya Schools
70. B/Guruthalawa Muslim M. M. V . - Guruthalawa
71. B/Lunuwatta National School - Lunuwatta
72. B/Wangiya Kumbura M. M. V . - Boralanda
73. B/Passara National School - Passara
74. Mo/Thanamalwila M. M. V . - Thanamalwila
75. Ku/Idulgodakanda Nissanka M. M. V . - Kurunegala
76. Ke/Dehiowita M. M. V . - Dehiowita
77. Ku/Sri Parakrama National School - Kobeigane
78. Bt/Aliyar Muslim Maha Vidyalaya - Eravur
79. Polpithigama M. M. V. - Polpithigama
80. Mt/Thihagoda National School - Thihagoda
81. H/Zahira National School - Hambantota
Name of School Address

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
404
82. Gam/Siyana National School - Dompe
83. D. S. Senanayake Vidyalaya - Beruwala
84. S. W. R. D. Bandaranayake - Kundasale
85. Ja/Manipay Hindu College - Jaffna
86. Mt/Keerthi Abeywickrama National School - Morawaka
87. Gamini National School - Nuwaraeliya
88. Gamini Dissanayake National School - Kotmale
89. Gatamanna Wijaya Vidyalaya - Beliaththa
90. Kandy/Almanar M. M. V . - Galhinna SLPS Grade I
91. Alminhaj National School - Hapugasthalawa Schools
92. Yatiyanthota M. M. V . - Yatiyanthota
93. Pindeniya National School - Pindeniya
94. Zahira M. M. V . - Anuradhapura
95. V/Vavuniya Muslim M. M. V . - Vavuniya
96. Kandy/Galagedara M. M. V . - Galagedara
97. St. Joseph National School - Trincomalee
98. Malharussulliya M. M. V . - Galle
02. In case of relevant Class/Grade officers are not applied for the above post, applications from the lower Class/Grade can be
considered.
03. Only the general cadre officers of the Class II and Class III of the Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service and Class I
officers of the service can apply for the principal vacancies in the National Schools relevant of SLEAS.
04. Applicants should forward their applications, prepared in a A4 size paper, in conformity with the specimen form as indicated
below. Duly perfected applications should be forwarded only under registered post addressed as follows to reach on or before 31.03.2011.
The words "Post of Principal in National School" should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
Application received late and those prepared deviating from the specimen form will be rejected. Application should be addressed  to the
"Secretary, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla".
05. Applicants can apply for maximum of 3 schools out of the National Schools indicated above, in the order of their preference.
Please do send number of certified copies of original application relevant to the number of schools applied for.
06. The applicants who received permanent principal post in the national schools within 3 years are ineligible to apply for these
posts.
07. The Secretary of Ministry of Education reserves the right of making a final decision relating to all selections.
H. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
APPLICATION FOR POST OF PRINCIPAL IN NA TIONAL SCHOOLS
01. Name of School in the order of preference :
1. ................................
2. ................................
3. ................................
02. Name with initials (To be written in English block capital letters) :––––––––––.
03. Name/Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
04. 4.1 Date of birth :
Date :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Year :––––––––––.
4.2 Age (as on the closing date of applications) :––––––––––.
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––.
4.3 Religion :––––––––––.
4.4 Sex :––––––––––.
Name of School Address

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
405
05. 5.1 Official address :––––––––––.
5.2 Official Tele. No. :––––––––––.
5.3 Permanent address :––––––––––.
5.4 Private Tele. No. (if available) :––––––––––.
(Address for correspondence to be indicated with * mark. Please write English capital letters).
06. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
07. 7.1 Service/Class and Grade you belong to –
S.L.E.A.S. Class/Grade :––––––––––.
S.L.P.S. Class/Grade :––––––––––.
7.2 Date of present appointment :––––––––––.
08. Nature of appointment to the present service (Open/Limited/Merit/Other) :––––––––––.
09. 9.1 Present post and number/date of appointment to this post :––––––––––.
9.2 Date of assumption of duties according to the appointment :––––––––––.
10. Educational qualifications (Degree/Post Graduate Degree qualifications) :
Degrees/Post Graduate Medium Appeared Institute Effective date of Certificate
11. Professional qualifications :
Degrees/Post Graduate Medium Appeared Institute Effective date of Certificate
12. Qualifications obtained relating to English language :––––––––––.
13. Please indicate whether you have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination or you have been exempted from Efficiency Bar after
completion of 45 years of age and the date of exemption :––––––––––.
14. Special capabilities  (Local/Foreign) :––––––––––.
15. Service particulars relating to posts held (If the given sheet is not sufficient please use a separate paper) :
Post Place of work Date
From To
Vice Principal
Deputy Principal
Principal
Assistant Director of Education
Deputy Director of Education
Director (Please indicate details of Provincial/
Zonal Director or any other post)
I hereby certify that the above information furnished by me is true and correct and I have earned the salary increments due to me
during the past 5 years and that I have not been subjected to any disciplinary action.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
406
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONAL DIRECTOR OF EDUCATION
I hereby certify that the information furnished as above by the applicant is correct and no disciplinary inquiry is pending against
him/her and that he/she has not been punished by any Court of Law.
––––––––––––––,
Signature,
Zonal Director of Education (Official frank).
Date :––––––––––.
RECOMMENDA TION OF PROVINCIAL DIRECTOR OF EDUCATION/HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
I hereby certify that the informaton furnished by applicant is correct and no disciplinary inquiry is pending against him/her and
he/she can be/cannot be released from the PPSC in event of station to the post of principal.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature,
Provincial Director of Education/
Head of Department (Official frank).
Date :––––––––––.
03–373
––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA   AIR   FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :
(a) Logistics Branch ;
(b) Administrative Branch ;
(c) Administrative Regiment Branch ;
(d) Air Field Construction Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Logistics Branch
Logistics Officers - Male/Female (Regular)
* A minimum of six passes at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credit passes in
English Language, Mathematics, Science and an ordinary
pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language in one sitting (additional
and optional subjects not considered) and ordinary passes
in three subjects at the G . C. E. A/L Examination in the
Physical/Bio Science/Commerce Stream in one sitting
and Graduate in BSc. Logistics Management/BSc. Supply
Chain Management/Diploma in Supply and Materials
Management/International Diploma in Supply Chain
Management/Graduate Diploma in Supply Chain
Management.
* Minimum of 2 years work experience in similar capacity
will be an added qualification.
(b) Administrative Branch
Audit Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
* Charterd Intermediate Exam with 02 years experience in
auditing/accounting ; or
* Chartered Final (Passed finalist) with 03 years experience
in auditing/accounting ; or
* Fully qualified chartered accountants with 02 years
experience in auditing.
(c) Administrative Regiment Branch
Band Master - Music Western - Male (Regular)
* A minimum of six passes at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credit in English
Language and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language
in one sitting ; and
* Qualified up to Grade V or above of the Royal College or
Trinity College of Music London or equivalent
qualifications ;
* Ability to train and conduct Military Band/Orchestra
and a Credit pass in Music at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination will be an added qualification ;
* Ability to compose music in Western and oriental tradition
as well as a sound knowledge on playing Western and
oriental instrument will be considered as a special
qualification.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
407
Band Master - Dance Troupe - Male/Female (Regular) :
* A minimum of six passes at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credit in English
Language and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language
in one sitting ; and
* Degree in Fine Arts from the Institute of Aesthetic
Education (Dance) in Sri Lanka or passed final level
(Dance) in National Dance and Music Examination of Sri
Lanka ;
* Ability to train on traditional and foreign dance styles
will be considered as a special qualification ;
* A credit pass in Dancing at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
will be an added qualification.
Band Master - Music Oriental - Male/Female (Regular) :
* A minimum of six passes at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credit in English
Language and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language
in one sitting ; and
* Degree in Fine Arts from the Institute of Aesthetic
Education (Music) in Sri Lanka or passed Final Level
(Music) in National Dance and Music Examination of
Sri Lanka or "Visharadha" Part II level from
"Bahathkande" Music Academy in India ;
* Ability to train and conduct Oriental/Western Bands and
a credit pass in Music at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
will be an added qualification ;
* Ability to compose music in both Oriental and Western
traditions as well as a sound knowledge on playing
Western and Oriental instruments will be considered as a
special qualification.
Golf Course Superintendent – Male (Volunteer) :
* A minimum of six passes at the G. C. E. O/L Examination
with four credits including credit passes in Mathematics,
Science, Horticulture and an ordinary pass in English and
Sinhala/Tamil Languages in one sitting (additional and
optional subjects not considered) and two passes at the
G . C. E. A/L Examination in Agri Science Stream including
a credit pass to Agricultural Science in one sitting ; and
* Diploma in Agricultural Science and successfully
completed the Turf and Turf Grass Management/Global
Turf Grass Management Course ;
* Minimum of 5 years experience is required in
Management and Construction of 18 holes Golf Course
with driving range ;
* Selected candidate will be commissioned in the V olunteer
Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot
Officer.
(d) Air Field Construction Branch
Civil Engineering Officer - Male (Regular)
* BSc Civil Engineering with charterd qualifications ;
* BSc in Civil Engineering or equivalent qualifications ;
* NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil Engineering or equivalent
qualifications.
Electrical Engineering Officer - Male (Regular) :
* BSc in Electrical Engineering or equivalent qualifications ;
* NDT/NDES/HNDE in Electrical Engineering or
equivalent qualifications.
Quantity Surveyor - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer) :
BSc in Quantity Surveying conducted by the University
of Moratuwa or Graduate member of the Institute of
Quantity Surveyors in Sri Lanka or Technical member of
the Institute of Quantity Survey or in Sri Lanka and one
year post qualification experience in the relevant field.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Civil Status : Married/Unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Age : As at 15th April, 2011
Logistics Branch : Not more than 25 years
Administrative and : Not more than 30 years
Administrative
Regiment (Golf
Course Superintendent)
Branches
Administrative : Not more than 35 years
Regiment (Band
Master) and Air Field
Construction Branches
(e) Height : Male - 5'5" and above
Female - 5'4" and above
(f) Chest : Minimum 32
’’ (Male)
(g) Vision Colour : CP2
Standard
(h) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6
(With or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may have a special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height, provided he/
she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
408
7.  Official Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be Commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot Officer,
Flying Officer Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as applicable in
keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at such
places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at any time
during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities as being
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her
control, he/she will be liable to have his/her commission withdrawn
and/or be subject to other disciplinary action in accordance with the
Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10.  All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time to
time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer shall
hold his/her appointment during the President’s pleasure”. However
an officer has no right to resign his/her commission unilaterally, but
under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, may be allowed
by the President to do so. The Provisions of any Bond/Agreement
envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect of training and
subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions of Section 11
of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from the Air Force
will be applicable under conditions specified in the Air Force Pensions
and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15(b)(15).
15.(a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :
Pilot Officer - Rs. 229,200 p. a.
Flying Officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 = Rs. 551,700
p. a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060 - 18 x 12,600 = Rs. 667,860
p. a.
(b) Service Allowances :-
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,250 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(5) Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100
will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 10,609.75 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(10)  Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
(12) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(13) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(14) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
(15) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(16) Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,850 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
16. Pensions/Gratuities. – Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 18th March, 2011
under registered cover. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked “Application for
Commission in the …………… Branch” Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance with
the requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
409
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies
of :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
(2) Certificate of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
(3) Certificates of character from at least two responsible
persons who are personally acquainted with the
applicant.
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
* Note.– Originals of these certificates should be produced
only if and when the applicant is called for the
interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after
the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of
Persons.
(d) candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
W. D. R. M. J. G
OONETILEKE,
Air Chief Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE
SRI LANKA REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE IN THE
……………… BRANCH
01. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
02. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––––––––.
03. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
04. Branch Applied :–––––––––––.
05. Post applied :–––––––––––.
06. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
07. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
08. Postal address :–––––––––––.
09. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
10. Height :–––––' ––––––".
11. District :–––––––––––.
12. Electorate :–––––––––––.
13. GS Division :–––––––––––.
14. Telephone number :–––––––––––.
15. Civil status :–––––––––––.
16. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Type of Year of Subjects passed
School/ examination examination (including
University grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University : (if
applicable)
Name and address Nature of Period of service
of employer employment From            To

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
410
18. Particulars of parents :–
Full Place of birth Occupation Present
Name address
Father
Mother
19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
20. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside
organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :–––––––––.
22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of
the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :–––––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
25. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public
Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank, National
Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the
Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :–––.
26. Particulars of testimonials :–
Name Designation Postal Address
27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :–
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are selected
for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of
the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
03–336
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment to the Pupil Nurses Training - 2011
(Northern and Eastern Provinces)
APPLICATIONS are invited from person with following
qualifications and residing in the Northern and Eastern Provinces for
recruitment to the Pupil Nurses Training on the bases of serving a
period of 10 years obligatory service in hospitals of the Northern
and Eastern Provinces after training under the Ministry of Health
(Recruitment of Male applicants will be based on requirement of the
Northern and Eastern Provinces).
01. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examinations from 2002 to 2009
with three (03) subjects at one sitting in any stream of
subject.
(b) Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects at
not more than two sittings with Tamil Language (Optional
subject is not applicable) and with four (04) credit passes
including of subject Mathematics, Science and Sinhala/Tamil
Language.
Certified Photostat copies of the candidates of the above
two examinations should be attached to the application in
support of the educational qualifications.
02. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 28 years of
age as at 11.04.2011 ;
(c) Height should be not less than 04 feet 10 inches ;
(d) Should be unmarried ;
(e) Should serve 10 years obligatory period of service in the
Northern and Eastern Provinces after training and should
be physically fit.
(f) Only those applicants who satisfy the above qualifications
will be called for the interview. The required number will be
selected at district level based on the merit order of marks
secured at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Certified copies of the voters list should be submitted in
the interview to prove 03 years residence within the district
applied for by the candidate immediate prior to closing
date of applications. If the name of the applicant is not
available in the voters list, the name of his/her, parents
should be available in the voters list.
In order to confirm the names of the parents, a certified
copy of the certificate of Birth of the applicant should be
submitted in the interview.
03. Method of application :
(a) Application should be prepared using both sides of a paper
in the size of 8 1/2 x 13 1/2 on the form of specimen
appended to this notice. The section 01 - 09 should appear
on page No. 01. Section 10 page No. 02 and section 11 - 13
page No. 03 as per given in the specimen form of application.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
411
(b) Application duly perfected should be sent under Registered
Cover to reach the Director (Admin.) 01, Ministry of
Health, No. 385, "Suwasiripaya", Baddegama Wimalawansa
Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before 11.04.2011.
The words "Recruitment to the pupil Nurses Training 2011
(Northern and Eastern provinces)" should be written on
the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing
applications. Applications received late will be rejected
whole the department will not take this responsibility of
any lost or delay of applications in the post.
The signature of the application should be attested by an
Officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountant Services/Principal of a
Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law
or by an officer in the public service holding a post with an
initial salary per annum not less than Rs. 240,360.
(c) Should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 500 in the stamp
cage provided in the application and cancel the stamps by
placing the applicant's signature on it.
04. Scheme of Training :
(a) The selected applicants will be admitted to the nursing
training school as pupil nurses and they should follow the
training course for 03 years.
(b) The trainees at the time of admission to the training will be
provided with rules and regulations in force within the
school of training. They are bound by these rules and
regulations and also by other rules and regulations which
would be enforced from time to time.
(c) If the trainees fail the prescribed exams during the period of
training or if their work and conduct are found to be
unsatisfactory or if they fail to comply with the conditions
applicable to the exams and leave or if the eligibility
furnished for the recruitment of the training is found to be
false, the training of the recruits could be suspended at any
time without payment of any compensation. The trainees
will not entitle for any type of leave during the training
period and deductions will be made from the monthly
allowance in the proportion with the number of days absent
from training. However it is compulsory to mark 80% of
attendance each year to become qualify to sit for the
examination.
(d) The trainees during the period of training in a school nursing
will be paid an allowance as follows :
1st year - Rs. 12,920 (per month)
2nd year - Rs. 13,040 (per month)
3rd year - Rs. 13,160 (per month)
The trainees, who pass the final examination, after successful
completion of training, will be appointed to the post of
Staff Nurse Grade III by the Director General of Health
Services on the relevant salary scales defending on the
availability of vacancies of the post in teh Northern and
Eastern Provinces.
(e) If they abandon or withdraw form the training during the
period of training, He/She will have to refund to the
Department the expenditure incurred for the training and
the payments and allowances paid to him/her during the
training period. Otherwise due action will be taken to recover
the said money.
05. Condition and the Agreement of remaining unmarried :
(a) All applicants should be unmarried at the time of submitting
their applications and it is complulsory that they should
remain unmarried, during the period of 03 years training an
affidavit signed before a justice of the peace confirming the
status of being unmarried should be submitted in the
interview.
(b) The pupil nurses at the time of admission to the nurses
training school should enter into an agreement with the
Director General of Health services that they complete the
training successfully and serve the Ministry of Health
Services minimum of 10 years after completion of training.
The Director General of Health Services will decide on this
period from time to time.
06. Term of Engagement :
(a) The post of Staff Nurse to which the pupil nurses are
appointed on the results of the final examination conducted
at the end of the training is pensionable and contribution
should be made to the widows and widowers orphans'
pension fund.
(b) The appointment to the Post of Staff Nurse Grade III will
be subject to the 03 years probation.
07. Service conditions :
(a) All the trainees before comencement of the training school
should undergo a medical examination.
(b) Appointment will be given to the vacancies existing in the
Post of Nursing Officer Grade III on the salary scale of
Rs. 15,620 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 -
Rs. 28,500 in term of MT 7-2006 "A" of the Public
Administrative Circular No. 6/2006 (iv).
(c) All the officers in the nursing service are subject to the
provisions in the Establishments Code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, rules and regulations
enforced by the Public Service Commission on Public
Service. Provisions in the Nursing Service Minute, Financial
and the other regulations and government circular instruction
and relevant all amendment to the other rules and regulations
enforced by the Government by time to time.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
412
(d) The appointing authority reserves the power to dismiss
the officer at any time whenever it is proved that the
qualifications furnished under subsections 01, 02 and 05
are false or incorrect.
(e) The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Health will be
the final in respect of issue arising and of the recruitment to
the training which are not convered by this Gazette
notification.
Dr. RA VINDRA RUBERU,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
RECRUITMENT TO THE PUPIL NURSES TRAINING – 2011
(NORTHERN AND EASTERN PROVINCES)
01. ( a) Name with initials (in English capitals) :––––––––––.
(b) Name in full (in English capitals) :––––––––––.
02. Postal Address (in English) :––––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent Address (in English) :––––––––––.
(ii) District (in English) :––––––––––.
04. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
05. Age at 11.04.2011 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Dates :–––––––––.
06. Male/Female : Mark 3 in the relevant cage
Male
Female
07. Whether Citizen of Sri Lanka : Mark 3 in the relevant cage
Yes
No
08. National Identity Card No. :
09. Height :  Feet :–––––––––. Inches :–––––––––.
10. ( a) General Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination (Please attach a copy of the mark sheet) :
(1) Year :–––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––. Z-score :–––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use only Subject Grade For office use only
1. 3.
2. 4.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
First Sitting :
(i) Year and the month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use only Subject Grade For office use only
1. Maths 7.
2. Science 8.
3. Sinhala 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
413
Second Sitting :
(i) Year and the month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use only Subject Grade For office use only
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
11. Have you been found guilty for any charge by a Court of Law ?
Yes :
No  :
If "yes" give details :––––––––––.
12. Certificate of Applicant :
(a) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge.
I am also aware that if any particulars contained there in are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification before
selection and to dismissal, if it is discovered so after appointment.
Affix stamps to the value Rs. 500 and cancel same by signing over it.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
13. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant ............................. is personally known by me, and he/she is placed his/her signature in my
presence on ................ day of ...................... 2011.
–––––––––––––,
Attester's Signature.
Full name of the Attesting Officer :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
03–368
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.