

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.03.2016
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PUBLIC  UTILITIES  COMMISSION  OF  SRI  LANKA
Exemption  Order
UNDER  SECTION 9A  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  ELECTRICITY  ACT,  No. 20 OF 2009 (AMENDED)
1. Grant of the Exemption
The Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”) in exercise of
the powers conferred by Section 9A of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act No. 20 of 2009 (hereinafter referred to
as the “Act”) hereby exempt any person or category of persons ( hereinafter  referred  to as the “Exempted
Person”) from the requirement of obtaining license to:
For the limited purpose of generate or distribute and supply of electricity where such person or category
of persons engages in community based, non-commercial micro hydro electricity generating project
with capacity of less than 100 kW, the number of persons among whom the electricity generated is to be
distributed is less than 200, isolated from the national grid, and subjected to the conditions contained in
this Order.
2. Approvals
The Exempted Person or category of persons shall obtain all the approvals required under applicable Laws,
Regulations and Rules necessary to carry out the generation of electricity, including and not limited to the
provisions of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009 (Amended).
3. Term of the Exemption
The Exemption hereby granted shall come into force on 07.08.2013 and, unless revoked or withdrawn subject
to the provisions of Revocation and Withdrawal of the Exemption in the Exemption Order below, shall
continue in full force and effect for a period of five (05) years from 07.08.2013.
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 1960$44 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 31 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'03'31
No. 1960/44  -  THURSDAY ,  MARCH  31,   2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.03.2016
2A
4. Revocation and Withdrawal of the Exemption
This Exemption may be revoked or withdrawn at the discretion of the Commission in accordance with Section
9A of the Act.
Chairman,
Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka.
CONDITIONS  OF THE E XEMPTION
Condition 1: Interpretation and construction
1. Unless the contrary intention appears:
(a) words and expressions used in the Conditions or the Schedules shall be construed as if they were in an
enactment and the Interpretation Acts applied to them ; and
(b) references to an enactment shall include primary and subordinate legislation and, in both cases, any
modification or re-enactment thereof after the date when this Exemption comes into force.
2. Any word or expression defined in the Act for the purposes of any provision of the Act shall, unless the
contrary intention appears, have the same meaning when used in the Conditions or in the Schedules.
3. In the Conditions and in the Schedules, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires:
“Approved” means approved by the Commission and “Approval” shall have a corresponding meaning;
“Licensee” a person holding a valid licence under the Section 13 of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No: 20
of 2009.
“Electricity Undertaking” means   any   person   engaged   in   the   generation, transmission, distribution
and supply of electricity;
“Modification” includes addition, omission, amendment and substitution, and   cognate   expressions
shall   be construed accordingly;
“PUCSL Act” means the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No.35 of 2002;
“Transmission Licensee” means  the  holder  of  a  licence  to  transmit  electricity under section 13(1)
(c) (i) (b) of the Act;
“Distribution Licensee” means the holder of a licence to distribute and supply or distribute electricity
under Section 13(1) (c) (i) (c) of the Act;
“Generation Licence” means a licence granted under Section13 (1) (c) (i) (a) of the Act
“Generation Plant” means any plant,  equipment, apparatus  or appliance used for or for purpose
connected with the generation of  electricity;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.03.2016
3A
4. Unless otherwise specified:
(a) any reference to a numbered Condition or to a numbered Schedule is respectively a reference to the
Condition or the Schedule bearing that number in this Exemption Order;
(b) any reference to a numbered clause is a reference to the clause bearing that number in the Schedule in
which the reference occurs;
(c) any reference to a numbered paragraph is a reference to the paragraph bearing that number in the
Condition or clause in which the reference occurs; and
without prejudice to any provision which restricts such variation, supplement or replacement any reference
to any agreement, Exemption Order (other than this Exemption Order), code or other instrument shall include
a reference to such agreement, Exemption Order, code or other instrument as varied, supplemented or replaced
from time to time.
5. The heading or title of any Part, Condition, Schedule or paragraph shall not affect the construction thereof.
6. Where any obligation of the Exemption Order is expressed to require performance within a specified time
limit, that obligation shall continue to be binding and enforceable after that time limit if the Exempted
Person fails to perform that obligation within that time limit (but without prejudice to all rights and remedies
available against the Exempted Person by reason of the Exempted Person’s failure to perform within the
time limit).
7. If there is any inconsistency between this Exemption Order and the Act, the Act shall prevail to the extent of
any such inconsistency. Conditions set out in the Act shall form an integral part of the Exemption Order in
addition to Conditions set out herein.
Condition 2: Provision of Information to the Commission
1. The Exempted Person shall furnish to the Commission, in such manner and at such times as the Commission
may require, such Information and shall procure and furnish to it such reports as the Commission may
consider necessary in the light of the Conditions or as it may require  for the purpose of performing the
functions assigned or transferred to it by or under the Act or the PUCSL Act.
2. The power of the Commission to call for Information under paragraph 1 is without prejudice to the power of
the Commission to call for Information under or pursuant to any other Condition of this Exemption Order or
under or pursuant to the Act, the PUCSL Act or any other enactment.
3. In this Condition:
“Information” shall include any books, documents, records, accounts, estimates, returns or reports (whether
or not prepared specifically at the request of the Commission) of any description and in any format specified
by the Commission.
Condition 3: Decisions, Orders, Directions and Determinations of the Commission
1. The Exempted Person shall comply with any decisions, orders, directions and determinations made by the
Commission pursuant to the Exemption Order.
2. The reasonable costs associated with compliance with such decisions, orders, directions and determinations
shall be the responsibility of the Exempted Person.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.03.2016
4A
3. In order to comply with any order or direction made by the Commission the Exempted Person shall allow
the Commission, any other authority or person specified in the order of the Commission such access to or
control of its property as the Commission requires.
Condition 4: Compliance with technical and operational codes
1. At the request of the Commission the Exempted Person shall, in consultation with any Electricity Undertaking
the Commission consider appropriate, develop and implement, such technical and operational codes as the
Commission may, direct from time to time.
2. Any technical and operational codes developed pursuant to paragraph 1 shall be submitted to the Commission
for Approval before they may be implemented.
3. The Exempted Person may propose modifications to a code that is in force at the relevant time by notifying
the Commission of its proposal in accordance with the code modification process set out in the relevant
code.
4. The Exempted Person shall give or send a copy of all approved technical and operational codes (and any
revisions thereto) developed and implemented by the Exempted Person pursuant to this Condition to:
(a) the Commission; and
(b) any person requesting the same.
5. The Exempted Person may make a charge for any copy of any code given or sent pursuant to paragraph 4(b)
of an amount which shall not exceed any amount specified for the time being for the purposes of this Condition
in directions issued from time to time by the Commission. The Exempted Person shall comply with the
provisions of any Approved technical and operational codes which are specified therein as applicable to it.
6. The Commission may, following consultation in relevant circumstances with any Electricity Undertakings
the Commission shall consider appropriate, issue directions relieving the Exempted Person of its obligation
under paragraph 6 in respect of such part or parts of any Approved technical and operational codes to such
extent as may be specified in those directions and subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission
may determine.
The Exempted Person shall comply with the existing technical and operational codes in respect of all activities,
until such time Commission approved technical and operational codes are available.
Condition 5: Environment
1. The Exempted Person shall comply with all applicable Environmental Laws in Sri Lanka, subject to any
exemptions or grace periods which may be granted to the Exempted Person
2. For the purposes of this Exempted Person, “Environmental Laws” means those laws which are, from time to
time, in force whose purpose is the protection of the environment, including the protection of human health,
flora, fauna and the eco-systems on which they depend and, for the avoidance of doubt, shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and all relevant legislation relating to
the assessment of environmental impacts and the protection of air, land and water.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.03.2016
5A
Condition 6: Health and safety
1. The Exempted Person shall take all reasonable steps to protect persons, plant, property and equipment from
injury and damage that may be caused by the Exempted Person when carrying out the generation or distribution
activity.
Condition 7: Dispute resolution
1. The Exempted Person may in respect of a dispute in accordance with the rules made by the Commission
under the PUCSL Act refer the dispute to the Commission for resolution in accordance with such rules or,
where directed to do so by the Commission refer the dispute to court or arbitration body in accordance with
the Arbitration Act, No.11 of 1995.
Condition 8: Electricity Generating Plants
1. The plants shall be electrically isolated from any other power plants licensed or exempted.
2. The plants shall not be electrically connected with the electrical network of other electrical distribution
systems licensed or exempted.
Condition 9: Non-discrimination in the provision of connection to the Exempted Person’ s Distribution System
1. In the carrying out of works for the purpose of connection to the Exempted Person’s Distribution System or
in providing for the retention of a connection to the Exempted Person’s Distribution System, the Exempted
Person shall not unduly discriminate between any persons or class or classes of persons.
Condition 10: Prohibition of discrimination in supply
1. The Exempted Person shall not, in supplying or offering Terms for the supply of electricity to consumers:
(a) show undue preference to any person or class of persons;
(b) exercise undue discrimination between any persons or classes of persons; or
(c) set terms which are unduly onerous.
2. For the purposes of this Condition, Terms are unduly onerous if the revenue from the supply of electricity to
consumers on those Terms significantly exceeds the costs of that supply.
3. For the purposes of this Condition, the Commission shall determine any question as to whether any Terms
are unduly onerous, having due regard to whether such Terms incorporate  charges which do not reasonably
cover the costs incurred in consequence of supplying the consumers in question.
4. In this Condition:
“Terms” means all the terms on which a supply of electricity is offered or provided, including terms as to
price, which significantly affect the evaluation of that supply.
04-645
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.