

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1987
1987
wxl 1"935 - 2015 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'10'02
No. 1,935 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 02, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1990
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1995
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd October, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th
October,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1988
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1989
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1990
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
MONARAGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd of November,
2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
14th of September, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Monaragala Bibila Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandian/ District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
General) of Bibila and Births and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Nilgala Division Monaragala
10–214
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1991
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd of November,
2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
11th September, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Sri Jayawardhenapura Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secre tary/Additional Registrar
Kotte of Colombo Division in Nugegoda General, District Secretariat,
Area Colombo 05.
10–117
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1992
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd of October,
2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
10th of September, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Registrar of Marriages (General), District Secre tary/Additional Registrar
Births and Deaths of Galle Four Gravets General, District Secretariat,
Divisional Secretary's Division. (Tamil Galle.
Medium)
10–33
–––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Amendment of closing date of Applications for Recruitment of Registrar of Marriage, Birth and
Death of the Registrar General's Department
KANDY DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar,  for the
Division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 1,926 of 30.07.2015 is extended as
24.10.2015.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
Registrar General.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
01. Kandy Panwila Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan, District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
General) of Panwila Divisional General, District Secretariat,
Secretariet Area and Births and Deaths Kandy.
Registrar of Panwila Division
02. Kandy Pathadumbara Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan, District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
General) of Panwila Divisional General, District Secretariat,
Secretariet Area and Births and Deaths Kandy.
of Udagampaha East and West Division
10–34

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1993
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Recruitment to the Post of Producer of the Executive
Service Category (Departmental) at the Department of
Government Information
APPLICATIONS are called from candidates who have acquired the
qualifications stipulated in No. 02 of this notice to the post of
Producer of the Executive Service Category (Departmental) at the
Department of Government Information.
1. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates who obtain higher ranks
in a structured interview, which is held for all qualified candidates by
an interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission,
will be recruited subject to the number of vacancies. The structured
interview will be held according to a marking scheme (cited under
No. 06) approved by the Public Service Commission.
2. Qualifications :
(i) Professional Qualifications :
Be an officer in the post of Technical Officer I at the
Department of Government Information.
(ii) Experience :
A minimum 05 years of experience in the fields of Video
Shooting, Editing, Laboratory related activities, and
Sound Technology at the Department of Government
Information.
(iii) Physical Qualifications :
Each candidate should be physically and psychologically
fit to serve in any part of the island.
(iv) Other Qualifications:
1. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
2. Should possess an excellent character .
3. Should have maintained a satisfactory service record
within the period of five years prior to the due date
4. Should have completed all qualifications required to
be appointed to this post before the closing date.
3. Conditions of the Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointees
should contribute to Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(ii) Officers will be appointed to this post on acting basis
for a period of one year. First Efficiency Bar Examination
should be passed within 03 years from the appointment
to the grade III of the Executive Service Category of the
Department of government Information as stipulated in
the recruitment procedure.
(iii) According to the Public Administration circular No.
7/2007 and its subsidiary circulars the respective language
proficiency should be achieved.
(iv) This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of
the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
Government's Financial Regulations and other
departmental regulations.
4. Age.– Candidates should not be less than 21 years of age at the
closing date of application and the maximum age limit is not applicable
for candidates who are currently in the public service.
Note :
(i) A Public Servant, for the purpose mentioned in the
article 04 above, is (as defined in the 1 st paragraph of
the Establishments Code) an officer in the public
service or in the provincial public service, who has
been confirmed in his post at the closing date.
(ii) Unless any public officer has gained a satisfactory
service record within the recent five years prior to the
closing date or within the full service period, if it is
less than five years, he will not be entitled to apply
for this post.
(iii) An officer is considered as having a satisfactory service
record, if only he has earned all the salary increments
within the recent five years prior to the closing date or
within the full service period, if it is less than five
years, and if he was not imposed any punishment
(except advising) regarding any offence within the
aforesaid period.
(iv) Candidates in the Public Service should forward their
applications through their Heads of the Department/
Institution.
5. Salary Scale.– The relevant salary scale according to the Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006 is SL-1-2006, which is mentioned
below :
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8 x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Monthly)
6. Structured Examination :
(i) The interview will be conducted by an interview board
appointed by the Public Service Commission.
(ii) Marks will be given in the interview as follows :
Fields considered in granting marks Maximum
Marks
01.  Additional Experience 30
02.  Additional Professional Qualifications 30
03. Special skills 35
04.  Skill demonstrated in the interview 05
 Total 100

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1994
7. Candidate's Identity.– Candidates who have forwarded complete
applications will be only called for the structured interview. Originals
and duly certified copies of all certificates should be presented at the
interview following identity papers will be accepted to prove the
identity at the interview :
1. Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration
of Persons.
II. Valid Passport
8. Method of Submitting Application :
(i) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach
the Secretary, Ministry of Mass Media, "Asidisi
Medura", No 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05 on or
before 25.10.2015.  Applications received after the closing
date will not be accepted.
(ii) A specimen of the application form is demonstrated at
the end of this notice. Applications should be prepared in
an A4 sheet by including heading No. 01 to .04 in the first
page and heading No .05  to 08 in the second page and it
should be filled in with candidate's own handwriting.
(iii) Cite, "Recruitment to the Post of Producer of the Executive
Service Category (Departmental) at the Department of
Government Information" on the top leff hand comer of
the envelope, in which the application form is enclosed.
(iv) Candidates in the public service or in the provincial public
service should forward their applications through their
heads of the Department.
(v) Applications that do not comply with the specimen form
of application will be rejected. Complaints on loss or
delays will not be entertained.
9. Providing false information.– Your candidature will be revoked
if any detail in your application was found false or incorrect before
the recruitment. If any false or incorrect information was revealed
after the recruitment he/she will be dismissed subject to related
actions.
10. The final decision on any matter not covered by these
regulations will be made by the Public Service Commission.
Furthermore, final decision on filling the vacancies, leave them vacant
or filling a portion of vacancies will be made by the Public Service
Commission.
11. In case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil and
English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
As per the directions of the Public Service Commission.
S. D. A. B. B
ORALESSA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Mass Media.
Ministry of Mass Media,
"Aisdisi Medura", No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
On 07th of August, 2015.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For official use only)
R
ECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF PRODUCER OF THE EXECUTIVE SERVICE
CA TEGORY (DEPARTMENTAL) AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION
1.0 Medium :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials in English block letters, stating initials
at the end : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
Eg. : SILV A, A. B.
2.2 Name in full in English block letters :––––––––––––.
2.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.4 Personal Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.5 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.6 Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Ind. Tamil 3,
Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.10 Telephone Number (if available) :
3.0 Experience :
3.1 Date appointed to the post :––––––––––––.
3.2 Total duration of the service at the closing date :––––––.
4.0 Professional Qualifications :
4.1 Date promoted to Grade I :––––––––––––.
4.2 Duration of the service in Grade I at the closing date :
––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1995
4.3 Date promoted to the Special Grade :––––––––––––.
4.4 Duration of the service in Special Grade at the closing
date :––––––––––––.
5.0 Additional Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
(Mention the qualifications gained by the candidate in the relevant
field among the fields of video shooting, editing laboratory related
activities and sound technology at the Government Film Unit)
6.0 Special skills :––––––––––––.
(Mention the special skills gained)
7.0 Certification of the applicant :
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
––––––––––––––,
Candidate's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
8.0 Certification of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who
applies for the post of Producer in the Department of Government
Information and who has placed his/her signature above, is serving in
a post of ............................ at the Department/Ministry of
.............................. and that his/her performance and discipline are
satisfactory and I hereby recommend the application being forwarded
by him/her.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Official stamp) :––––––––––––.
10–151
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS I - GRADE  III  OF  SRI
LANKA  INFORMATION  AND  COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY  SERVICE - 2015
APPLICATIONS are hereby called as per the order of the Public
Service Commission for the open competitive examination for
selection of qualified persons to 29 posts which have fallen vacant in
Class I - Grade III of Sri Lanka Information and Communication
Service. The applications prepared in accordance with the specimen
form of application which is at the end of this notification should be
sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner-General of
Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, P.O.
Box. 1503, Colombo on or before the date mentioned below. The
words "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class I-
Grade III of Sri Lanka Information & Communication Technology
Service" should be clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of
the envelope. Further, It is essential to mention the name of
examination in English Language as well, in applications prepared in
both Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
(a) Closing date of applications is 02.11.2015.
Note.– No complaint that an application or a related document
has been lost or delayed in post shall be considered. The
candidate shall bear the losses which may occur due to
their delay in sending applications until the closing date.
1. Method of recruitment:
(i) Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written
examination and general interview. Appointment shall
be made strictly on the order of the marks secured by
the candidates in order to fill the number of vacancies
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
allocated for the competitive examination. The number
of appointments and the effective date of appointment
shall be determined on the order of the Public Service
Commission.
(ii) 3% of the existing vacancies shall be allocated for
differently able persons. The differently able persons
who secure highest marks out of those who become
qualified at the examination shall be selected on the
order of the marks to award appointments. The
candidates who are qualified for appointment will be
directed to a medical board consists of consultant medical
practitioners and it should be confirmed by a medical
report of consultants that the disability of the candidate
does not hinder him/her to perform duties of the post.
2. Conditions for employment in the service :
(i) i. This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution
shall be made to the widows' and orphans/ widowers' and
orphans pension scheme.
(ii) Officers who are appointed to this post shall subjected to
a probation period of three (03) years and the first
Efficiency Bar examination shall be passed within the
said three (03) years.
(iii) Officers who have been recruited in a language medium
other than an official language shall obtain the proficiency
in the prescribed official language within the probation
period and proficiency in the other official language at the
relevant level as per P.A circular 01/2014.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1996
(iv) This appointment shall be subjected to the Procedural
Rules of Public Service Commission and the conditions
stipulated in the Service Minute.
3. Salary Scale. – A salary scale (monthly) of SL-I-2006
Rs. 22,935-10x645-8x790-17x 1,050 shall be entitled to this post as
per Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006.
4. Educational Qualifications:
(1) A degree in Computer Science/Information Technology/
Computer Engineering from a University recognized by
the University Grants Commission or a Degree Awarding
Institution recognized by the University Grants
Commission ;
or
(2) (i) A degree from a University recognized by the
University Grants Commission or a Degree Awarding
Institution recognized by the University Grants
Commission ( at least 1/3 of the degree should be
comprised of computer science/ information
technology) ;
and
(ii) A Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Science/
Information Technology from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission
or a Degree Awarding Institution recognized by the
University Grants Commission ;
or
(3) (i) A qualification of at least Level 07 of National
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) or an equivalent
qualification recognized by Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission ;
and
(ii) Having experience of two (02) years in the relevant
field.
Note: The originals of the relevant certificates should be provided
at the interview in order to confirm the professional
experience indicated in 4.0 (3) ii.
Professional experience gained at an employment in the
private sector should be proved by a letter containing the
business registration number of the institution, EPF No.
of the applicant and relevant appointment letters.
If the applicant has gained professional experience at an
employment in the public service, it should be proved by
the letters certified by the Head of the Department and
duty lists.
5. Age limit.– Minimum limit - 21 years
Maximum limit - 35 years
(Candidates shall be treated as having satisfied the
qualifications relating to the age if his/her date of birth
falls on or before 02.11.1994 or after 02.11.1980
6. Physical Fitness :
Every applicant shall be physically and mentally fit
(i) To serve in any part of the Island. '
(ii) To perform duties of the post.
7. Other qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Applicants should be of an excellent character.
(iii) All relevant qualifications required for recruitment to
the post shall be satisfied each and every way on or
before the closing date indicated in the notification for
calling applications.
8. The Procedure of Examinations :
8.1 Written examination:
8.1.1 This examination shall be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations
Subjects Duration  Maximum Cut off
marks marks
General Intelligence 1Hr 100 40
Knowledge on Information
and Communication 2Hrs 100 40
Technology
Aptitude on Information 2 Hrs 100 40
and Communication
Technology Management
Note: This question paper has been designed to measure
competency and skills of the candidate for the duties of
the service. Even though, this is a competitive examination
a candidate is required to obtain at least 40% of marks
allocated for each subject whilst obtaining at least 50% of
the total marks. Marks will be deducted in every answer
sheet for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes.
Appointments shall be made strictly on the order of the
merit in order to fill the Number of vacancies allocated for
the competitive examination.
8.1.2 Syllabus :
Name of the Question Syllabus
Paper
1. General Intelligence: It is expected to assess the level of
intelligence of the candidate in
analytical skills, logical comprehension,
interpretative ability, ability in
application to other situations and
arriving at conclusions, in response to
problems presented in relation to
numerical, lingual and figurative
structure and inter- relations. All

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1997
Name of the Question Syllabus
Paper
questions should be answered. This
question paper shall consist of 50
questions including multiple choice
questions and uestions for short
answers
2. ICT Comprehensions To test the' candidate's capacity for
conceptualization of ICT Management
ICT problem solving ability, IT
Project Management capacity and
analysis, design and development of
software system from a given set of
topics/themes. All the questions
should be answered. This question
paper consists of questions for short
answered as well as structured type
questions.
3. Aptitude for ICT This paper is designed to assess the
Management candidate's aptitude for sound ICT
Management in every aspect of
software development life cycle with
latest trends in ICT. All the questions
should be answered. This question
paper consists of questions for short
answered as well as structured type
questions
8.2 Interview :
8.2.1 General Interview: (Marks shall not be allocated)
Objectives expected to be achieved:
Verification of qualifications stipulated in the
notification published as per the Service Minute.
9. Conditions of the examination :
(i) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil or
English media. Candidates shall sit for the examination
in a language of their preference. A candidate must sit
all the papers of the examination in one and the same
language. A candidate shall not be permitted to change
the language medium of the examination, indicated in
the application. Every candidate shall sit for all the
three question papers.
(ii) Examination fee is Rs. 1000. Examination fee can be
paid in cash to any Post Office to be credited to the
head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations and the receipt obtained in the name of
the applicant should be affixed by one edge of the
receipt in the relevant cage so as not to be detached. It
is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt for
future references.
(iii) Under no circumstances the examination fee will be
refunded.
(iv) This examination shall be held on January 2016 in
Colombo. The date of examination shall be informed
in due course.
(v) Applications that are not completed in every aspect
shall be rejected without notice.
Note: Candidates shall not be permitted to enter the
examination hall without the admission card. Only the
admission cards on which the signature has been attested
shall be submitted to the supervisor of the examination
on the first day of the examination.
The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does
not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
(vi) Application should be prepared on paper of size 22-
29 cm (A-4) and the cages 01 to 03 should appear on
the first side of the paper and cages from 4.0 should
appear on the other papers. The relevant particulars
shall be furnished clearly by the candidates by himself/
herself. Applications that do not comply with the
specimen and that are not completed in every aspect
shall be rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep
a photocopy of the application with candidate. It is
the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that
the application form perfected by him/her complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice as
otherwise the application may be rejected.
(vii) Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. A
notice shall be published in the newspapers as soon as
admission cards are issued to applicants. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of
such an advertisement, steps shall be taken to notify
the Department of Examinations in the manner specified
in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep
the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations: i.e. a certified photocopy
of the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, in case of applicants outside Colombo,
letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the
admission cards should be sent.
(viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations shall
reserve the power to postpone or cancel the
examination on the approval of the Public Service
Commission.
(ix) Candidates are subjected to rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
on conducting the examination. They are liable to be
subjected to a punishment imposed by him/her for
breach of these rules.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1998
(x) Identity of Candidates.– A candidate shall be required
to prove his identity at the examination hall to the
satisfaction of the supervisor. For this purpose, any
of the following documents shall be accepted :-
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
N.B.–
(a) No document or a copy of the same should be
attached to the application.
(b) The applications of the candidates who are unable
to submit relevant documents whenever they are
requested shall not be considered.
The signature of the external candidates should
have been attested by a Principal of a Government
School, a Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths,
Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned
Officer in the Armed Forces, an Officer holding a
gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding
a permanent post in Public Service whose annual initial
salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
(xi) Commissioner General of Examinations shall hand over
the result sheet containing the names of the candidates
equal to the number of vacancies intended to be filled,
to the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration,
Local Government and Democratic Rule on the
approval of the Public Service Commission.
Issuance of results.– Result sheet including the names
of the candidates who have secured marks not less
than 40% for each subject at the written examination
and who have secured 50% or more out of the aggregate
marks of the examination shall be submitted to the
Public Service  Commission.
The results of all the applicants who have sat for the
examination shall be informed personally or published
in the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
J. D
ADALLAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Management.
11th September, 2015.
Specimen Application
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS I-III OF SRI LANKA
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICA TION TECHNOLOGY
SERVICE - 2015
(Indicate the Code/number clearly in the given cages)
(For Office use)
Language Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
* Are you appearing at the examination under the disabled
rehabilitation condition as per para. 01(ii) of the Gazette
notification ?
(Since, "Yes" in this section should be marked only by the
differently abled applicants, please read para. 01(ii) of the
Gazette notification carefully).
Yes - 1
No - 2
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1.0 1.1 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals Eg. : HERATH
MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA
GUNAWARDHANA)
1.2 Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
(Eg. GUNAWARDHANA H. M. S. K.)
1.3 Full Name :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Name to which the admission card should be sent :––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
1999
3.3 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Telephone No. (if any) :
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
4.1  If a degree has been obtained from a recognized university :
(i) University :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Degree :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––––.
(iv) Main subjects :
01. :–––––––––––––.
02. :–––––––––––––.
03. :–––––––––––––.
04. :–––––––––––––.
4.2  If a Post Graduate Degree or Diploma has been obtained :
(i) Name of the University/Institution :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Post Graduate degree, Post Graduate
Diploma :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Examination Year :–––––––––––––.
4.3  If  Level 7 of Information and Communication Technology
(NVQ) or other qualification recognized by the Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission has been obtained,
(i) Name of the Course :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Institution where the course was followed :––––––.
(iii) Year :–––––––––––––.
(iv) Duration of the course (No. of hours) :––––––––––.
5.0 Professional experience and other qualifications :
5.1  Professional experience :
Institution from which experience was gained Duration
01
02
03
04
5.2  Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
6.0 Particulars on the receipt obtained by paying the examination
fees :
(i) Office to which the examination fee was paid :–––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and Date :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Payment made :–––––––––––––.
One edge of the receipt is to be affixed here so as not to
be detached
7.0 Have you ever been convicted for any offense by the court ?
(Mark in the relevant cage) (If yes please specify)
Yes N o
8.0 Have you been subjected to any disciplinary punishment within
the period of service in the Public Service ? (Mark in the
relevant cage) (If yes please specify)
Yes N o
9.0 Certification of the applicant :
(a) I, solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I hereby agree to bear the adverse effect which
may cause due either to not filling or filling incorrectly a
certain part of the application. Further I declare that all
the parts of the application are correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false I am liable to disqualification before
appointment and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy
is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
purpose of holding this examination.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of Applicants’ Signature :
I, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................................. who
submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ...................... and he/she
has paid the examination fees and affixed the receipt of the payment.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the officer attesting the signature :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(Confirm with the seal)
11.0 Certification of the Head of the Institution (Government/
Provincial Government/Government and Non-Government
Co-operation applicants only) :
Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................................ who submits this
application is serving at .................................. Ministry/Department/

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
2000
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Legal Draftsman's Department
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR FILLING OF
V ACANCIES IN THE POST OF ASSISTANT LEGAL
DRAFTSMAN IN THE LEGAL DRAFTSMAN'S
DEPARTMENT - 2013(2015)
BY order of the Public Service Commission, applications are called
from qualified persons for the competitive examination to select
suitable persons to fill 04 vacancies in the post of Assistant Legal
Draftsman in the Legal Draftsman's Department. Applications,
prepared according to the specimen form appearing at the end of this
notification, shall be forwarded to the “Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo” under
registered cover on or before the date specified below. The words
"Competitive Examination for the Post of Assistant Legal Draftsman
in the Legal Draftsman's Department - 2013 (2015)" should be stated
clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope. In Sinhala and
Tamil applications the name of the examination shall be written in
English Language in addition to SInhala or Tamil language.
(A) Closing date of applications is November 02nd, 2015.
Note.– Complaints regarding any alleged loss or delay of
applications or related documents in the post will not be
entertained.
1. Recruitment Procedure :
* Recruitment will be done on the results of a competitive
examination and a structured interview.
* Candidates who obtain highest marks at the written
examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations will be called for the structured interview in
order of merit.
* Marks will be given at the structured interview by an interview
board approved by the Public Service Commission in terms
of a marking scheme approved by Public Service Commission.
* Suitable candidates will be appointed by the Public Service
Commission in the order of merit on the aggregate of the
marks obtained at the written examination and the structured
interview.
* The number of appointments and the effective date of
appointment will be determined by the Public Service
Commission.
2. Terms of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidate should make contributions to the Widows and
Orphans/Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) Shall acquire the proficiency in the other language within
05 years of recruitment in terms of Public Administration
Circular 07/2007 and other incidental circulars. The officers
who join the service through a language which is not an
official language shall acquire language proficiency in one
of the official languages within 03 years of recruitment
and shall also acquire the proficiency in the other official
language within six (06) years of recruitment.
(iii) This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of
the Public Service Commission, Establishment Code of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
Government Financial Regulations and other
Departmental regulations.
3. Salary Scale.– This post carries a salary scale (SL-5-2006) of
Rs. 28,095 -5x645 -5x790 - 15x1,050 - Rs. 51,020 (per month) in
accordance with the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006.
4. Qualifications :
4.1  Educational/Professional Qualifications :
(i) Shall be a person enrolled as an Attorney-at-Law of
the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Shall have obtained a Distinction pass either in Sinhala
or Tamil  language and in English language at the
G . E. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination.
4.2  Experience.– Shall have active professional experience of
not less than two (2) years after being enrolled as an
Attorney-at-Law.
4.3  Physical Fitness.– Every candidate shall have sufficient
physical and mental fitness.
(i) To work in any part of Sri Lanka,
(ii) To be able to carry out the duties of his office.
4.4 Other Qualifications :
(i) Candidates shall be citizens of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Candidates shall be of exemplary character,
(iii) Candidates shall have fulfilled all the required
qualifications as at the closing date of applications,
(iv) Candidates shall not have been found guilty of any
offence under the laws of Sri Lanka.
Institution as ................................... and I recommend and submit
the application. If the officer is selected for the post, necessary
action can be taken to release him/her from the service of this
institution.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
(The seal)
10-128
––––––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
2001
4.5  Age limit :
(i) Lower age limit - 22 years
(ii) Upper age limit - 35 years.
5. Syllabus :
5.1 Written Examination.– The open competitive examination for the recruitment to the post of Assistant Legal Draftsman in the
Legal Draftsman's Department consists of the following question papers.
1. Knowledge in law - 100 marks - time - 02 hours
2. Language Proficiency - 100 marks - time - 01 hour
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus Minimum marks
for a pass
01. Knowledge in law (i) Knowledge in the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
(ii) Principles of statutory interpretation including the provisions of the 40%
Interpretation Ordinance
(iii) General Principles of Law
02. Language Proficiency T ranslation of a part of an Act of Parliament from English Language to Sinhala/
Part I T amil Language
Knowledge in Sinhala/ Comparison of a section of an Act in English language with incorrect Sinhala/
Language T amil translation thereof an revision of the said Sinhala/Tamil translation in the 40%
proper manner ; and
Part II Question to test the candidate's knoweldge in grammer.
Knowledge in English Candidates should sit for two relevant question papers as applicable, from
Language Sinhala/Tamil/English languages
Shall answer all questions in each question paper.
5.2 Structured interview.– Number of candidates equal to five times the number of vacancies will be called for the structured
interview in order of merit, out of the candidates who have obtained the highest marks at the written examination conducted
by the Commissioner-General of Examinations. The Secretary wll decide the date of holding the structured interview. Marks
will be given by an interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission.
6. Marking Scheme adopted by the Structured Interview Board.
Serial No. Subject Maximum Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications : 15
A degree in law from a recognized university
* For First Class 15
* For Second Class upper 10
* For Second Class lower 08
For a First Class in the final year of Law College 10
For a Second Class in the final year of Law College 08
(Marks will be given only for the highest qualification obtained. Either the degree or
Law College qualification).
02. Professional Qualifications : 10
For a Post Graduate Diploma of not less than one year in the relevant field or Post
Graduate Diploma in law awarded by a recognized institution
(5 marks for a Diploma)
For a Diploma course of not less than 06 months in the relevant field awarded by a
recognized institution
(3 marks for a Diploma)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
2002
Serial No. Subject Maximum Marks
Certificate course of not less than 03 months in the relevant field awarded by a
recognized institution (2 marks for a course)
03 Additional experience as an Attorney-at-law 10
Exclusding the 2 year service period as an Attorney-at-Law required as a qualification,
to be eligible to apply for the post, 2 marks for each year of experience as an
Attorney-at-Law in the public service or in the private sector, subject to a maximum
of 10 marks.
(Additional experience shall be substantiated by a certificate issued by an
Attorney-at-Law having completed not less than 20 years of service or by a President's
Counsel or a Judge).
04 English language proficiency 05
Post Graduate Degree/Degree/Post Graduate Degree in law/degree in law, studied in 05
English medium
(All relevant question papers should have been answered in English Medium)
For a Diploma in English Language in a University recognized by the University Grant
Commission or in an institution recognized by the Government (1500 hours) 03
For a certificate course in English Language in a University recognized by the
University Grant Commission or in an institution recgonized by the Government
(720 hours -1500 hours)
05 Sinhala/Tamil language proficiency 05
For a Diploma course in Tamil/Sinhala language in a University recognized by the 05
University Grants Commission or in an institution recognized by the Government
(not less than 01 year)
For a certificate course in Tamil/Sinhala langauge in a University recognized by the 03
University Grants Commission or in an institution recognized by the Government
more than 06 months and not less than 1 year (720 horus - 1500 hours)
For a certificate course in Tamil/Sinhala language in a University recognized by the 02
University Grants Commission or in an institution recognized by the Government -
duration of more than 03 months and not less than 06 months) (360 horus - 720 hours)
06 Skills displayed at the interview 05
Total 50
7. Examination Conditions :
(i) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages. The candidates may sit for the examination in
a language of their choice. The candidates shall answer all the question papers of the examination in one language only. A
candidate shall not be allowed to change the medium of examination stated in the application. Every candidate shall sit for
two question papers.
(ii) Examination fee is Rs. 1,000. The examination fee shall be paid to any Divisional Secretarit or District Secretariat enabling
such fees to be credited to the revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner-General of Examinations and the receipt shall
be firmly affixed on the relevant cage in the application so that it will not get detached. It would be useful to keep a
photocopy of such receipt with the candidate.
(iii) The examination fee paid will not be refunded under any circumstances.
(iv) The examination will be held in Colombo, on January, 2016. The date of the examination will be notified later.
(v) The applications received after the final date for the receipt of applications and incomplete applications will be rejected
without informing.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
2003
Note.– Candidates will not be allowed to enter the
examination hall without the admission card. Only
the admission card where the candidate's signature
is attested should be produced to the Supervisor
of the examination hall on the day of the
examination.
The issuance of an admission card to a candidate shall not
be considered as an acceptance of the fact that he/she has
fulfilled qualifications to sit for the examination.
(vi) The application should be prepared using A4 papers of
the size 23 c. m. x 25 c. m. Both sides of the paper shall be
used. Heads 1 to 7 should appear on the first page, heads
8 to 11(a) should appear on the second page and heads
11(b) to 12 should appear on the third page. The relevant
particulars should be clearly written in candidate's own
hand writing. It would be useful for the candidate to keep
a copy of the duly filled application with him.
The candidate shall check if the completed application is
consitent with the specimen application specified in this
examination notification. It is hereby further notified that
the applications inconsistent with the specimen
application or incomplete applications would be rejected.
Candidates are expected to prepare the application
according to the specimen application form attached
hereto.
(vii) The officers employed in the Public Service shall submit
their applications through their respective Heads of
Departments.
(viii) The receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will send the
admission cards to the candidates who have forwarded
applications in due form. As soon as admission cards are
sent to the candidates the Department of Examinations
will publish a notification in newspapers in that regard. If
an admission card was not received even after 2 or 3 days
of such publication, such fact shall be informed to the
Department of Examinations in the manner stated in such
notification, together with the name, address and the
National Identity Card number of the candidate and the
name of the examination. If the candidate is from an area
outside Colombo, it is advisable, to make inquiries
addressing the fax number specified in the notice, together
with the letter of request which should carry the fax number
to which a copy of the admission card can be sent. It will
be fruitful to make available with you a copy of the duly
filled application form, a copy of the receipt in proof of
payment of the examination fee and a copy of the receipt
issued when sending the application by registered post, in
order to prove certain required information if requested to
do so by the Department of Examinations.
(ix)The Commissioner-General of Examinations reserves the
right to postpone or cancel the examination on the approval
of the Public Service Commission.
(x) The candidates are subject to rules imposed by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations for the conduct
of the Examination. If such rules were violated, the
candidate will be subject to a punishment imposed by the
Commissioner - General of Examinations.
(xi)Identity of the Applicant.– Every candidate shall prove his/
her identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the
examination hall. Only one of the following documents
will be be accepted :-
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons ;
(b) Valid passport.
(xii)N. B. :
(a) No document or a copy thereof shall be affixed to the
application.
(b) Applications of candidates who fail to produce the
originals of relevant documents when requested, will
not be considered.
Candidates presently employed in the Public Service or in
the Provincial Public Service or State Corporations should
forward their applications through the Heads of their
respective Departments/Instiutions. It is compulsory that
every candidate should get his/her signature, in the
admission card, attested. A candidate sitting for the
examination through an institution should get his/her
signature attested by the Head of the relevant institution.
Other candidates should get their signatures, on the
application, attested by a principal/retired principal, of a
government school, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice
of the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Attorney-at-Law,
Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the Armed
Forces, a Staff Officer holding a permanent post in the
Public Service or in the Provincial Public Service and
receiving a consolidated salary of or over Rs. 240,360 per
annum, a Viharadhipathi or a Chief Priest of a Buddhist
temple or a person in charge of a religious place belonging
to any other religion who is holding a significant position
as a priest.
(xiii) Punishment for providing false information.– If it is revealed
that a candidate does not have the required qualifications,
his/her candidature shall be subject to cancellation at any
time prior to the examination, or during the examination or
at any time after the examination.
If it is revealed that a candidate has submitted any fact
which he/she knew to be false or if he or she has willfully
suprressed material facts, he/she may be dismissed from
Public Service.
(xiv)Candidates who have scored more than 40% of the marks
assigned for each subject, will be subject to the structured

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
2004
interview, on notification by the Public Service
Commission. The result sheet prepared in order of merit,
based on the total marks scored at the written examination
and the structured interview, should be submitted to the
Public Service Commission by the Secretary. The
Commissioner- General of Examinations will either inform
the candidates who sat for the examination their results
personally or he may publish such results on the website,
www.result.exams.gov.lk.
8. The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, circulars
issued from time to time regarding the Public Service and the service
minutes relating to Executive service Grade III and conditions
contained in the amendments to such service minutes are applicable
to this post.
9. Public Service Commission will decide on any matter which is
not specified in this Notification.
10. The final decision to fill or not to fill the vacancies or to fill
part of the vacancies shall lie with the Public Service Commission.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and
English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
By order of Public Service Commission,
P
ADMASIRI JAYAMANNA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Adhikarana Mawatha,
Colombo 12,
On this 17th day of September, 2015.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO FILL V ACANCIES IN THE POST OF
ASSISTANT LEGAL DRAFTSMAN IN THE LEGAL DRAFTSMAN'S
DEPARTMENT - 2013 (2015)
01. The medium in which the candidate intends to sit for the
examination :
(Please insert the relevant Number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
02. Name :
(a) Surname with initials Mr./Mrs./Miss (In English block
capitals) :–––––––––––.
In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (In English block capitals) :
–––––––––––.
In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
03. Address to which the letter calling for the interview should be
sent to :
In English block capitals :–––––––––––.
In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
04. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
District to which it belongs :–––––––––––.
05. Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Insert the relevant Number in the cage)
06. National Indentity Card No. :–––––––––––.
07. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
Yes - 1
No - 2
(Insert the relevant Number in the cage)
08. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––. Date :––––––––––.
09. (i) Professional and other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
(ii) Highest Qualification obtained in the Second Language :
–––––––––––.
(iii) Highest qualification obtained in the First Language :
–––––––––––.
(In the case of G . C. E. (O/L) or (A/L) the year of
examination and the Grades obtained ( Eg. Credit,
Distinction) should be stated)
(iv) ( a) Degree qualifications :
Degree Subjects Pass Year Name of
(Class) University
(b) Post Graduate Qualifications :
Name of Post Year in which Post Name of
Graduate Degree Graduate Degree was University
awarded
(v) Experience as an Attorney-at-Law :–––––––––––.
(Attach a Service Certificate)
10. (i) Have you ever been convicted in a Court of law for any
offence : Yes/No
If yes, please give particulars :–––––––––––.
(ii) Examination fees :–––––––––––.
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
Date of payment :–––––––––––.
Office where payment was made :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here firmly so as not to get detached

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
2005
11. Applicant's Certificate :
(a) I, do hereby solemnly declare/make oath that the particulars
furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to
the best of my knowledge.
(b) I, am aware that if this statement made by me is found to be
false or incorrect before selection, I am liable to be disqualified
and if found to be false or incorrect after appointment I am
liable to be dismissed from service, without compensation,
subject to the relevant procedures. I further state that I am
subject to rules imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations in respect of the Examination and that I have
affixed hereto the receipt obtained on payment of the relevant
examination fee.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
12. (i) Attestation of applicant's signature :
I, do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who is
forwarding this application is personally known to me and that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on this ...........................
day of ................... 2015.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Full Name of Attestor :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(ii) Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I, hereby certify that I have examined the particulars furnished
above by the applicant and that the said particulars are
found to be correct and I also certify that his/her performance,
attendance and conduct are satisfactory. If he/she is selected
for the above post at the structured interview, he/she could/
could not be released from the service of this Department.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
10–281

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
2006
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2015
2007
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
OCTOBER 02.10.2015 Friday — 18.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
09.10.2015 Friday –– 25.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
16.10.2015 Friday –– 02.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
23.10.2015 Friday –– 09.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.10.2015 Friday –– 16.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 06.11.2015 Friday — 23.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
13.11.2015 Friday –– 30.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
20.11.2015 Friday –– 06.11.2015 Friday 12 noon
27.11.2015 Friday –– 13.11.2015 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 04.12.2015 Friday — 20.11.2015 Friday 12 noon
11.12.2015 Friday –– 27.11.2015 Friday 12 noon
18.12.2015 Friday –– 04.12.2015 Friday 12 noon
23.12.2015 Wednesday –– 11.12.2015 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.