

<!-- page 1 -->

101
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022.03'18
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 18.03.2022
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  08th April, 2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th March, 2022.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2022.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
101 - B 82325 - 353 (03/2022)
 Page Page
 Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 102
wxl 2"272- 2022 ud¾;= ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2022.03'18
no. 2,272- mARch  18, fRIDAy, 2022
Note:- (i)  Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 11, 2022
 
N. B. - Part IV (A) of the Gazette No. 2271 of 11.03.2022 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

102
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022.03'18
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 18.03.2022
miscellaneous notices
An AcT of IncoRPoRATe The ASSocIATIon of AccounTInG TechnIcIAnS of SRI LAnkA
I, Udayana Chaminda Kirindigoda do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53 (1) of the Standing Order of the 
Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill titled "An Act 
to incorporate the Association of Accounting Technicians of Sri Lanka".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Organization which has the  following general objects :-
 (1) to promote and develop  the principles, techniques and practice of the profession of accounting technicians :
 (2) to facilitate and/or carry out, education and training in accounting and related disciplines to students who are desirous 
of becoming accounting technicians capable of serving and benefiting employers, clients  and the public interest, by 
becoming  a part of the financial reporting value  chain;
 (3) to conduct  examinations  relevant to the profession of accounting technicians and grant certificates, diplomas and 
other awards to members of the Association or to  others, who fulfill conditions determined by the Council from time 
to time, for among other things, the grant of membership of the Association and recognize qualifications granted by  
other professional bodies for exemptions from examinations ;
etc.
 Udayana Chaminda  Kirindigoda,
 Member of Parliament.
03-201
PrinTEd   aT   ThE   dEParTmEnT   oF   goVErnmEnT   PrinTing,   Sri LanKa.