

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
869
869
wxl 1"632 - 2009 foieïn¾ ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'12'11
No. 1,632 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 11, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th December, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th
December, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 870
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.– Part II of the Gazette No. 1,631 of  04.12.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
870
Examinations, Results of Examinations, & c.,
OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CENTRAL  PROVINCIAL  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANT  SERVICE  CLASS  III – 2009
APPLICATIONS are called from those who possess requirements, for filling vacancies of Central Provincial Management Assistant
Service Class III posts.
02. Candidates eligible for this post will be selected under the merit of results in a written examination conducted by Commissioner
General of Examinations and in accordance with P. A. Circular 15/90, based on the ratio of population in the districts under Ce ntral
Province.
03. Number of appointments and effective date of appointment will be determined by the Central Provincial Public Service
Commission and it is vested with the powers for arriving at the final decisions on them.
04. Salary.– As per P. A. Circular 06/2006(IV) dated 24.08.2007, salary scale of Management Assistant Service Class III, II and
I is Rs. 13,990 -10x 145-11 x170-6x240 -4x320- Rs. 23,230. Should gain promotion to Class II to be beyond the salary step of Rs. 15,440
and Class I to be beyond the salary step of Rs. 17,310.
05. This post is permanent and pensionable.
5.2 As per P. A. Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007, should gain proficiency in other national language/languages, in
addition to language of appointment, within 05 years from date of appointment.
06. Qualifications :–
(a) Candidates should be a Sri Lankan ;
(b) Should not be below 18 years and above 30 years as at the closing date of applications ;
(c) Should be of a decent character ;
(d) Should possess following educational Qualifications :
(i) G.C.E. (O/L) with 06 subjects in one attempt to contain 04 Credit passes inclusive of Sinhala/Tamil/English and
Mathematics ; and ;
(ii) G .C.E (A/L) with passes for all subjects (Except general question paper) in one attempt. (under former
syllabus, passing 03 subjects in one attempt is adequate).
07. Selections under District Population Ratio :–
(i) If the number of vacancies allocated for a particular district as per district population ratio is not filled to relevant
district, it could be reallocated to adjoining districts within the province.
(ii) If the number of candidates who have obtained the minimum required marks at the examination is less than the number
of existing vacancies, selections will not be effected under district population ratio.
(a) Requirements for permanent residence :–
(i) Should establish permanent residence for 03 continuous years within the period of 05 years preceding closing
date of applications. Following documents should be produced at the interview in its support.
(ii) Residence certificate issued by Grama Niladhari and countersigned by Divisional Secretary. (In cages 2(a) and
2(ii) of relevant certificate, full name, number in electoral list and particulars of registration should be indicated
for the purpose of confirmation of residence through electoral list).
08. Out of the number of existing vacancies, 3% will be allocated for disabled persons. Relevant 3% eligible for appointment will
be selected, from those who pass the examination and based on the merit of marks obtained. To be eligible for selection a candidate should
obtain at least 50% marks. While a selected candidate is produced before a Specialist Medical Board, the position of the disability and that
it is not of any hindrance for performing duties should be established by relevant specialist’s medical report.
09. Curriculum.– Open competitive examination consists of two question papers. This examination being conducted in Sinhala/
Tamil/English Languages, applicants are not permitted to change the medium applied for :–

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
871
Question paper Marks Duration
I. Language proficiency 100 1 1/2 Hours
II. Aptitude 100 1 Hour
Language Proficiency. – This question paper consists of questions to gauge applicants’ proficiency in expressing views,
comprehension and application of simple grammar.
Aptitude.– This question paper consists of questions to gauge applicants’ arithmetical skills, logical strength and general
intelligence.
Although this is a competitive examination, candidates should obtain a minimum of 40% marks for each subject and at least an
aggregate of 50% marks to be eligible for appointment. Appointments will be effected, strictly in accordance with merit of marks obtained
to fill the number of vacancies allocated for competitive examination.
10. False Information and Penalties.– Application should be filled carefully, furnishing correct information. If any candidate is
disclosed to be ineligible under the regulations of this examination, his/her candidature could be cancelled at any moment prior to or during
or after the examination. If it is revealed at any instance that any information furnished by an applicant is false he/she could be dismissed
from Public Service.
11. Examination fee.– Every candidate is required to pay an examination fee to Central Provincial Council. Examination fee is
Rs. 600. This fee could be paid to any Divisional Secretary office in Central Province and the receipt issued should be affixed  to the
application. The said fee should be paid to be credited to Central Provincial Chief Secretary’s revenue Head 20-03-20-39. The p aid
examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances. (A photocopy of the receipt so obtained should be retained for fu ture
reference).
12. Applications.– Applications should be prepared as follows using both sides of a A4 (21x29cm) (Ordinary half sheet) size
paper, in accordance with the specimen application form at the end of this notification.
(a) No. 01 to 03 to be in first page.
(b) No. 04 onwards to be in other page.
(c) When preparing the applications name of the examination should be indicated in its heading, in English too in both
Sinhala and Tamil Applications.
(d) Disabled applicants should indicate at the top of the application in red "Disabled applicant" and the disability.
Applications not in accordance with the specimen, incomplete being not correctly filled and for which Examination fee
is not paid by the due date will be rejected without any notice. Applicants should bear the loss caused due to preparing
the application incorrectly. While retaining a photocopy of the application will be of use, applicant should verify
whether the application is in accordance with the specimen in the notification. If not the application could be rejected.
12.1 proposed towns for conducting the Examination and their code numbers :–
Town Code Number
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
N.B.– Permission will not be granted for changing the Town indicated for sitting the examination thereafter. If the
number of applicants for a particular town is insufficient, they will be referred to the town of their second choice.
If sufficient applicants are not available for relevant town too, they will be referred to an adjoining town.
12.2 All applicants who have paid the examination fee and forwarded the applications on or before the scheduled date
will be allowed by the Commissioner General of Examinations to sit the Examination on the presumption that
only the persons having qualifications specified in this notification have applied. Issue of an admission card to
sit the examination is not construed as the acceptance that the applicant has acquired the required qualifications
for this post. The candidature of the applicant will be cancelled if it is disclosed that any applicant does not
possess required qualifications, when called for an interview for ascertaining the qualifications in keeping with
the relevant notification.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
872
12.3 Duly perfected applications should be posted under registered cover, to reach the Secretary, Central Provincial
Public Service Commission, P. O. Box 114, Katugastota Road, Kandy on or before 29.01.2010. The caption
‘‘Competitive Examination - 2009 for recruitment to Management Assistant Service Class III’’ and the
administration District you reside in should be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing
the application.
12.4 Applicant’s signature in the application should be attested by a principal of a Government School, Justice of the
Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned officer of forces, Gazetted Police officer or an
officer who holds a permanent post in Government or Provincial Public Service with an annual salary of
Rs. 240,360 or more.
13. Appearing for examination. – Admission card will be issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations to reach the
applicant one week before the date of examination. Permission will not be granted to sit the examination without producing rele vant
admission card. Applicants appearing for the examination should produce the attested admission card to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre. Candidates who have not received admission cards should make enquiries from Commissioner General of Examinations, furnishing
following information :–
(i) Name of Examination ;
(ii) Full name of applicant ;
(iii) Post office, application registered at, registered number and date ;
(iv) Number of the receipt for paying Examination Fee, its date and the Divisional Secretary office to which paid.
14. One of following documents should be produced to the Supervisor of the Examination Hall to establish candidate’s
identity :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) V alid Passport.
15. Date of conducting the examination will be notified by the Commissioner General of Examinations in due course. All
applicants are bound to abide by the general regulations for examination, specified in Government Gazette.
16. Final decisions on conducting this examination, awarding of appointments and all other related matters will be arrived at by
the Central Provincial Public Service Commission.
E. M. N. M. E
KANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Central Provincial Public Service Commission.
Central Provincial Public Service Commission,
P. O. Box 114,
Katugastota Road,
Kandy,
25th November, 2009.
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CENTRAL PROVINCIAL
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT SERVICE CLASS III – 2009
For office use only
Medium sitting for examination
Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
(Not permitted to change the medium later)
Town applied for sitting the examination and number denoted to it.
Town Code denoted
1.
2.
1.0 Personal details :
1.1 Name with initials at the end (in English Capital) : Eg.- PERERA, A. B. C. :––––––––––.
1.2 Full Name (in English Capitals) :––––––––––.
1.3 Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
1.4 National Identity Card No. :

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
873
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address (In English Capitals) :––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.3 Address for Posting Admission Card (In English Capitals) :––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex : (indicate relevant number in the cage)
(Female - 1, Male - 0)
3.2 Date of birth :
Y ear : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at closing date of applications :
Years Months Days
4.0 4.1 Applicant's permanent residential district :––––––––––.
4.2 Divisional Secretary Division :––––––––––.
4.3 Period of residence :––––––––––.
5.0 Educational Qualifications :
I. G .C.E (O/L) :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
II. G .C.E. (A/L) :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
6.0 Whether convicted in courts under any charge on any day ? (Place 3 mark in relevant cage) (If yes indicate details) :
Yes N o
7.0 Details of receipt for payment of Examination Fee :
(i) Office Examination Fee paid to :––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt Number and Date :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––––.
Affix the receipt in this cage firmly (Retaining a photocopy of the receipt will be useful)
8.0 I declare that the information stated in this application is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief. Also,  I agree to
abide by the regulations of this examination and to accept the decision of cancellation of my candidature prior to or after examination,
if disclosed that I am ineligible under the conditions of the examination.
–––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––. Signature of applicant.
9.0 Attestation of applicant's signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who forwards this application is known to me personally and he/she pla ced his/her
signature on ..................... in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of Attestor :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
(Place official Stamp)
12–360
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.