

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.02.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2161$37 - 2020 fmnrjdß ui 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'02'07
No. 2161/37  - FriDAY,  FebruArY  07, 2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A- G 31961—22(02/2020)
PILGRImAGES  ORDINANCE
reGulAtioNs made by the Minister of Public Administration & Home Affairs and Provincial Councils & local Government 
in terms of section 2 of Pilgrimages ordinance (Chap. 175).
 Janaka Bandara Tennakoon,
 Minister of Public Administration, Home Affairs and 
 Provincial Councils & local Government.
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs and 
    Provincial Councils & local Government,
Nila Medura,
elvitigala Mawatha,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
07th February, 2020.
Regulations
 1.  these regulations may be cited as the regulation of Gangarama Viharasthanaya,Nawam Maha Perahera, of Hunupitiya, 
ibbanwala Grama Niladaris’s Division, Divisional secretary’s Division of Colombo in Colombo District.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.02.2020
2A
 2.  in these regulations,
  “Camp area” means the area described in the schedule.
  “District secretary/ Government Agent” means the Government Agent of Colombo Administrative District and it 
also includes any officer authorized by him in terms of Regulation 4.
  “Medical Officer” means the Medical officer of health in charge of the camp area,
  “Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose,
  “Police Officer” includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the camp area,
  “Public Health inspector” means the public health inspector in charge of the camp area.
 3.  these regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on account of the Festival of Gangarama Viharasthanaya, 
Nawam Maha Perahera of Hunupitiya, Gangarama, ibbanwala Grama Niladaris’s Division, Divisional secretary’s 
Division of Colombo in Colombo District.
 4.  The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to authorize any public officer in writing to exercise 
any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation.
5. I.  The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to regulate vehicular traffic or walking to or 
from or within the camp area.
 II.  No person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance with the instructions 
issued to such Police officer by the District  Secretary/ Government Agent for the exercise of powers vested 
in him under the Para. (1) of this regulation.
 6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of the District 
secretary/ Government Agent. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where carts are brought and cattle 
are driven to a place reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under regulation 7.
7. (1) the District secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to reserve or provide the following places inside 
the camp area :
 a. Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles,
 b. Places for leaving carts and cattle,
 c. separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims,
 d. Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick,
 e. Places for begging and solicitation for charity,
 f. Places for displaying certain items for sale,
 g. Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes,
 h. Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathing,
 i. t anks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and other places providing 
such facilities,
 j. Places for other purposes the District secretary/ Government Agent may deem necessary.
 (2) if the District secretary/ Government Agent deems necessary and in case of any place is reserved or provided 
for certain purpose under Para (i) by him, action shall be taken to erecting a notice or name board stating the 
purpose for which the place is reserved.
(3) (i)  in case of any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose under Para.  (i), that place shall strictly 
be used for such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp area for such purpose.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.02.2020
3A
   8. If the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer is of the view that it is required to add chlorine to 
any tank, wells, water holes or reservoir situated in the camp area or it is required to be closed for prevention of 
diseases, the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer shall have the power to do so.
9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary or permanent construction or any other construction or make a new 
addition to existing building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within the camp area, 
reserved or provided for certain purpose under regulation 7, except on a permit issued by the District Secretary/ 
Government Agent for the relevant purpose and in accordance with the conditions stipulated in such permit.
 (2) if any person builds any hut or temporary or permanent building or any other construction or make a new 
addition to existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I) of this regulation, subsequent to delivery 
of a written notice to that person, it is lawful for the District secretary/ Government Agent to order to remove 
or demolish such hut or building or construction within the period of time given in the notice as the case may 
be.
 (3) Where any person who has been delivered a notice under Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to act in compliance 
with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period stated there in or where a doubt arises as to who 
is the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered, it is lawful for the District secretary/ Government 
Agent to cause action to be taken to remove or demolish such hut building, construction or a new addition 
made to the existing building or construction as the case may be. It is also lawful for the District Secretary/ 
Government Agent to make arrangements to enter to any land or premises together with labourers, equipment.
 10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved for the 
use of pilgrims.
 11. No one shall contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal stream or brook located in the camp area.
 12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container supplied by the 
District secretary/ Government Agent for this purpose.
13. (1)  District secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to stream line the distribution of cooked meals and 
beverages to the pilgrims in the camp area.
 (2)  No one shall disobey any lawful order to be carried out by Police Officer or a Public Health Inspector in 
accordance with instructions given by District Secretary/ Government Agent in the exercise of powers delegated 
to him under Para (i) of this regulation.
14. (1)  Where any food or drink displayed or placed for sale or distribution among the pilgrims within the camp area 
is found to be contaminated or harmful for human consumption, the District secretary/ Government Agent or 
the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that such food or drink is not suitable for 
human consumption.
 (2)  No one shall sell or distribute within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable for human 
consumption under Para (i) of this regulation.
 (3)  It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling or distribution and destroy 
any food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (i) of the regulation.
 15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any place 
in the camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose under the regulation 7 unless they are maintained 
on a license issued by the District secretary/ Government Agent and in accordance with conditions stipulated there 
in. Every license shall be issued free of charge on recommendation of the Medical officer or any officer authorized 
by such medical officer.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.02.2020
4A
 16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses and Dansal and all furniture and equipment 
in such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
 17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for sale or distribution in the camp area shall be kept in show 
case properly made preventing the flies from entering to the satisfaction of the Medical officer or the Public Health 
inspector.
 18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shall 
be left at any place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be dumped into the container placed as 
provided in regulation 19. However wastes, milk dregs or any refuse have been found thrown over any place within 
the camp area or on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case of bakery, sweet stall, 
place where sweets are made or eating house or ‘Dansal’ the license holder of such place shall be deemed to have 
violated provisions in this regulations unless such owner, chief occupant or license holder proves that all necessary 
precautions have been taken and action has been taken with proper care to prevent the commission of such offence.
 19. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses, Dansal and buildings or constructions used 
for commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden, metal or plastic garbage container with a 
capacity of 1 1/2 cubic meters (4 1/2 cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden, metal or plastic lid 
unless it is used to dump or remove garbage.
20. (1)  if the District secretary/ Government Agent is of the view that any bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets are 
made , eating house, Dansal or business place has been established or maintained in violation of regulations 
16,17,18 or 19 in this section he shall order the authority to close down such bakery , sweet stall , place where 
sweets are made, eating house, Dansal or business place situated within the camp area or cancel any license 
with immediate effect if any license has been issued for such place.
 (2)  Any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets are made or eating house 
or Dansal or business place shall act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the District secretary/ 
Government Agent under chapter (1) of this section.
21.   No person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious diseases shall enter the camp area.
22.  (1)   it shall be lawful for the District secretary/ Government Agent to order the pilgrims to leave the camp area 
and for the District secretary/ Government Agent to determine the route of leaving and mode of transport to 
be used for leaving when on epidemic is spreading in such area.
 
  (2)   No person shall act against any legal order given by the District secretary/ Government Agent under Para (i) 
of this section.
 23. every person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area, and when a person 
is knowingly living together with a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease, every such 
person shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Officer immediately.
 24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where sweets are made, restaurant or Dansal within the camp area 
shall not allow any person whom he knows is suffering from infectious diseases or contagious disease to enter such 
bakery, place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or participate in the distribution, sale or manufacture 
of any material or food or drink.
 25. A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or an owner or 
chief occupant of any lodge or pilgrims’ rest shall not allow any person suffering from any infectious disease or 
contagious disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made, eating house, 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.02.2020
5A
Dansal lodge or pilgrims’ rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person suffering from any infectious 
disease or contagious disease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief occupant shall report it 
to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Officer or any Police Officer immediately.
 26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity either by cash or by any other means within the camp area 
except in a place reserved or provided for begging and solicitation for charity under regulation 7.
 27. No person shall light fire works or use any fire arms within the camp area without a written permission from the 
District secretary/ Government Agent.
 28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed in any place under regulation 7 or 10.
 29. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent, Medical Officer, Public Health Inspector or any 
Police Officer to,
 (a) enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of carrying out any regulation from among these 
regulations and,
 (b) t o construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice or 
a name board under regulation 7.
 30. it shall be lawful for the District secretary/ Government Agent to cancel the following at any time if he considers 
that the cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefit in the public interest.
 (a)  Any permission given under regulation 6 or regulation 27.
 (b)  Permit issued under regulation 9.
 (c)  Any license issued under regulation 15.
Schedule
  the margins of the land which belongs to Gangarama Viharasthanaya, Nawam Maha Perahera, of Hunupitiya, 
Gangarama, ibbanwala Grama Niladaris’s Division, Divisional secretary’s Division of Colombo in Colombo District, 
are indicated as follows :
North - sri Jinarathana road
east - Hunupitiya river road
south - W A D ramanayake Mawatha
West - Hunupitiya Cross road
02-455
PrInTed aT THe deParTMenT oF GoVernMenT PrInTInG,  SrI Lanka.