

<!-- page 1 -->

10 Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI  LANKA
CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
(AMENDMENT) ACT , No. 47 OF 1999
[Certified on 10th December, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 10, 1999
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED A T THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Rs. 6. 75 Postage: Rs.3.50
[Internet Version]

<!-- page 2 -->

1Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
H-022545
[Certified on 10th December , 1999]
L. D.  - O. 33/99.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  CODE  OF  CRIMINAL  PROCEDURE
A CT , NO . 15 OF  1979
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
  1 . This Act may be cited as the Code of Criminal
Procedure (Amendment) Act, No.47 of 1999 and shall come
into operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by
Order published in the Gazette.
  2 .Section 303 and 304 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as “ the
principal enactment”) are hereby repealed and the following
sections substituted therefor :-
303. (1) Subject to the provisions of this
section, on sentencing an offender to a term of
imprisonment, a court may make an order
suspending the whole or part of the sentence if
it is satisfied, for reasons to be stated in writing,
that it is appropriate to do so in the
circumstances, haveing regard to –
(a) the maximum penalty prescirbed for the
offence in respect of which the sentence
is imposed ;
(b) the nature and gravity of the offence ;
(c) the offender’s culpability and degree of
responsibility for the offence ;
(d) the offender’s previous character ;
(e) any injury, loss or damage resulting
directly from the commission of the
offence ;
Short title and
date of operation.
Replacement of
sections 303 and
304 of Act,
No.15
of 1979.
“Suspended
sentence of
imprisonment

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
(f)the presence of any aggravating or
mitigating factor concerning the
offender ;
(g) the need to punish the offender to an
extent, and in a manner, which is just in
all of the circumstances ;
(h) the need to deter the poffender or other
persons from committing offences of the
same or of a similar character ;
(i) the need to manifest the denunciation by
the court of the type of conduct in which
the offender was engaged in ;
(j) the need to protect the victim or the
community from the offender ;
(k) the fact that the person accused of the
offence pleaded guilty to the offence and
such person is sincerely and truly
repentant ; or
(l) a combination of two or more of the
above.
( 2 ) A court shall not make an order
suspending a sentence of imprisonment if -
(a) a mandatory minimum sentence of
imprisonment has been prescribed by
law for the offence in respect of which
the sentence is imposed ; or
(b) the offender is serving, or is yet to serve,
a term of imprisonment that has not
been suspended ; or

<!-- page 4 -->

3Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
(c)the offence was committed when the
offender was subject to a probation order
or a conditional release or discharge ;
or
(d)the term of imprisonment imposed, or
the aggregate terms of imprisonment
where the offender is convicted for more
than one offence in the same
proceedings, exceeds two years.
(3) The period for which the whole or  a part
of a sentence may be suspended (hereinafter
referred to as the “operational period”) shall
be –
(a) determined ; and
(b) specified,
by the court when making the order suspending
the whole or part of the sentence :
Provided that such period shall not be less
than five years from the date of the order
suspending the whole or part of the sentence.
(4) An offender sentenced to suspended
imprisonment shall not serve any part of the
imprisonment that is suspended unless –
(a) during the operational period the
offender commits another offence the
statutory penalty for which is, or
includes, imprisonment ; and
(b) a court makes an order under subsection
(13).
(5) The operational period shall be
calculated with effect from the date of the order
suspending the whole or part of the sentence.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
(6) If during the operational period an
offender is sentenced to imprisonment for
another offence committed prior to the
commencement of the operational period, the
operational period continues to elapse while the
offender is serving that sentence.
(7) An offender who is sentenced to
suspended  imprisonment shall be taken to be
discharged from the sentence at the end of the
operational period.
(8) A suspended sentence of imprisonment
shall be taken as being a sentence of
imprisonment for the purpose of any law, except
any law providing for disqualification for, or loss
of, office or the forfeiture or suspension of
pensions or other benefits.
( 9 ) If under subsection (13) an offender is
ordered to serve the whole or part of a wholly
suspended sentence of imprisonment then, for
the purposes of any law providing for
disqualification for, or loss of, office or the
forfeiture or suspension of pensions or other
benefits, the offender shall be taken to have been
sentenced to imprisonment on the day on which
the order was made under that subsection.
(10) For the purposes of subsections (8) and
(9), “law” includes enactments of Parliament,
regulations, rules and by-laws made under any
enactment of Parliament, the Minutes on
Pensions, and Codes or Rules made by or
approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
(11) If a court convicts a person of an offence
the statutory penalty for which is, or includes,
imprisonment and that offence was committed
during the operational period in relation to
another offence, any court shall deal with the
person under subsection (13).
(12) (a) If a person has been convicted and
dealt with for an offence the statutory penalty
for which is, or includes, imprisonment and that
offence was committed during the operational
period in relation to another offence, then a
complaint may be made to the court that
imposed the suspended sentence under
subsection (1) in relation to the other offence,
alleging those matters.
(b) A complaint under paragraph  (a)  may
be made –
(i) by any person ;
(ii)not later than two years from the end of
the operational period.
(c) A complaint under paragraph (a) shall
be in writing and be supported by an affidavit
from the complainant.
(d) If a complaint in writing, supported by
an affidavit is received by the court under
paragraph (a), the court shall summon the
person in respect of whom it had imposed a
suspended sentence and the person making the
complaint under paragraph  (a) to appear before
it at a specified place, date and time.
(e) A summons issued on a person under
paragraph (d) shall be served on that person
personally or left at the place where that person
was last known to be living.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
(f) If any person summoned to appear before
court under paragraph (d), fails to appear in court
in response to the summons, the court shall
issue a warrant to have the person arrested
and brought before it.
(13) (a) If on the hearing of a complaint
under subsection (12) the court is satisfied that
a person has been convicted of an offence the
statutory penalty for which is, or includes,
imprisonment and that the offence was
committed during the operational period in
relation to an offence in respect of which the
court had imposed a suspended sentence, the
court may, notwithstanding anything in
subsection (7) –
(i) restore the sentence or part sentence held
in suspense and order the offender to
serve it ; or
(ii)restore part of the sentence of part
sentence held in suspense and order the
offender to serve it ; or
(iii) i n  the case of a wholly suspended
sentence, extend the operational period
to a date not later than twelve months
from the date of the order ;
(iv)make no order with respect to the
suspended sentence,
and may, in addition, impose a fine not
exceeding twenty - five thousand rupees such
person.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
(b) If a court  orders an offender under
paragraph (a) to serve a term of imprisonment
that had been held in suspense, the term shall,
unless the court otherwise orders, be served —
(i) forthwith ; and
(ii)concurrently with any other term of
imprisonment the offender is serving or
is yet to serve.
(c) A court shall make an order under sub-
paragraphs (i) or (ii) or (iii) of paragraph (a) of
subsection (13) unless it is of the opinion that it
would be unjust to do so in view of all the
circumstances which have arisen, or have
become known, since the suspended sentence
was imposed, including the fact of any
subsequent offence, and if it is of that opinion,
the court shall state its reasons in writing.
(d) If in respect of a complaint made under
subsection (12) it is not possible for the court to
deal with the offender immediately, it shall
release him on bail upon such terms as it may
impose.
304. A court proposing to make an order
suspending a sentence of impirsonment shall,
before making such order –
(a) explain, or cause to be explained, to
the offender in a language readily
understood by the offender :–
(i) the purpose and effect of the
proposed order ; and
(ii)the consequences that may follow
if the  offender commits another
offence punishable with imprison-
ment during the operational
periods;
Court to explain
effect of order to
offender.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
(b) make an order for the identification and
fingerprinting of the offender. ’
  3 .Section 305 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
  4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Repeal of section
305 of the
principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Code  of  Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180
(Foreign). Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU , No. 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year
following.