

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 965
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 960 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"441 – 2025 cqks ui 13 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'06'13
No. 2,441 –  FRIDAY, JUNE, 13, 2025
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th June, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th June, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 
 Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
09th June, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
957 - B 082690 - 43 (06/2025)
Note.–    Parts II and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2440 of 06.06.2025 were not published. 
 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
958
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
959
Rules  and   Instructions   for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
960
Posts - Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths - Sinhala Medium 
KEGALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of the divisions set out in the schedule hereof;
01. Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Registrar of Births and Deaths Division and entitled to 
reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and 
influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the Division or else should have passed in any 
other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
05. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and enable easy access by all or majority of residents.
 Under circumstances where there is no adequate office facilities provided within the hospital premises, recruited 
candidate for post of the Registrar of Births and Deaths, should be able to establish his/her office at a suitable 
building located in the close proximity within 01 km from the Hospital.
 06. Additional details such as Village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Births and 
Deaths relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited 
in public places within the Division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant land and District 
Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in the 
schedule hereunder.
 07. Relevant application and the said “Annex-01” inclusive of Village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
Department.
 08. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 14 th  July 2025, by registered post to the address given 
in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
On this 30th day of May, 2025.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
961
Schedule
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kegalle Kegalle Post of Births & Deaths Registrar of 
Kegalle Town Division
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kegalle.
06-79
_______________________________
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Kandyan/ General) - Sinhala Medium 
RATHNAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages/ Additional Marriages for the divisions 
set out in the schedule hereof;
01. Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Births, Deaths and Marriages/ Additional Marriages Division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired 
sufficient interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a widow/ widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the Division or else should have passed in any 
other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 06. Additional details such as Village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Births, Deaths 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could 
be obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the Division such as District Secretariat, Divisional 
Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society 
Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “Annex-01” inclusive of Village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
Department.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
962
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 14th of July 2025, by registered post to the address 
given in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
On this 30th day of May, 2025.
Schedule
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Ratnapura Pelmadulla
Post of Births & Deaths Registrar 
of Pelmadulla Division and Post of 
Marriages (Kandyan/ General) Registrar 
of Nawadun Koralaya Division
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Rathnapura.
06-80
____________________________________
NATIONAL  DANGEROUS  DRUGS  CONTROL  BOARD
Vacancies
APPLICATIONS  are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to fill following vacancies in the National Dangerous Drugs Control 
Board.
 Designation            Number of Vacancies
1.  Director Positions
 1.1 Director – Drug Preventive, Education and Training – (HM 1-1) - 01
 1.2 Director – Research – (HM 1-1) - 01
01.1  Position - Director – Drug Preventive, Education and Training 
 Service Category - Higher Managerial - HM 1-1
         No. of Vacancies – 01
a.    Qualifications
a.1   External Applicants
Having obtained a bachelor’s degree from a subject field of social sciences recognized by the University Grants 
Commission.
With
Having obtained a postgraduate degree recognized by the University Grants Commission which is relevant to the 
field and position.
 And
Having at least 13 years of experience in the relevant field in a managerial level (MM 1-1) position in a Government, 
State Corporation/ Statutory Institution/ Board/ Department or a recognized private institution after obtaining the 
above first degree qualification.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
963
a.2 Internal Applicants (1 or 2 of the following qualifications)
1.   Having met the above mentioned external applicants’ qualifications.
Or
2.  Having completed at least 03 years of satisfactory service in the concerned discipline in Grade-I in Middle 
Managerial Service (MM 1-1) category of the National Dangerous Drugs Control Board.
With
Having obtained a Post Graduate degree in the relevant field of study 
b.   Age 
Should not be less than 35 years and not more than 55 years. The Upper age limit will not be applied for Internal 
Candidates.
c.  Salary Code No. – HM 1-1
d.   Monthly Salary Scale- HM 1-1 of MSD Circular 01/2025 (Rs. 140,640 – 15 x 4,100 – 202,140/-)
(In addition to the salary, government approved allowances and other benefits are entitled.) 
In addition to that, Provide the official vehicle facility and fuel allowance as per PED Circular 01/2015 (i) and 
(ii), communication allowance as per PED Circular 02/2022 and professional allowance as per MSD Circular 
01/2025.
01.2   Position - Director – Research 
 Service Category - Higher Managerial - HM 1-1
          No. of Vacancies – 01
a.    Qualifications
a.1   External Applicants
Degree in Sociology/ Criminology/ Social Work/ Statistics/ Chemistry/ Information Technology recognized by the 
University Grants Commission
With
Having obtained a postgraduate degree recognized in the relevant field of study recognized by the University Grants 
Commission.
And
Having at least 13 years of experience in the relevant field in a managerial level (MM 1-1) position in a Government, 
State Corporation/ Statuary Institution/ Board/ Department or a recognized private institution after obtaining the 
above first degree qualification.
a.2   Internal Applicants (1 or 2 of the following qualifications)
1. Having met the above mentioned external applicants’ qualifications.
Or
2. Having completed at least 03 years of satisfactory service in the concerned discipline in Grade-I in Middle 
Managerial Service (MM 1-1) category of the National Dangerous Drugs Control Board.
With
Having obtained a Post Graduate degree in the relevant field of study 
b.   Age 
Should not be less than 35 years and not more than 55 years. The Upper age limit will not be applied for Internal 
Candidates.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
964
c.  Salary Code No – HM 1-1
d.   Monthly Salary Scale- HM 1-1 of MSD Circular 01/2025 (Rs. 140,640 – 15 x 4,100 – 202,140/-)
(In addition to the salary, government approved allowances and other benefits are entitled.) 
In addition to that, Provide the official vehicle facility and fuel allowance as per PED Circular 01/2015 (i) and 
(ii), communication allowance as per PED Circular 02/2022 and professional allowance as per MSD Circular 
01/2025.
Common points for all posts:
Every applicant must be a Sri Lankan citizen and must be of excellent character with physical and mental fitness suitable for 
performing the duties assigned to the post as well as serving in any part of the island.
Qualifications must be fulfilled in every way on the closing date on which applications are received.  
Language of reference to the above post
Applications should be referred in English Language. 
Recruitment Procedure
Will be recruited on the results of a written competitive examination and / or a structured interview decided by the recruitment 
authority.
Nature of Appointment
This is a permanent post and entitle to Employees Provident Fund and to Employees Trust Fund. 
Application Fee
External applicants only will pay an application fee of Rs.500/- should be credited from any Bank of Ceylon branch to the 
Bank of Ceylon account number 1643 under the name of “National Dangerous Drugs Control Board”, and keep a copy 
of the deposit slip with you and send the original copy (Deposit slip) along with to the application form. Application fee is 
non-refundable.
Application forms should be sent to the Chairman, National Dangerous Drugs Control Board, No. 383, Kotte Road, 
Rajagiriya on or before 2025.07.14 by Registered Post. Specimen application forms can be downloaded from NDDCB web 
site: (www.nddcb.gov.lk). Your application must be prepared in “A4” paper using both-sides and with copies of certificates 
attached. State the post applied on the left hand corner of the envelope. Applicants who are employed in Government/ 
Corporations/ Statutory Boards should apply their applications through relevant Heads of Institutions/ Departments.
 
Applications that do not meet the eligibility criteria as per the closing date/incomplete applications/applications that 
do not include the original copy of the deposit slip/applications that do not follow the model application form and 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Decisions taken by the Board regarding recruitment are final.
 Chairman,
 National Dangerous Drugs Control Board.
No. 383, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
Published Date: 13th June, 2025.
06-99

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
965
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, HIGHER EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
Sri  Lanka  Institute  of  Advanced  Technological  Education
(SLIATE )
ADMISSION  OF  STUDENTS  TO  THE  ADV ANCED  TECHNOLOGICAL 
INSTITUTES  FOR  THE  ACADEMIC  YEAR  2025
APPLICATIONS  are called for Higher National Diploma (HND) programmes conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of 
Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) from those who have successfully completed the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination 
in 2024 or preceding years.
HOW TO APPLY  
The applying process for the HND programmes of SLIATE should be done only via apply.sliate.ac.lk  and any other means 
of applying will not be accepted. Applicants must read and understand the admission guidelines and follow the rules  and 
regulations therein when applying for the SLIATE programmes through online as well as getting registered for the selected 
programme of study through online. The admission guideline is available with the online application.
SLIATE is offering two categories of HND programmes as in the below table.
Category I:
SLIATE Academic Programmes select students 
based on Z-Score.
HNDA, HNDBA, HNDBF, HNDE (CIVIL), HNDE 
(MECHANICAL), HNDE (ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS)/ 
HNDQS, HNDBSE, HNDT(AGRICULTURE.), HNDFT
Category II:
SLIATE Academic Programmes select students 
based on a defined marking scheme.
HND IN ENGLISH, HNDIT, HNDM, HNDPM, HNDTHM
Eligible candidates can select ATIs and HND programme combinations based on their priority up to 10 maximum 
opportunities from two categories of programmes that are based on the Z-score and select based on a marking scheme.
Please refer to Section “A” for Entry Qualifications of HND programmes and Section “B” for the details of Advanced 
Technological Institutes (ATIs).
Eligible candidates can apply for 10 academic programmes of ATIs (ATI and HND programme combinations) at a cost of 
Rs.1,000/= from above two categories.
Application fees should be paid directly to the bank. Payments through Cash Deposit Machines (CDM) are not accepted.
The Transaction Reference Number (TRN) of the bank payment receipt should be entered into the online application.
Payments should be credited to SLIATE Account number 025-2-001-1-3397613 at Peoples’ Bank, Hyde Park Branch, 
Colombo 02 or any other branch of the Peoples’ Bank in Sri Lanka on or before 14 th  July, 2025.
After the confirmation of the online application, obtain a system generated hard copy of the application. A signed copy of the 
above application and the payment receipt should be sent to the 1 st preferred ATI by register post.
The status of the application during and after processing will be informed to the applicant via the given e-mail address. 
Mobile phone number or by post.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
966
Applications received after the closing date 14 th  July, 2025 will not be entertained under any circumstances.
After the closing date, selected applicants are informed through an e-mail/ SMS to confirm the registration for the selected 
HND programme through the system within two weeks. If the applicant does not confirm the registration through the system 
during the given period, he/she will not be considered again for any HND programme of SLIATE and his/ her the application 
will be rejected.
MODE OF CONDUCTING PROGRAMMES
 Full-Time Programmes
 Part-Time Programmes (During Weekends)
Medium of instruction :- English
Part-Time courses are conducted for those who are employed in the relevant fields.
PROGRAMME FEES
Full-Time programme fee – Free of charge
Part-Time programme fees per semester are as follows.
Higher National Diploma in Accountancy – HNDA     Rs.17, 000/= 
Higher National Diploma in English –HND in English     Rs.17, 000/=
Higher National Diploma in Information Technology – HNDIT     Rs.30, 000/=
Higher National Diploma in Project Management – HNDPM     Rs.20, 000/=
Refundable Deposit for a Part-time programme     Rs.10, 000/=
REGISTRATION
Originals and certified copies of the educational and other required documents should be produced at the registration. 
HOSTAL FACILITIES
A limited number of the full-time students will be provided hostel facilities on request only at the following ATIs.
 ATI Dehiwala and Gampaha - Only for female students
 ATI Ampara and Colombo - Male & female students
Section "A”
Entry Qualifications for the Higher National Diploma (HND) Programmes 
1. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA) 
1.1 Full-Time - 4 years 
 Applicants should have the following qualifications: 
 Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in the Commerce Stream in one sitting with Accounting as one of the 
subjects.
 and
 An Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
1.2  Part-Time - 4 years 
 Applicants should have one of the following qualifications: 
(i) Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in the Commerce Stream in one sitting with Accounting as  one 
of the subjects.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
967
  and
 An Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination. 
 and
 The applicant should be employed in the relevant field in a government institution / public enterprise / 
recognized firm or self-employed (entrepreneur). Should produce legal documents at the interview.
or
(ii) Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting. 
and
 Completion of any of the certificate courses given below conducted by the Department of Technical Edu-
cation & Training (DTET). 
   A.   Higher National Diploma in Accounting Sector.
   B.   National Certificate in Accounting Technicians.
   C.   National Certificate in Business Studies. 
   D.   National Certificate in Accounting. 
                 and
 An Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination. 
and
 The applicant should be employed in the relevant field in a government institution / public enterprise / 
recognized firm or self-employed (entrepreneur). Should produce legal documents at the interview.
Note 1: Any Part-Time HNDA applicant from the Commerce Stream who has one or more of the following qualifications 
will be exempted from the first year and enrolled in the second year if other entry requirements are met and the 
capacity of the ATI is available.
 i. Completion of the Higher National Diploma in Business Administration/ Business Finance & National Diploma 
in Business Studies conducted by the SLIATE. 
 ii. Have a Degree in Management discipline.
 iii. Completion of Business Level I & II (or Executive level or CAB I and CAB II or Foundation & Intermediate 
level or Licentiate I and II) conducted by the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
 iv. Completion of part I and part II of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA – UK).
 v. Completion of part I and part II of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA-UK)
 vi. Completion of the Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT). 
 vii. Completion of ACMA conducted by the Institute of Certified Management Accountants   (CMA-Sri Lanka). 
Note 2: According to the Public Administration Circular No. 46/90, the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy has 
been recognized to be accepted as an alternative qualification to a General Degree in Commerce (Ordinary 
pass), awarded by a recognized university registered under the University Grants Commission (UGC) for 
recruitment purposes. 
2.  Higher National Diploma in Business Administration – (HNDBA) Full-Time – 2 ½ years
3.  Higher National Diploma in Business Finance – (HNDBF) Full-Time – 2 ½ years

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
968
 Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in Commerce stream
and
        Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination
4.  Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE - Civil): Full-Time – 3 ½ years
5.  Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE - Electrical & Electronics): Full-Time-3½ years 
6.  Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE - Mechanical):  Full-Time – 3 ½ years     
7.  Higher National Diploma in Quantity Surveying (HNDQS):   Full-Time – 2 ½ years
8.  Higher National Diploma in Building Services Engineering (HNDBSE):  Full-Time – 3 ½ years
  Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in Physical Science stream (Chemistry, Physics and Com-
bined Mathematics)
and
 An Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
9.  Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) 
9.1  Full-Time – 2 ½ years
 Applicants should have the following qualifications:
(a) Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in any stream (General English will not be 
considered as one of the main three subjects)
and
(b) Credit pass for English and ordinary pass for Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
or
 Ordinary pass for Appreciation of English Literary Text and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) 
examination.
9.2  Part-Time – 2 ½ years
 In addition to the above qualifications in 9.1, the applicant should be employed in the relevant field in 
a government institution / public enterprise / recognized firm or self-employed (entrepreneur). Should 
produce legal documents at the interview.
10. Higher National Diploma in Food Technology (HNDFT) Full-Time – 2 ½ years
 Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in Bio Science  or Physical Science  stream.
and
 Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
969
11. Higher National Diploma in Information Technology (HNDIT) 
11.1 Full Time – 2 ½ years
 Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in any stream.
and
 Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
11.2  Part-Time – 2 ½ years 
 In addition to the qualifications in 11.1, the applicant should be employed in the relevant field in a 
government institution / public enterprise / recognized firm or self-employed (entrepreneur). Should 
produce legal documents at the interview.
12. Higher National Diploma in Management (HNDM) Full-Time –   3 years
 Applicants should have the following qualifications:
(i) Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in any stream:
and
Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination:
or
(ii)    National Certificate for Accounting Technicians or National Certificate in Business Studies (Public 
Administration / Marketing) conducted by the Department of Technical Education & Training.
and
 Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination. 
13. Higher National Diploma in Project Management (HNDPM) 
13.1  Full-Time –2 ½ years
 Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in any stream.
 and
  Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
13.2  Part-Time – 2 ½ years 
 In addition to the qualifications in 13.1, the applicant should be employed in the relevant field in a 
government institution / public enterprise / recognized firm or self-employed (entrepreneur). Should 
produce legal documents at the interview.
14. Higher National Diploma in Technology (Agriculture) – (HNDT- Agriculture) 
 Full-Time – 3 years
 Applicants should have the following qualifications:

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
970
(i) Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in Bio - Science  stream (Including Biology and 
Chemistry together with Physics or Agriculture). 
     and
 Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L) examination.
or
(ii) Passed the G. C. E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in Bio-System Technology stream including subjects 
Bio-System Technology, Science for Technology and Agriculture.
and
            Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L) examination.
15. Higher National Diploma in Tourism & Hospitality Management – (HNDTHM)
 Full-Time – 3 years
      Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 Passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting in any stream.
and
Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
Section "B”
Names of ATIs, Addresses, Telephone Numbers and the Higher National Diploma (HND) courses [Full Time (FT) 
& Part Time (PT)]
Name of ATI Address Telephone
Numbers Courses Offered
01
Hardy Advanced
Technological 
Institute - Ampara
Prof. Even A Hardy 
Mawatha, Ampara.
063-2222056
063-2223035
HNDT (Agriculture)(FT), HNDA (FT), 
HNDM(FT), HNDIT (FT), HNDTHM(FT), 
HND in English (FT), 
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT) HNDIT 
(PT)
02 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Anuradhapura
Akkara 111,
Anula Mw, 
Pandulagama,
Anuradhapura.
025-2234417
 HNDIT(FT), HNDA (FT), HND in English 
(FT),  
 HNDIT(PT) HNDA (PT), HND in English 
(PT) 
03 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Badulla
Greenland Drive, 
Badulla.
055-2230218
055-2223818
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HNDM(FT),  
HND in English (FT), HNDTHM(FT), 
HNDIT (PT), HNDA (PT),HND in English 
(PT) 
04 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Batticaloa
Main Street, 
Kovil Kulam 
East,  
Arayampathy, 
Batticaloa.
065-2247519
065-2247470
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HND in 
English,(FT) HNDA (PT),  HND in English 
(PT), HNDIT(PT).

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
971
Name of ATI Address Telephone
Numbers Courses Offered
05 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Colombo
No. 42,
Rodrigo Place, 
Colombo 15.
011-2521152
011-2521282
HNDE (Civil)(FT), HNDE(Mechanical)(FT), 
HNDE (Electrical & Electronics) (FT) 
HNDQS(FT), HNDBSE(FT)
06 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Dehiwala
No. 51, Waidya 
Rd, Dehiwala. 011-2738349
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HNDM (FT), 
HNDBA (FT), HND in English (FT), 
HNDBF(FT), HNDTHM(FT),
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT).
07 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Galle
Siridamma Mw,
Labuduwa, 
Akmeemana,
Galle.
091-2246179
HNDE (Civil)(FT), HNDE(Mechanical)(FT), 
HNDE (Electrical & Electronics) (FT) 
HNDQS(FT), HNDIT (FT), 
HNDT(Agriculture)(FT),  
HNDA (FT), HNDM(FT), HNDTHM(FT), 
HNDBA(FT), HND in English (FT), 
HNDA (PT), HNDIT (PT), HND in English 
(PT)
08 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Gampaha
Naiwala, 
Essalla,
Veyangoda.
033-2287519
033-2292544
HNDT (Agriculture) (FT), HNDIT (FT),  
HNDFT(FT), HNDA (FT), 
HNDA (PT),), HNDIT (PT), HND in English 
(PT)
09 Advanced Technological
Institute - Jaffna
No. 665/2,
Beach Rd. 
Gurunagar, Jaffna.
021-2222595
021-2229803
HNDE (Civil)(FT), HNDE 
(Electrical & Electronics) (FT), HNDQS(FT),
HNDA (FT), HND in English(FT), 
HNDM(FT), HNDIT (FT)  
HNDIT (PT), HNDA (PT), HND in English 
(PT), HND PM (PT)
10 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Kandy
No. 16, 
Keppetipola 
Mawatha, Kandy. 081-2232097
081-2226644
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HNDM(FT), 
HNDBA(FT), HND in English (FT), 
HNDTHM (FT)
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT), HNDIT 
(PT).
11 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Kegalle
Bandaranayake 
Mawatha, Kegalle.
035-2221297
035-2221713
HNDIT(FT), HNDA(FT), HND in English 
(FT), HNDPM(FT), HNDA (PT), HND in 
English (PT).
12 Advanced Technological   
Institute - Kurunegala
No. 22/1,
Wilgoda Rd, 
Kurunegala.
037-2229583
037-2224911
HNDIT(FT),HNDA(FT),HNDM(FT),  
HND in English (FT), HNDTHM(FT), 
HNDIT (PT),  HNDA (PT), HND in 
English(PT).
13 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Mannar
Uylankulam. 
Mannar. 023-2223045
076 7966111
HND in English (FT),  
HNDIT (FT).
14 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Nawalapitiya
Heinford Waththa, 
Manakanda
Nawalapitiya. 
077- 6594248
HNDTHM (FT), HNDM(FT), HND English 
(FT), HNDIT (FT), HND in English (PT), 
HNDIT (PT). HNDBF (FT)

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
972
Name of ATI Address Telephone
Numbers Courses Offered
15 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Rathnapura
New Town, 
Ratnapura.
045-2231492
045-2231493
HNDIT(FT),HNDA(FT), HND in English 
(FT) 
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT)
16 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Sammanthurai
ATI Avenue,
Sammanthurai. 067-2261304
HNDIT (FT),HNDA (FT), HND in English 
(FT),  HNDM (FT)  
HNDIT (PT),HNDA (PT), HND in English 
(PT) 
17
 
Advanced Technological 
Institute - Tangalle Yayawaththa, 
Netolpitiya, Tangalle.
047-2241845
047-2241846
HNDIT (FT), HNDA (FT), HND in English 
(FT)
 
18 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Trincomalee
Kanniya Rd,
Varothayanagar, 
Trincomalee.
026-2223232 HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT), HNDIT 
(FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT),
HNDIT (PT) 
19 Advanced Technological 
Institute - Vavuniya
Off A 9 Road, 
Veppankulam, 
Ómanthai, Vavuniya. 024-2052733
077-6162010
HNDA (FT), HND in English(FT) 
HNDA (PT), HND in English (PT), HNDIT 
(FT), HNDIT (PT).
Note:
1. The applicant should fulfil the required entry qualifications before the closing date of applications.
2.  Students who have been/are registered to pursue a full-time (HND) course of three years or more conducted by 
Advanced Technological Institutes ATIs of the Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) 
shall not be eligible for admission to any Government University or Higher Education Institute established under the 
university Act, No: 16 of 1978 (as amended from time to time).
HND Programmes of 3 years or more:
 (i) Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA) 
 (ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE - Civil)
 (iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE - Electrical & Electronics)
 (iv) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE - Mechanical)
 (v) Higher National Diploma in Building Services Engineering (HNDBSE)
 (vi) Higher National Diploma in Technology (Agriculture) – (HNDT- Agriculture) 
 (vii) Higher National Diploma in Management (HNDM)
 (viii) Higher National Diploma in Tourism & Hospitality Management – (HNDTHM)
3.   Preference will be given to full-time students who are below 23 years of age. Priority will be given to the applicants 
who have successfully completed the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination in 2024.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
973
4.    At least 50 students should be registered in a particular study programme to commence the course at a particular ATI. 
If there is no sufficient number of applicants to commence the programme, such students will be transferred to the 
nearest ATI where the same programme is conducted. The final decision will be taken by the Director General. 
5. Full-time students of all the courses should attend lectures during weekdays and if required, during weekends.
6. Part-time courses will be conducted during weekends.
7. Mode of delivery of academic activities for both of full-time and part-time courses will be mainly in physical mode 
(in-class). However, Hybrid mode might be applied depending on the requirement.
8. The first and second years of HNDA (Full-Time) programme is conducted only on weekdays. The third and fourth 
years are conducted during weekends.
9. Students of full-time programmes must undergo in-plant training for minimum six months in the relevant field. Part 
time students must undertake a project/ industrial training for a minimum six months in the relevant field.
10. Part-time applicants should be employed in a relevant field. 
11. Once a student has been enrolled in a full-time course, transferring to any other ATI will not be entertained 
under any circumstances. 
12. Students who have registered for any HND course would be allowed to cancel their registration before 60 days starting 
from the closing date of registration given by the SLIATE without any penalty. The last date for student registration/ 
closing date for the registration will be a day before the Inauguration/ student orientation programme.
13. (i) Rs.5, 000.00 per month will be charged for the period of stay from the full-time students who are cancelling their 
registration after 60 days. A maximum of Rs. 30,000.00 will be charged from full-time students who cancel the 
registration in a six-month period or more.
 (ii) Initial refundable deposit of Rs. 10,000.00/- will be charged at the registration of part-time students and it will be 
refunded at the end of the programme. If the student leaves earlier from the programm, then this deposit will not 
be refunded. A discount of 10% will be given to the part-time applicants who pay the whole fees in the registration 
as a lump sum.
14. Semester-end examinations will be held for both full-time and part-time students during weekdays and weekends.
15. G.C.E. (A/L) and G.C.E. (O/L) Examinations must be the examinations administered by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
16. The application of any applicant who has provided false information will be rejected.
17. The decision of the Director General of SLIATE will be the final decision for the admission of students to Advanced 
Technological Institutes for the academic year 2025.
18. Recruitment will be done based on the available seating capacity of the ATIs.
19. Students who do not have access to online application facilities can visit the nearest ATI to obtain the services.
20. When applying for Advanced Technological Institutes and HND Programs, it is advisable for candidates to apply to 
the Advanced Technological Institutes nearest to their place of residence.
21. For more information please visit the web site: www.sliate.ac.lk
CLOSING DATE OF APPLICATIONS 14th July 2025.
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) 
53A, Waidya Road,
Dehiwala.
06-75

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
974
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
Court Typist (Sinhala/Tamil /English) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service 
in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service -  2025
01. IN  terms of provisions set out in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service Minute published in Extraordinary Gazette 
bearing No.2088/26 dated 11.09.2018, applications are called from Sri Lankan citizens who possess the required 
qualifications for the Open Competitive Examination for the recruitment of Court Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English) Grade 
III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service - 2025.
 It is hereby notified that this examination will be held in Colombo by the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission. 
The Secretary, Judicial Service Commission reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to the 
instructions of the Judicial Service Commission.
02. Conditions of Service :
 2.1 Court Typists recruited  subject to the provisions of the Constitution and provisions of the Scheduled Public 
Officer’s Service Minute, will be subject to the Establishments Code, Financial Regulations, and circulars, 
regulations and directions that have been already issued and may be issued by the Commission from time to 
time. 
  2.2 This appointment is subject to a probation period of three years. The Efficiency Bar Examination should be 
passed before 05 years from the recruitment to Court Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English)  Grade III of the Court 
Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service as prescribed in the Service Minute.
 2.3 The Secretary, Judicial Service Commission is vested with the power to cancel the appointments of the  
applicants who fail to assume duties in the post to which they are  appointed on the due date and/or  applicants 
who  refuse or neglect to assume duties in a  post or in an area into which they are appointed, on the direction  
of the Judicial Service Commission. 
 2.4 The other official language proficiency should be acquired according to the secondary level relevant to Court 
Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English)  Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public 
Officers’ Service in accordance with Public Administration Circular 18/2020 and Judicial Service Commission 
Circular 456 issued there to within 03 years after joining the service.    
03. As per Public Administration Circular No. : 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025 the salary scale prescribed to Court Typist 
(Sinhala/Tamil/English)  Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’  
Service is as follows.
 Salary Code – MN 2-2025
 Salary Scale (Monthly) – Rs.48, 470 /- 10 x 540 – 11 x 630 – 10 x 1010 – 10 x 1190 - Rs.82, 800/-
 Applicants recruited to Court Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English)  Grade III will be placed in the initial salary scale of  
Rs. 48, 470 /– and salaries will be paid as per schedule III of Public Administration Circular No. : 10/2025 dated 
25.03.2025
04. This post is permanent and pensionable.  
 Though it has been stated above that the post is pensionable, the Officers that are to be recruited to Grade III of the Court 
Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English)  in future will be subjected to decisions taken by the Government and/or Judicial Service 
Commission in relation to the pension scheme applicable to them.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
975
05. Qualifications:
Following qualifications shall have been completed to be recruited to Court Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English) Grade III 
of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service.
 (a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b)  Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age as at 13.06.2025.
 (c)   Be a person of excellent moral character.
 (d)   Should have fulfilled following educational qualifications.
(I) Shall have passed six (06) subjects including Mathematics with credit passes for four (04) subjects including 
Sinhala, Tamil, English Language at the G.C.E (Ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting
 (Candidates applying for the Court Typist (Sinhala) post should possess a credit pass for Sinhala Language. 
Candidates applying for the Court Typist (Tamil) post should possess a credit pass for Tamil Language. 
Candidates applying for the Court Typist (English) post should possess a credit pass for English Language.)
 and
(II) Should have successfully followed and passed a Typing course or a computer course in which Typing is 
included as a subject at the National Youth Services Council, National Apprentice and Industrial Training 
Authority, Technical College or at a Government Registered Training Institution.
(e) All the applicants recruited to the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service shall have a sound physical and mental 
fitness to serve in any part of the Island and to perform the duties of the post.
N.B. – It is compulsory that every applicant should have fulfilled all the qualifications required for the respective 
post by 13 June 2025 or prior to said date.
06. Scheme of Examination :- 
(a) The examination  consists of three (03) question papers 
Question Paper Total Marks Minimum marks required to pass
01 Language Proficiency 100 40
02 Aptitude 100 40
03 Typing (Sinhala/Tamil/English) 100 *
  
(* Judicial Service Commission may determine the minimum marks required to pass the    subject ‘Typing’ 
taking the number of vacancies into consideration.)
This examination will be held in Sinhala medium and Tamil medium. An applicant  may sit for the examination 
only in one medium as he/she desires.
Applicant should answer the question papers, “Language Proficiency” and “Aptitude” only in the medium he/she 
has applied to sit for the  Examination.
Applicant should select the “Typing” question paper relevant to the post he is applying. This paper is designed 
to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
976
Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
01 Language Proficiency
(Sinhala/Tamil)
The question paper may consist of subject related questions 
designed to test the candidate’s ability of expression, 
comprehension, spellings, language and essay, drafting letters, 
making graphs and tables based on the  given data, summarizing  
passages, expressing the idea  of several  given  sentences in one 
sentence and use of simple grammar.
02 Aptitude
(Sinhala/Tamil)
This paper may consist of subject related questions designed to 
test the candidate’s skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning 
and general intelligence.
03 Typing
(Sinhala/Tamil/English)
Typing (Sinhala)
Typing a passage of 400 words at a speed of 20 words per 
minute.
Typing (Tamil)
Typing a passage of 400 words at a speed of 20 words per 
minute.
Typing (English)
Typing a passage of 600 words at a speed of 30 words per 
minute.
Note :   Illegible handwriting may be penalized. 
 These papers will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions, questions on structured essays, 
essays and /or practical questions. 
07. A number of applicants equal to the number of vacancies allocated for said examination may be appointed following 
descending order, beginning from the highest scorer of marks amongst the applicants who have passed all the subjects 
of the examination after an interview for verification of qualifications. However, the Judicial Service Commission may 
determine not to fill a certain number of vacancies. 
 Results of the Examination -  Results will be issued to the applicants by post by the Secretary, Judicial Service 
Commission.
08. Penalty for furnishing false information :
 Any misstatement or suppression of a fact which is considered material will render the applicant liable to disqualification, 
if such statement or suppression is discovered before the selection and to dismissal or discontinuance if discovered after 
the selection. 
09. Examination fees :
The examination fee is Rs.400/= the receipt obtained by paying said amount to the credit of the account of ‘Secretary, 
Judicial Service Commission’ bearing No. : 297100199025039 at People’s Bank, Dam Street Branch should be 
affixed using one edge of the receipt on the due place of the application so as not to be detached. (A photocopy of the 
receipt should be kept with the applicant for future use) The fee will not be refunded under any circumstances, while 
money orders and stamps will not be accepted in respect of the fee. 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
977
10. Method of Applying - 
 (a) Applications should be prepared in compliance with  the specimen application form annexed to this  notification 
using  both sides of  the paper of size 8 ½" x 12" (A 4)  and it should be completed in  applicant’s own  
handwriting. Computerized /Typed applications can also be used for this purpose.
  Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected 
without any notice. (It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form) It is the 
responsibility of the applicant to make sure that the application form prepared by him/her complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice, as otherwise the application may be rejected.
 (b) Duly completed applications should  be sent  by registered  post to reach the address “Secretary, Judicial Service 
Commission Secretariat, Colombo 12” on or before  18 July 2025.
  The words “Open Competitive  Examination  for the recruitment of Court Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English) 
Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service  -  2025” 
should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the  envelope in which the application is  enclosed. Any 
application received after 18 July 2025 will be rejected. 
 (c) Applicant’s signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, 
a Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, an Attorney at - Law , Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post 
in Staff Grade in the Public Service.
 (d) Applicants who are already in Public Service and who have fulfilled above qualifications should submit their 
applications through their respective Head of the Department. 
 (e) Applications which have not been duly completed in every respect will be rejected. No complaints regarding 
applications lost or delayed in the post will be entertained.
11. Admission to the Examination -
 Receipt of applications will not be notified. Admission cards will be issued to the applicants by post. If the admission 
card is not received, it should be brought to the notice of the Judicial Service Commission Secretariat. When informing, 
the name of the examination applied for, full name of the applicant, address and National Identity Card Number should 
be mentioned. In case of an applicant outside Colombo, a letter of request consisting of above mentioned details and 
a fax number for sending a copy of the admission should be faxed to the fax number 011 2 421 206 or 011 2 446 111 
of Judicial Service Commission Secretariat. Further to that it would be advisable for the candidate to keep a copy of 
application form, copy of the receipt relevant to payment of examination fee and the postal article of posting of the 
application to substantiate any information when requested by the Judicial Service Commission Secretariat.  
12. Identity of Applicants -
 Applicants will be required to prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each 
subject they offer. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this.
a)  National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons;
b)  A valid Passport;
c) A valid Driving License.
13. Sitting for the Examination;
(a) The Secretary of the  Judicial Service Commission  will issue admission cards  to all applicants who have sent 
applications which  are complete in every respect. An applicant who does not present the admission card will 
not be permitted to sit for the examination.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
978
(b) Applicant should appear for the examination at the  centre specified for him/her.  All the applicants should get 
the signature placed in the admission card attested and present it to the head of the examination hall on the first 
day they sit for the examination. Applicants shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Secretary 
of the Judicial Service Commission for the purpose of conducting the examination. If an applicant violates these 
rules, he/she is liable for a punishment imposed by the Secretary of the Judicial Service Commission.
Note : Issuance of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
required qualifications to sit for the examination.
14. Any matter not provided for in these rules will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary of the Judicial Service 
Commission subject to the instructions of the Judicial Service Commission.
15. In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
16. Applicants who have already sent applications for the “Open Competitive  Examination  for the recruitment of 
Court Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled 
Public Officers’ Service  -  2021” based on Gazette notification No: 2223 dated 09.04.2021 do not require to 
forward applications for this examination and there is no observation in reapplying for the examination for 
the applicants who have not fulfilled the qualifications as at 10.05.2021 mentioned in the Gazette notification by 
which date qualifications should be fulfilled.
By order of the Judicial Service Commission
H.S.Somaratne,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
Colombo 12,
06 June 2025.
Specimen Application Form
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
Court Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service 
in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service -  2025
                                             (For office use only.)
01. Medium 
Language medium of examination:
Sinhala  -   1
Tamil    -    2
 (Indicate the correct number in the cage)
02. Typist post applying for
 Sinhala 
 Tamil
 English
 (Indicate the mark √ in the relevant box)

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
979
03. Personal details :
3.1 Name with initials :  Mr. /Mrs. /Miss. ..............................................................    
 (In English block capitals )                    Eg . A.P.K.SIRIWARDANA 
3.2 Name in full:  .............................................................................................................................. 
 (In English block capitals )
3.3 Name in full :  ............................................................................................................................. 
 (In Sinhala / Tamil)
3.4 Personal Address (In Sinhala/Tamil ) :   
 .............................................................................................................................................
3.5 Residing district : .................................................................................................................
3.6 Address to which the admission card should be sent (In English block capitals):   
 .............................................................................................................................................
3.7   National Identity Card Number : 
3.8 Date of birth : 
       Date:      Month:             Year:
3.9 Age as at 13.06.2025:
  Years :   Months :       Days:
 3.10 Gender :    Male - 1     Female – 2
  (Indicate relevant number in the cage)
 3.11 Civil status  :  Married - 1    Unmarried – 2
  (Indicate relevant number in the cage)
 3.12 Contact number : 
 Permanent : .................................Mobile : ................................
Email: .........................................
04. Educational qualifications:
 4.1 Particulars of G.C.E (O/L) Examination:
  (Attach a certified photocopy of the G.C.E (O/L) results sheet)
 (1)  Year and month of the examination : ..............................
 (2)  Index Number : ..............................
(3)  Results :  ..............................
  
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
980
4.2 Particulars of G.C.E (A/L) Examination:
 (1)  Year and month of the examination : ..............................
 (2)  Index Number: ..............................
 (3)  Results: .......................................
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
05. Typing Course followed: ..............................................................................................
 (Attach a certified photocopy of the certificate of the course passed )
06. Other qualifications: ..................................................................................................................................................
 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
07. Have you ever been convicted for any offence by any Court?
 (Indicate the mark ( √ ) in the relevant box) 
 Yes       No 
 
(if yes, give particulars) : …………………………………………………………………………………….
08. Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee: 
 Branch to which the payment was made : ................................
 Number and date of the receipt  : ................................
Amount : ................................
09. Applicant’s certificate:
(a) I solemnly declare that  particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best  of my 
knowledge . I agree to bear any consequence that may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections and/ or 
provision of erroneous information. I also state that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b)  I am aware that if any particulars contained  herein are  found to be false, I am  liable to disqualification before 
appointment  and to dismissal  from service if the inaccuracy is detected  after appointment.
(c)  Further to that, I hereby agree to abide by all the  conditions imposed by the Secretary of the  Judicial Service 
Commission for the purpose of  holding this examination. 
(d )  I shall not change any information mentioned herein subsequently.
          ..........................               ......................................,
 Date             Signature of Applicant.
Affix the receipt firmly here
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the applicant)

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
981
10. Attestation of Applicant’s signature :
 I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………………….…….. who submits this application is known to me 
personally and that he/she placed his /her signature in my presence on …………………….. and further the Applicant 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the Application.
                 ..........................................                                                        ..............................................,
                          Date                                                                     Signature of the Officer                                    
      attesting the signature.
                                                                                                                  
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :.......................................................................
Designation :.......................................................................
Address :.......................................................................
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
Certification of the Head of Department 
(Only for the Applicants who are already in Public Service.)
I hereby recommend that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………………. serving in this ……………… has fulfilled 
educational qualifications required to apply for Court Typist (Sinhala/Tamil/English) Grade III of the Court Management 
Assistants’ Service  in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service, that he/she could be released from the present post 
………………………. if selected for this post, that he/she is not more than 35 years of age by 13.06.2025, that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on …………………………. further the applicant has paid the prescribed 
examination fee and pasted the receipt on the application and that I submit his/her application herewith.
Date :- .................................... Signature of the Head of Department :- ............................
  Official Stamp:- .................................................
06-96
____________________________________
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
  Court Stenographer (English) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service 
in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service -  2025
IN terms of provisions set out in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service Minute published in Gazette Extraordinary bearing 
No.2088/26 dated 11.09.2018, applications are called from Sri Lankan citizens who possess the required qualifications for 
the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment of Court Stenographer (English) Grade III of the Court Management 
Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service – 2025.
It is hereby notified that this examination will be held in Colombo by the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission. The 
Secretary, Judicial Service Commission reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to the instructions 
of the Judicial Service Commission.
02. Conditions of Service :
 2.1 Court Stenographers recruited  subject to the provisions of the Constitution and provisions of the Schedule 
Public Officers' Service Minute, will be subject to the Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, and Circulars, 
Regulations and directions that have been already issued and may be issued by the Commission from time to the 
time. 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
982
 2.2 This appointment is subject to a probation period of three years. The Efficiency Bar Examination should be 
passed before 05 years from the recruitment to Court Stenographer (English) Grade III of the Court Management 
Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service as prescribed in the Service Minute.
 2.3 The Secretary, Judicial Service Commission is vested with the power to cancel the appointments of the  applicants 
who fail to assume duties in the post to which they are  appointed on the due date and/or  applicants who  refuse 
or neglect to assume duties in a  post or in an area into which they are appointed, on the direction  of the Judicial 
Service Commission. 
2.4  The other official language proficiency should be acquired according to the secondary level relevant to Court 
Stenographer (English) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ 
in accordance with Public Administration Circular 18/2020 and Judicial Service Commission Circular 456 issued 
there to within 03 years after joining the service.    
03. As per Public Administration Circular No : 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025 the salary scale prescribed to Court Stenographer 
(English) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers Service in the 
Scheduled Public Officers' Service is as follows:
 Salary Code: MN 2-2025
 Salary Scale (Monthly) : Rs.48, 470 /- 10 x 540 – 11 x 630 – 10 x 1010 – 10 x 1190 - Rs.82, 800
Applicants recruited to Court Stenographer (English) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the 
Scheduled Public Officers’ will be placed in the initial salary scale of Rs. 48, 470 and salaries will be paid as per 
Schedule III of Public Administration Circular No : 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025
04. This post is permanent and pensionable. 
Though it has been stated above that the post is pensionable, the Officers that are to be recruited to Grade III of the 
Court Stenographer (English) in future will be subjected to decisions taken by the Government and/or Judicial Service 
Commission in relation to the Pension Scheme applicable to them.
05. Qualifications:
Following qualifications shall have been completed to be recruited to Court Stenographer (English) Grade III of the 
Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service.
(a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b)  Should be not less than18 years and not more than 35 years of age as at 13.06.2025
(c)   Be a person of excellent moral character.
(d)   Should have fulfilled following educational qualifications:-
(I) Shall have passed six (06) subjects including Mathematics with credit passes for four (04) subjects 
including English Language at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting;
 
 and
(II) Should have successfully followed and passed a Stenography and Typing Course at the National Youth 
Services Council, National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, Technical College or at a 
Government Registered Training Institution. 
(e) All the applicants recruited to the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service shall have a sound physical and mental 
fitness to serve in any part of the Island and to perform the duties of the post.
N.B. – It is compulsory that every applicant should have fulfilled all the qualifications required for the respective 
post by 13 June 2025 or prior to said date.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
983
06. Scheme of examination :- 
(a) The examination  consists of three (03) question papers 
Question Paper Total Marks Minimum marks required to pass
01 Language Proficiency 100 40
02 Aptitude 100 40
03 Stenography and Typing (English) 100 *
   
(* Judicial Service Commission may determine the minimum marks required to pass the    
Subject ‘Stenography and Typing’ taking the number of vacancies into consideration.)
 
This Examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil medium. An applicant  may sit for the examination only in 
one medium as he/she desires.
Applicant should answer the question papers, “Language Proficiency” and “Aptitude” only in the medium he/
she has applied to sit for the  Examination.
Applicant should select the “Stenography and Typing” only in English medium. This paper is designed to test 
the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties.
Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
01 Language Proficiency
(Sinhala/Tamil)
The question paper may consist of subject related questions 
designed to test the candidate’s   ability of expression, 
comprehension, spellings, language and essay, drafting letters, 
making graphs and tables based on the  given data, summarizing  
passages, expressing the idea  of several  given  sentences in one 
sentence and use of simple grammar.
02 Aptitude
(Sinhala/Tamil)
This paper may consist of subject related questions designed to 
test the candidate’s skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning 
and general intelligence.
03 Stenography and Typing
(English)
Stenography (English)
Taking down a passage dictated within 05 minutes at a minimum 
speed of 80 words per minute, and transcribing the notes at a 
speed of 08 words per minute.
Typing (English)
Typing a passage of 600 words at a speed of 30 words per 
minute.
Note :  Illegible handwriting may be penalized. 
 These papers will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions, questions on structured essays, essays 
and /or practical question. 
07. A number of applicants equal to the number of vacancies allocated for said examination may be appointed following 
descending order, beginning from the highest scorer of marks amongst the applicants who have passed all the subjects 
of the examination after an interview for verification of qualifications. However, the Judicial Service Commission may 
determine not to fill a certain number of vacancies. 

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
984
Results of the Examination -  Results will be issued to the applicants by post by the Secretary, Judicial 
Service Commission.
08. Penalty for furnishing false information   -
 Any misstatement or suppression of a fact which is considered material will render the applicant liable to disqualification, 
if such statement or suppression is discovered before the selection and to dismissal or discontinuance if discovered after 
the selection. 
09. Examination fees – 
 The examination fee is Rs.400/= the receipt obtained by paying said amount to the credit of the account of ‘Secretary, 
Judicial Service Commission’ bearing No. No: 297100199025039 at People’s Bank, Dam Street Branch should be 
affixed using one edge of the receipt on the due place of the application so as not to be detached. (A photocopy of the 
receipt should be kept with the applicant for future use) The fee will not be refunded under any circumstances, while 
money orders and stamps will not be accepted in respect of the fee. 
10. Method of applying - 
(a) Applications should be prepared in compliance with  the specimen application form annexed to this  notification 
using  both sides of  the paper of size 8 ½” x 12’’ (A 4)  and it should be completed in  applicant’s own  handwriting. 
Computerized /Typed applications can also be used for this purpose.
 Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected 
without any notice. (It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form) It is the 
responsibility of the applicant to make sure that the application form prepared by him/her complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice, as otherwise the application may be rejected.
 (b) Duly completed applications should  be sent  by registered  post to reach the address “Secretary, Judicial Service 
Commission Secretariat, Colombo 12” on or before 18  July 2025.
 The words “Open Competitive  Examination  for  recruitment to Court Stenographer (English) Grade III 
of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service  -  2025”   should be 
clearly written on the top left hand corner of the  envelope in which the application is  enclosed. Any application 
received after 18 July 2025 will be rejected. 
(c) Applicant’s signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, 
a Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, an Attorney at - Law , Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazette post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in 
Staff Grade in the Public Service.
(d) Applicants who are already in Public service and who have fulfilled above qualifications should submit their 
applications through their respective Head of the Department. 
(e) Applications which have not been duly completed in every respect will be rejected. No complaints regarding 
applications lost or delayed in the post will be entertained.
11. Admission to the examination –
Receipt of applications will not be notified. Admission cards will be issued to the applicants by post. If the admission 
card is not received, it should be brought to the notice of the Judicial Service Commission Secretariat. When informing, 
the name of the examination applied for, full name of the applicant, address and National Identity Card Number should 
be mentioned. In case of an applicant outside Colombo, a letter of request consisting of above mentioned details and 
a fax number for sending a copy of the admission should be faxed to the fax number 011 2 421 206 or 011 2 446 111 
of Judicial Service Commission Secretariat. Further to that it would be advisable for the candidate to keep a copy of 
application form, copy of the receipt relevant to payment of examination fee and the postal article of posting of the 
application to substantiate any information when requested by the Judicial Service Commission Secretariat.  

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
985
12. Identity of applicants –
 Applicants will be required to prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each 
subject they offer. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this.
a)  National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons
b)  A valid Passport
c) A valid Driving License 
13. Sitting for the examination.
(a) The Secretary of the  Judicial Service Commission  will issue admission cards  to all applicants who have sent 
applications which  are complete in every respect. An applicant who does not present the admission card will not 
be permitted to sit for the examination.
(b) Applicant should appear for the examination at the  centre specified for him/her.  All the applicants should get the 
signature placed in the admission card attested and present it to the head of the examination hall on the first day 
they sit for the examination. Applicants shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Secretary of the 
Judicial Service Commission for the purpose of conducting the examination. If an applicant violates these rules, 
he/she is liable for a punishment imposed by the Secretary of the Judicial Service Commission.
Note – Issuance of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the required 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
14. Any matter not provided for in these rules will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary of the Judicial Service 
Commission subject to the instructions of the Judicial Service Commission.
 15. In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
16.  Applicants who have already sent applications for the “Open Competitive  Examination  for the recruitment of 
Court Stenographer (English) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public 
Officers’ Service  -  2022” based on Gazette notification No. 2269 dated 25.02.2022 do not require to forward 
applications for this examination and there is no observation in reapplying for the examination for the applicants 
who have not fulfilled the qualifications as at 25.02.2022 mentioned in the Gazette notification by which date 
qualifications should be fulfilled.
By order of the Judicial Service Commission
H.S.Somaratne,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
Colombo 12,
06th June, 2025.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
986
Specimen Application Form
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
Court Stenographer (English) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service 
in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service -  2025
                                             (For office use only.)
01. Medium :
Language medium of examination:
Sinhala  -   1
Tamil    -    2
 (Indicate the correct number in the cage)
02. Personal details :
2.1 Name with initials :  Mr. /Mrs. /Miss. ..............................................................    
 (In English block Letters )                    eg . A.P.K.SIRIWARDANA , 
2.2 Name in full:  .............................................................................................................................. 
 (In English block Letters )
2.3 Name in full :  ............................................................................................................................. 
 (In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.4 Personal Address (In Sinhala/Tamil ) :   
 .............................................................................................................................................
2.5 Residing district : .................................................................................................................
2.6 Address to which the admission card should be sent (In English block letters):   
 .............................................................................................................................................
2.7   National Identity Card number : 
2.8 Date of birth : 
       Date:      Month:             Year:
2.9 Age as at 13.06.2025:
  Years :   Months :       Days:
 2.10 Gender :    Male - 1     Female – 2
  (Indicate relevant number in the cage)
 2.11 Civil status  :  Married - 1    Unmarried – 2
  (Indicate relevant number in the cage)
 2.12 Contact number : 
 Permanent : .................................Mobile : ................................
Email: .........................................

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
987
03. Educational qualifications:
 3.1 Particulars of G.C.E (O/L) Examination:
  (Attach a certified photocopy of the G.C.E (O/L) result sheet)
 (1)  Year and month of the examination : ..............................
 (2)  Index number : ..............................
(3)  Results : : ..............................
  
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
3.2 Particulars of G.C.E (A/L) Examination:
 (1)  Year and month of the examination : .......................
 (2)  Index number: ..............................
 (3)  Results: .......................................
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
04. Stenography Course followed : ..............................................................................................
 (Attach a certified photocopy of the certificate of the course passed )
05. Other qualifications:  ...............................................................................................................................................
 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
06. Have you ever been convicted for any offence by any Court?
 (Indicate the mark ( √ ) in the relevant box) 
 Yes       No 
 
(if yes, give particulars) …………………………………………………………………………………….
07. Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee: 
 Branch to which the payment was made : ................................
 Number and date of the receipt  : ................................
Amount  : ................................
Affix the receipt firmly here
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the applicant)

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
988
08. Applicant’s certificate:
(a) I solemnly declare that  particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best  of my 
knowledge. I agree to bear any consequence that may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections and/ or 
provision of erroneous information. I also state that all sections herein have been correctly filled. 
(b)  I am aware that if any particulars contained  herein are  found to be false, I am  liable to disqualification before 
appointment  and to dismissal  from service if the inaccuracy is detected  after appointment.
(c)  Further to that, I hereby agree to abide by all the  conditions imposed by the Secretary of the  Judicial Service 
Commission for the purpose of  holding this examination. 
(d )  I shall not change any information mentioned herein subsequently.
          ..........................               ......................................,
 Date             Signature of applicant.
09. Attestation of applicants’ signature :
 I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………………….…….. who submits this application is known to me 
personally and that he/she placed his /her signature in my presence on …………………….. and further the applicant 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the application.
                 ..........................................                                                       ..............................................,
                          Date                                                                         Signature of the Officer                                    
                               attesting the signature.
                                                                                                                  
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :.......................................................................
Designation :.......................................................................
Address :.......................................................................
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
Certification of the Head of Department (Only for the applicants who are already in Public Service.)
I hereby recommend that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………………. serving in this ……………… has fulfilled 
educational qualifications required to apply for Court Stenographer (English) Grade III of the Court Management 
Assistants’ Service  in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service, that he/she could be released from the present post if 
selected for this post, that he/she is not more than 35 years of age by 13.06.2025, that he/she placed his/her signature 
in my presence on …………………………. further the applicant has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted 
the receipt on the application and that I submit his/her application herewith.
09th June 2025 Signature of the Head of Department :-
  Official Stamp:-
06-97

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
989
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS WHICH HA VE FALLEN 
V ACANT IN GRADE III OF SRI LANKA SCIENTIFIC SERVICE - 2025
APPLICATIONS  are called from qualified Sri Lankan citizens for the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to 
95 posts in Grade III of Sri Lanka Scientific Service which remain vacant at ministries/ departments where approved posts 
exist in Sri Lanka Scientific Service.   
The application for this purpose is published in the website www.doenets.lk of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka 
and the applications can strictly be submitted online.  Accepting online applications will commence on Monday, 16 th  of June 
2025 at and end on the 11th  of July 2025 at 21:00 hours.  Applications submitted after that will be rejected.    
01. The examination shall be held in Colombo in the month of September 2025 by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations subjected to the terms made by the Public Service Commission. The examination shall be held island 
wide only in the event of a special situation that may arise in the country. However, in the event that a sufficient number 
of candidates have not applied for a particular examination center, candidates who have expressed their preference for 
the said center will be directed to another examination center. Commissioner General of Examinations has the power 
to postpone or cancel this examination subjected to the terms of the Public Service Commission. 
The “Appointing Authority” mentioned in this notification means the Public Service Commission. 
02. Method of recruitment: On the results of a written examination and a general interview
Candidates who have passed the written examination and satisfied the relevant qualifications will be recruited 
considering the order of marks and preference. The number of candidates to be called for interview for recruitment to 
each post is determined by the Public Service Commission.  
2.1 Indicating the preference: 
An applicant can apply for several posts if he/ she has satisfied the qualifications required for recruitment to each 
post. The applicants should indicate their order of preference for each post when applying.
N.B: Candidates shall not be allowed to change the order of preference indicated in the application at a later 
occasion, when applying for more than one post. Requests claiming to obtain appointments to posts for which the 
applicant has not indicated his/ her preference will not be considered under no circumstance. 
2.2 Written examination: This competitive examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
Question Paper Duration Maximum marks Pass Marks
1. Intelligence Test 01 hour 100 40
2. General Question Paper 03 hours 100 40

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
990
2.2.1 Syllabus :
Name of the Question 
Paper Syllabus
1. Intelligence Test This paper which is designed to test the candidate’s ability of critical reasoning, 
general intelligence and ability of decision making shall consist of 50 questions 
of multiple choice.
2. General Question 
Paper
This is a question paper which aims at testing general knowledge and it shall be 
designed to test the understanding of the candidate on political, social, cultural 
and economic environment of Sri Lanka, matters which are currently important 
in national and international aspects and national and international scientific and 
technical development.  The question paper consists of two parts. Part One consists 
of short questions.  25 marks.  Part Two consists of semi structured questions.  Five 
questions out of Eight should be answered.  75 marks.
2.3 General Interview:  The interview is conducted strictly for verification of qualifications and no marks will be 
allocated. 
 Based on the results of the written examination, candidates who secure 40% or more marks for each question paper 
will be interviewed on the order of marks and candidates who verify their qualifications will be recruited strictly 
for the existing number of vacancies. The number of candidates that should be interviewed will be determined by 
the Public Service Commission and the qualifications of the candidates will be verified by a Board of Interview 
approved by the Public Service Commission.  
2.4 Appointment to each post will be made based on the preference indicated in the application in respect of each post 
and on the order of aggregate of marks of the written examination. When filling vacancies in the order of merit, if, at 
any point, the number of candidates with equal marks exceeds the remaining number of vacancies, Public Service 
Commission may decide to make further selection from those candidates who have secured equal marks, if there is 
a current requirement to fill the vacancies. This selection process is composed of the following.
 I. A written test to assess the ability of the candidates
 II. A competency-based interview.
 The written examination will be conducted by an institute approved by the Public Service Commission
 The Board of Interview will be appointed by the Public Service Commission. Further details on the structure and 
content of this selection process are published in the following webpage of the official website of the Public Service 
Commission www.psc.gov.lk. 
Home Page           Downloads           Procedures             Special Selection Procedure 
2.5 The number of appointments to be made for each post and the effective date of the appointments will be determined 
by the Appointing Authority. Appointments will be made strictly based on the order of marks obtained and the 
preference indicated so as to fill the number of vacancies allocated for the relevant posts. The Appointing Authority 
has the power to fill or not fill all the vacancies in any post or to fill or not fill a certain number of vacancies.
03. Number of vacancies: 95
 Further distribution of the number of vacant posts according to the ministries/departments to which those posts belong 
is given under Educational Qualifications in 6.2.2 of this notification.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
991
04. General conditions of Recruitment: 
4.1. The selected candidates will be appointed to Grade III of the said post subject to the general terms and conditions 
governing the appointments of the public service, provisions in the Scientific Service Minute published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No: 1877/27 dated 28.08.2014, departmental orders as applicable, provisions of the Establishments 
Code and Financial Regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service Commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2310/29 dated 14.12.2022 (hereinafter referred to 
as Procedural Rules), approved recruitment procedures relevant to each post, the revisions that have already been 
made or could be made in future to the directions, conditions, orders, provisions, regulations and rules.  
4.2. This post is permanent.  It is pensionable. Applicant shall be subjected to a policy decision made in future by the 
Government with regard to the pension scheme.  You should contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions 
Scheme/ Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pensions Scheme. You should make the contribution in the manner determined 
by the Government from time to.
4.3. This appointment is subjected to a probation period of three years.  The applicant should pass the first Efficiency 
Bar examination within three years from the date of recruitment to the service as mentioned in the Service Minute. 
4.4. The applicant should acquire the proficiency in the prescribed official language / languages within three years from 
recruitment to the post as per the Public Administration Circular No. 18/2020. 
4.5.  An appointee is liable to serve in any part of the Island in which they are called upon to serve.
4.6. The Appointing Authority reserves the right to cancel the appointments of the applicants who fail to assume duties 
of the post offered to him/her and / or reject or avoid assuming duties of a post or in an area where he/she is 
appointed, on the due date.
05. Salary Structure and monthly Salary Scale: The monthly salary scale relevant to these posts as per Schedule II 
of Public Administration Circular 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025 is Rs. 82,150-10x 2400-8x 2940–17x 3900–195,970/-
(SL–1–2025) and the said salary entitlement will be effective from 01.01.2027. Until then, salaries will be paid as per 
Schedule III of the above circular. In addition, these posts are entitled to the allowances paid to Public Officers by the 
Government from time to time.
06. Qualifications for Recruitment: 
6.1 General Qualifications: 
 i. Shall be a Citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. Shall be of an excellent character.
 iii. Shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform the duties of the post.
 iv. Shall have completed all the qualifications required for recruitment in each and every way, on or before the date 
on which the Notice of Calling Applications is published in the Gazette Notification.
 v.  Shall not be a person who is ordain in any religious order. 
 
6.2 Educational/ Professional Qualifications and age limit: 
6.2.1 Age limit: Shall be not less than twenty two (22) years and not more than thirty five (35) years of age as at 
the date on which the Notice of Calling Applications is published in the Gazette Notification. Accordingly, 
the candidates whose birthday falls on or before 13.06.2003 or on or after 13.06.1990 shall strictly be 
eligible to apply for this.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
992
6.2.2 Educational Qualifications: 
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
01 Department of 
National Botanical 
Gardens 
Assistant Director 05 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours 
Four Years (04) Degree in Agriculture or Botany or 
Plant Science or Plant Biotechnology or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology 
with a class from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours 
Four Years (04) Degree in Botany or Agriculture or 
Plant Science or Plant Biotechnology or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology 
and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields 
of Environmental Science or Forestry or Plant Diversity 
or Biodiversity and Conservation or Horticulture or 
Landscaping or Plant Biotechnology or Agriculture 
or Plant Protection from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.  
or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree 
including Botany or Biology or Agriculture or Plant 
Science or Plant Biotechnology or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology as 
a subject and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one 
of the fields of Environmental Science or Forestry or 
Plant Diversity or Biodiversity and Conservation or 
Horticulture or Landscaping or Plant Biotechnology 
or Agriculture or Plant Protection from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.   

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
993
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
02 Department 
of National 
Zoological 
Gardens 
Assistant Director 02 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Zoology or Biology or Applied 
Biology or Applied Zoology or Animal Husbandry or 
Aquatic Resource Management or Animal Science and 
Fisheries or Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and 
Management or Agricultural Resource Management 
and Technology or Agricultural Sciences and 
Management with a class from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Zoology or Biology or Applied 
Biology or Applied Zoology or Animal Husbandry 
or Aquatic Resource Management or Animal 
Science and Fisheries or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Resource 
Management and Technology or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management and a Post Graduate Degree relevant 
to one of the fields of Zoology or Biology or Applied 
Biology or Applied Zoology or Animal Husbandry 
or Aquatic Resource Management or Animal 
Science and Fisheries or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Resource 
Management and Technology or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.  
or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree 
including Zoology or Biology or Applied Biology or 
Applied Zoology or Animal Husbandry or Aquatic 
Resource Management or Animal Science and Fisheries 
as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to 
one of the fields of Zoology or Biology or Applied 
Biology or Applied Zoology or Animal Husbandry 
or Aquatic Resource Management or Animal 
Science and Fisheries or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Resource 
Management and Technology or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.   

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
994
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
03 Department of 
Measurement 
Units, Standards 
and Services
Assistant Director 
of Measurement 
Units, Standards 
and Services
06 Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Physics or Computational Physics 
or Engineering Physics from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution. 
04 Department of 
Meteorology 
Meteorologist 06 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Physics or Mathematics from 
a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.    
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree 
including Physics or Mathematics as a subject with a 
Second Class or above from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.    
or
(c) Shall have obtained a Bsc. General Degree including 
Physics or Mathematics as a subject and a Post 
Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields of Physics 
or Mathematics or Computer Science from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.       
05 Department 
of Forest 
Conservation
Assistant 
Conservator of 
Forests 
(Forest 
Management)
05 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) ZDegree in Botany or Plant Sciences or Plant 
Biotechnology or Plant Biology or Applied Botany 
or Applied Biology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Resource 
Management and Technology or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Environmental Science and Natural 
Resource Management or Environmental Management 
and Forestry with a class from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
or  
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours 
Four Years (04) Degree in Botany or Plant Sciences 
or Plant Biotechnology or Plant Biology or 
Applied Botany or Applied Biology or Agriculture 
or Agricultural Technology and Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology  
or Agricultural Sciences and Management or

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
995
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
06 Assistant 
Conservator of 
Forests(Research)
01 Environmental Science and Natural Resource 
Management or Environmental Management and 
Forestry and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one 
of the fields of Botany or Plant Sciences or Plant 
Biotechnology or Plant Biology or Applied Botany 
or Applied Biology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Resource 
Management and Technology or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Environmental Science and 
Natural Resource Management or Environmental 
Management and Forestry from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution. 
or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Botany or Plant Sciences or Plant Biotechnology or 
Plant Biology or Applied Botany or Applied Biology 
or Environmental Science and Natural Resource 
Management or Environmental Management and 
Forestry as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree relevant 
to one of the fields of Botany or Plant Sciences or Plant 
Biotechnology or Plant Biology or Applied Botany 
or Applied Biology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Resource 
Management and Technology or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Environmental Science and 
Natural Resource Management or Environmental 
Management and Forestry from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
07 Assistant 
Conservator 
of Forest 
(Education)
02
08 Ministry of Health 
and Mass Media 
Chemist 01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Chemistry from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree with 
a Class including Chemistry as a subject and a Post 
Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields of 
Food Science and Technology or Food Production 
and Technology Management or Food Science and 
Production or Analytical Chemistry from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.  

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
996
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
09 Entomologist 06 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Zoology or Applied Zoology or 
Biology from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree with 
a Class including Zoology as a subject and a Post 
Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields of 
Zoology or Entomology from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.  
10 Scientific Officer 01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Chemistry or Biochemistry or 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree with 
a Class including Chemistry or Biochemistry or 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology as a subject and 
a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields 
of Chemistry or Biochemistry or Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology with a from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.  
11 Physicist 01 Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Physics or Engineering Physics 
or Computational Physics or Mathematical Physics 
or Applied Physics with a Class from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
12 Biochemist 01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Chemistry or Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology or Biochemistry from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
or

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
997
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree with 
a Class including Chemistry or Biochemistry or 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology as a subject 
and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the 
fields of Analytical Chemistry or Biochemistry or 
Clinical Biochemistry from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
13 Research Officer 
(Vaccines and 
Products)
01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Immunology and Microbiology 
or Botany or Plant Science or Plant Biotechnology or 
Immunology and Integrative Molecular Biology or 
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology or Zoology or 
Molecular Biology and Biochemistry from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution. 
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree with 
a Class including Immunology or Microbiology and 
Botany or Plant Science or Plant Biotechnology or 
Immunology and Integrative Molecular Biology or 
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology or Zoology 
as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to 
one of the fields of Immunology and Microbiology 
or Botany or Plant Science or Plant Biotechnology 
or Immunology and Integrative Molecular Biology or 
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology or Zoology or 
Molecular Biology and Biochemisty from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
14 Research Officer 
(Biochemistry)
02 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Biochemistry or Chemistry or 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree with 
a Class including Biochemistry or Chemistry or 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology as a subject and 
a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields 
of Chemistry or Biochemistry and Molecular Biology 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.  

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
998
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
15 Research Officer 
(Molecular 
Biology)
04 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours 
Four Years (04) Degree in Molecular Biology and 
Biochemistry or Molecular Biology and Biotechnology 
or Microbiology or Botany or Plant Science or Plant 
Biotechnology or Bioinformatics from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution;
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree with 
a Class including Molecular Biology or Chemistry or 
Biotechnology or Biochemistry or Microbiology or 
Botany or Plant Science or Plant Biotechnology or 
Bioinformatics as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree 
relevant to one of the fields of Molecular Biology 
or Chemistry or Biotechnology or Biochemistry or 
Microbiology or Botany or Plant Science or Plant 
Biotechnology or Bioinformatics from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.  
16 Research Officer 
(Bacteriology & 
Virology)
02 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Microbiology or Botany or Plant 
Science or Plant Biotechnology or Molecular Biology 
or Molecular Biology and Biotechnology or Molecular 
Biology and Biochemistry from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution;
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree 
with a Class including Microbiology or Botany or 
Plant Science or Plant Biotechnology or Molecular 
Biology or Molecular Biology and Biotechnology or 
Molecular Biology and Biochemistry as a subject and 
a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields 
of Microbiology or Botany or Plant Science or Plant 
Biotechnology or Molecular Biology or Molecular 
Biology and Biotechnology or Molecular Biology 
and Biochemistry from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution. 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
999
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
17 Department of 
Government 
Analyst
Assistant
Government 
Analyst
16 Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four Years 
(04) Degree in Chemistry with a Class from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
 
18 Assistant 
Government 
Examiner of 
Questioned 
Documents 
04 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Chemistry or Physics with a 
Class from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution;  
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Chemistry or Physics as a subject with a Post Graduate 
Degree relevant to one of the fields of Chemistry or 
Physics from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution; 
or
(c) Shall have passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination 
in Biological or Physical Science stream and have 
obtained a Special Four Years (04) Degree with a Class 
in Computer Science or Information Technology; 
 or
(d) Shall have passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination 
in Biological or Physical Science stream and have 
obtained a General Degree including Computer 
Science or Information Technology as a subject and a 
Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields of 
Computer Science or Information Technology. 
 
19 Department of 
Labour
Research Officer 01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Chemistry with a Class from 
a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution;
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Chemistry and a Post Graduate 
Degree relevant to one of the fields of Industrial 
Chemistry or Occupational Hygiene or Environmental 
Science or Toxicology or Polymer Science and Industrial 
Chemistry or Industrial and Environmental Chemistry

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1000
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
or Industrial Analytical Chemistry or Industrial 
Organic Chemistry or Occupational Health and Safety 
or Polymer Science and Technology or Analytical 
Chemistry or Applied Industrial Organic Chemistry 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution;  
 or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Chemistry as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree 
relevant to one of the fields of Industrial Chemistry 
or Occupational Hygiene or Environmental Science 
or Toxicology or Polymer Science and Industrial 
Chemistry or Industrial and Environmental Chemistry 
or Industrial Analytical Chemistry or Industrial 
Organic Chemistry or Occupational Health and Safety 
or Polymer Science and Technology or Analytical 
Chemistry or A pplied Industrial Organic Chemistry 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.   
20 Department of 
Export Agriculture
Assistant Director 
(Development)
02 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Botany or Biology or Plant 
Science or Plant Biology or Plant Biotechnology 
or Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and 
Management or Agricultural Sciences and Management 
or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology 
with a class from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution;
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Botany or Biology or Plant 
Science or Plant Biology or Plant Biotechnology 
or Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and 
Management or Agricultural Sciences and Management 
or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology 
and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields 
of Botany or Biology or Plant Science or Plant Biology 
or Plant Biotechnology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness 
Management or Agricultural Resource Management and 
Technology or Biometry fr om a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution;

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1001
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
or Industrial Analytical Chemistry or Industrial 
Organic Chemistry or Occupational Health and Safety 
or Polymer Science and Technology or Analytical 
Chemistry or Applied Industrial Organic Chemistry 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution;  
 or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Chemistry as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree 
relevant to one of the fields of Industrial Chemistry 
or Occupational Hygiene or Environmental Science 
or Toxicology or Polymer Science and Industrial 
Chemistry or Industrial and Environmental Chemistry 
or Industrial Analytical Chemistry or Industrial 
Organic Chemistry or Occupational Health and Safety 
or Polymer Science and Technology or Analytical 
Chemistry or Applied Industrial Organic Chemistry 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.   
20 Department of 
Export Agriculture
Assistant Director 
(Development)
02 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Botany or Biology or Plant 
Science or Plant Biology or Plant Biotechnology 
or Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and 
Management or Agricultural Sciences and Management 
or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology 
with a class from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution;
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Botany or Biology or Plant 
Science or Plant Biology or Plant Biotechnology 
or Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and 
Management or Agricultural Sciences and Management 
or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology 
and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields 
of Botany or Biology or Plant Science or Plant Biology 
or Plant Biotechnology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness 
Management or Agricultural Resource Management and 
Technology or Biometry from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution;
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Botany or Biology or Plant Science or Plant Biology 
or Plant Biotechnology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural 
Sciences and Management or Export Agriculture or 
Agribusiness Management or Agricultural Resource 
Management and Technology as a subject and a 
Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields of 
Botany or Biology or Plant Science or Plant Biology 
or Plant Biotechnology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness 
Management or Agricultural Resource Management and 
Technology or Biometry from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
21 Department of 
Export Agriculture
Assistant Director 
(Research)
09 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Botany or Biology or Plant 
Science or Plant Biology or Plant Biotechnology 
or Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and 
Management or Agricultural Sciences and Management 
or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology 
with a class from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution;
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Botany or Biology or Plant 
Science or Plant Biology or Plant Biotechnology 
or Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and 
Management or Agricultural Science and Management 
or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology 
and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields 
of Botany or Biology or Plant Science or Plant Biology 
or Plant Biotechnology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness 
Management or Agricultural Resource Management and 
Technology or Biometry from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1002
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Botany or Biology or Plant Science or Plant Biology 
or Plant Biotechnology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural 
Sciences and Management or Export Agriculture or 
Agribusiness Management or Agricultural Resource 
Management and Technology as a subject and a 
Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of the fields of 
Botany or Biology or Plant Science or Plant Biology 
or Plant Biotechnology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Export Agriculture or Agribusiness 
Management or Agricultural Resource Management and 
Technology or Biometry from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
22 Department of 
National Museums 
Assistant Director 
(Ethnology)
01 Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree or higher degree in Archeology or 
History with a Class from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution. 
23 Assistant Director 
(Anthropology)
01 Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree or higher degree in Anthropology or 
Sociology with a Class from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.   
24 Assistant Director 
(Entomology) 
01 Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four Years 
(04) Degree in Zoology or Applied Zoology or Biology 
or Environmental Sciences or Applied Sciences 
or Environmental Science and Natural Resource 
Management or Environmental Conservation and 
Management or Molecular Biology and Biotechnology 
or Applied Biology with a Class from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1003
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
25 Department 
of Wildlife 
Conservation
Assistant Director 05 ( a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four Years 
(04) Degree in Botany or Zoology or Plant Biotechnology or 
Plant biology or Plant Science or Biology or Applied Biology 
or Environmental Sciences or Natural Resource Management 
or Forestry or Environmental Conservation and Management 
or Forestry and Environmental Management or Molecular 
Biology and Biotechnology or Animal Science and Fisheries 
or Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and Management 
or Agricultural Resource Management and Technology or 
Agricultural Sciences and Management with a Class from a 
university recognized by the University Grants Commission 
or  an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four Years 
(04) Degree in Botany or Zoology or Plant Biotechnology or 
Plant biology or Plant Science or Biology or Applied Biology 
or Environmental Sciences or Agriculture or Natural Resource 
Management or Forestry or Environmental Conservation and 
Management or Forestry and Environmental Management 
or Molecular Biology and Biotechnology or Animal Science 
and Fisheries or Agricultural Technology and Management 
or Agricultural Resource Management and Technology or 
Agricultural Sciences and Management and a  Post Graduate 
Degree relevant to one of the fields of Wildlife Conservation or 
Wildlife Management or Forestry or Environmental Sciences 
or Botany or Zoology or Plant Biotechnology or Plant Biology 
or Plant Sciences or Biology or Applied Biology or Natural 
Resource Management or Environmental Conservation and 
Management or Forestry and Environmental Management 
or Molecular Biology and Biotechnology or Animal Science 
and Fisheries or Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and 
Management or Agricultural Resource Management and 
Technology or Agricultural Sciences and Management from 
a university recognized by the University Grants Commission 
or an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Botany or Zoology or Plant Biotechnology or Plant 
biology or Plant Science or Biology or Applied Biology or 
Environmental Sciences or Natural Resource Management 
or Forestry or Environmental Conservation and Management 
or Forestry and Environmental Management or Molecular 
Biology and Biotechnology or Animal Science and Fisheries 
as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to one of 
the fields of Wildlife Conservation or Wildlife Management 
or Forestry or Environmental Sciences or Botany or Zoology 
or Plant Biotechnology or Plant Biology or Plant Sciences or 
Biology or Applied Biology or Natural Resource Management 
or Environmental Conservation and Management or Forestry 
and Environmental Management or Molecular Biology 
and Biotechnology or Animal Science and Fisheries or 
Agriculture or Agricultural Technology and Management 
or Agricultural Resource Management and Technology or 
Agricultural Sciences and Management from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or an 
institution recognized by the University Grants Commission 
as a degree awarding institution.

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1004
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
26 Department of 
Textile Industry
Textile 
Technologist
01 (a) Shall have obtained an Engineering Special Four 
Years (04) Degree in Textile Technology with a Class 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or  an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a B. Design Special Four 
Years (04) Degree in Fashion Design with a Class 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.
or
(c) Shall have gained experience of three years in a 
post at Executive level in the field with a BSc. Special 
Four Years (04) Degree in Physics with a Class from 
a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution. 
or
(d) Shall have obtained a Post Graduate Degree relevant 
to one of the fields of Textile Technology or Designing 
or Industry Management with a BSc. General Degree or 
Special Degree in Physics from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.   
27 Department 
of National 
Community Water 
Supply 
Geologist 01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special Four Years 
(04) Degree in Geology a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree in 
Geology and a Post Graduate Degree relevant to the 
said field from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.  

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1005
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
28 Department of 
Animal Production 
and Health
Chemist 01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special Four Years (04) 
Degree in Chemistry with a Class from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Degree in Chemistry and 
a Post Graduate Degree from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution. 
or
(c) Shall have obtained a Bsc. General Degree 
including Chemistry as a subject or Bsc. Special Four 
Years (04) Degree in Chemistry and a Post Graduate 
Degree from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.
29 Department 
of Indigenous 
Medicine  
Scientific Officer 
(Agri)
01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Degree in Agricultural 
Sciences with a Class from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a Bsc. Degree including 
Agricultural Sciences as a subject and a Post Graduate 
Degree relevant to the field from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution. 
or
(c) Shall have obtained a Bsc. General Degree 
including Botany or Forestry as a subject and a Post 
Graduate Degree relevant to the field from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.  
30 Scientific Officer 
(Chemical)
01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special Four Years (04) 
Degree in Chemistry with a Class from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
or

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1006
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Chemistry as a subject with a Class from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution. 
or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Chemistry as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree 
relevant to the field from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
31 Scientific 
Officer (Drug 
Modification)
01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Pharmacy or Chemistry with a 
Class from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Pharmacy or Chemistry and a 
Post Graduate Degree from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution. 
or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Chemistry as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree 
relevant to the field from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.  
32 Department of 
Irrigation
Assistant Soil 
Chemist
01 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special/ Honours Four 
Years (04) Degree in Chemistry or Applied Chemistry 
or Chemical Technology or Agriculture or Agricultural 
Technology and Management or Agricultural Sciences 
and Management or Agribusiness Management or 
Agricultural Resource Management and Technology 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.
or

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1007
Serial 
No.
Ministry/ 
Department
Post Number of 
Vacancies
Educational Qualifications
(b)  Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree 
including Chemistry as a subject and a Post Graduate 
Degree relevant to one of the fields of Analytical 
Chemistry or Agricultural Engineering or Soil Science 
or Agricultural Technology and Management or 
Agribusiness Management or Agricultural Resource 
Management and Technology from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
33 Ministry of 
Science and 
Technology
Assistant Director 02 (a) Shall have obtained a BSc. Special Four Years (04) 
Degree in Chemistry or Physics or Biology or Zoology 
or Biological Science with a Class from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or 
an institution recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as a degree awarding institution.
or
(b) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree 
including Chemistry as a subject and a Post Graduate 
Degree in Chemistry from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution.
or
(c) Shall have obtained a BSc. General Degree including 
Physics as a subject and a Post Graduate Degree in 
Physics from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree awarding 
institution.
7.  Examination Conditions: 
7.1 Examination shall be conducted strictly in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. Candidates can sit the examination 
in any one of these languages of their choice. Candidates should answer all question papers relevant to all the posts 
they apply for and select only one medium of language for all the papers. Candidates will not be allowed to change 
the medium of examination produced by them in the application form.
7.2  Online applications should be perfected in English medium only. The candidates will be notified that the soft 
copy submitted online is accepted/not accepted as a valid application by the department through SMS sent to 
the mobile number used to access the system or by an email sent to the e-mail address.  Download the common 
instructions sheet prepared for applying for the examination before perfecting the online application.‍ Strictly follow 
these instructions when perfecting the application. A printed copy of the application submitted online should be 
obtained and kept with the applicant after getting his/ her signature attested and the applicants in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service/ serving at State Corporations should get the certification of the Head of the Institution 
as required.  The certified printed copy should be submitted at the interview.  Requests made at later occasions to 
obtain a printed copy of the application shall not be considered.  

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1008
7.3 Fee for this examination is Rs. 1200/=. Payment of examination fees should be made strictly using the following 
methods provided by the online system.
 i. Through any Bank Credit Card
 ii. Any Bank Debit Card with the facility of internet transaction 
 iii. Online Banking method of bank of Ceylon 
 iv. Any Branch of the bank of Ceylon 
     Note: The instructions on payment through the above methods are published under the technical instructions 
related to the examination in the website www.doenets.lk.‍ The receipt of payment shall be acknowledged 
through SMS or e-mail.‍ The due examination fee should be paid and applications of the candidates, who 
have made payments more or less than the prescribed examination fee, shall be rejected.‍ Department of 
Examinations shall not bear ‍responsibility on the errors that occur when paying the examination fees 
through the above methods.‍ Under no circumstances the examination fee shall be refunded or allowed 
to be transferred in favor of another. 
7.4  The signature of the applicant in the printed copy of the application kept with the applicant and the admission 
card should have been attested.  An applicant who is in Public Service/ Provincial Public Service/ serving at State 
Cooperations should get his/ her signature attested by the Head of the Institution or by any other officer authorized 
by him and other applicants should get their signature attested by a Head of a Government School/ Retired Officer, 
Grama Niladhari of the relevant division, Justice of the Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary 
Public, Commissioned Officer in the three armed forces, a permanent officer in the Staff Grade of the Public Service 
or Provincial Public Service or Chief Incumbent of a temple or a person holding a responsible status in other 
religious place and in charge thereof.
7.5  The Commissioner General of Examinations shall issue admission cards to the applicants, who are within the age 
limit prescribed in the notification and have paid the prescribed examination fees and submitted the duly completed 
applications online on or before the closing date of applications, on the presumption that only those who have the 
qualifications mentioned in the examination notice have applied. Immediately after the issuance of admission cards 
to the candidates, a notice thereon will be published in the official website of the Department of Examinations and 
the applicant will be notified on the same through SMS. If the admission card is not received, steps shall be taken 
to notify the Institutional Examination Organization Branch of the Department of Examinations in the manner 
specified in the advertisement. The name of the examination, full name and address of the applicant should be 
clearly mentioned when making an inquiry in the said manner. It would be more effective to send a letter of request 
to the fax number mentioned in the notification furnishing a fax number to which a copy of the admission card can 
be obtained without delay in case of applicants outside Colombo. It would be advisable to keep the following in 
hand to prove any matter inquired by the Department of Examinations: i.e. A printed copy of the application and 
the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee kept at your possession.
Note: No candidate is allowed to enter the examination hall without the admission card.  Only an admission card in 
which the signature of the candidate is attested should be presented to the supervisor on the date of commencement 
of the examination. The issuance of an admission card to a candidate shall not be treated as an acceptance that he/
she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the examination or for a post.
7.6 Candidates are subjected to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the examination and issuing the results. He or she shall be liable to be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in case of violation of these rule  and regulations

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2025
1009
7.7 Candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject they offer. ‍ For this purpose, any of the following documents shall be accepted:-
 i. National Identity Card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan Driving License
Candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face so that their identity can be confirmed and 
without covering their ears to be able to verify that they are not wearing electronic communication devices. Those 
who refuse to verify their identity as such shall not be permitted to enter the examination hall. Further, candidates 
should remain in the examination hall from the moment of entering and leaving the examination hall without 
covering the face and ears. 
08.  Penalty for furnishing false Information: 
If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/ her candidature is liable to be canceled at any stage prior to, during or after 
the examination. If it is revealed after the appointment that any false information has been furnished by a candidate 
with his/ her knowledge or if he/ she has willfully suppressed an important fact, his/ her appointment will be canceled 
and all sums of money already paid to him/ her under this appointment as salaries and allowances by the Government/ 
Provincial Council will be recovered.
09. Medium of examination: 
 i. Examination shall be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. 
 ii. The medium in which the candidate sit for the examination will be treated as the medium of appointment.
 iii. Candidates should answer all question papers in one medium of language.
 iv. Candidates will not be allowed to change the medium of examination mentioned in the application.
10. The Appointing Authority reserves the right to make decisions on the matters not provided for in this notice.
11. In case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
On the order of Public Service Commission, 
09th June 2025  S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and
 Local Government.
06-98   
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.