

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2127$15 - 2019 cqks ui 12 jeks nodod - 2019'06'12
No. 2127/15  - WEDNESDAY,  JUNE  12,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A-  PG  4562—517 (06/2019)
GAZETTING   OF   THE   UPDATED   NATIONAL   PHYSICAL   PLANNING   POLICY   AND   THE    PLAN -
2050   APPROVED   BY   THE   NATIONAL   PHYSICAL   PLANNING   COUNCIL
I, Patali Champika Ranawaka, Minister of Megapolis and Western Development, do hereby publish, the Updated National
Physical Planning Policy and Plan - 2050, prepared under the Section 5(a) and (b) of the Town and Country Planning
(Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 2000, and approved by the National Physical Planning Council  as per Section 3 (4a) of the
Act on 26.02.2019, for the information of the general public.
P
A TALI C HAMPIKA  R ANAWAKA,
Minister of Megapolis and Western Development.
Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development,
Suhurupaya,
Battaramulla,
01st June 2019.
Updated National Physical Planning Policy and Plan  - 2050
BASED  ON  THE   NATIONAL   PHYSICAL   PLANNING   POLICY   AND   PLAN - 2030   APPROVED   ON
03.07.2007 AND  09.11.2011
This document was prepared in accordance with Sections 5A(b) of the Town and Country Planning (Amendment)
Act,  No. 49 of 2000, under powers vested with Director General of National Physical Planning Department, as per

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Section 4B(c) of the Act ; the plan was recommended by the Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee on 07.09.2017
and approved by the National Physical Planning Council chaired by His Excellency the President on 26.02.2019 as per
Section 3(4a) of the Act.
Dr. J
AGA TH MUNASINGHE,
Director General.
National Physical Planning Department,
5th Floor,
Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla.
THE   NATIONAL   PHYSICAL   PLANNING   POLICY   AND   THE   PLAN - 2050
1.0 The Vision and Goals
1.1 Background
The team engaged in the updating of the National Physical Planning Policy has followed the process set
out by the Town & Country Planning Ordinance No.13 of 1946, Amended by Act No.49 of 2000. The
process was also complimented with a series of studies and consultations of the experts, development
agencies, stakeholders and interest groups.
1.2 Time Horizons
The Plan has been prepared for three time horizons which can be stated in the following manner:
1. Short term horizon: Five-year period (2020-25), whose state of affairs are mostly foreseeable to the
planning team. The current development trends, the policies adopted by the present government
and the likely outcomes of them,  and the development  projects that are already in progress and
likely to have a major impact on the physical and social environment of the island are the key
factors considered in planning for this horizon.
2. Medium term horizon: Ten to fifteen-year period (2030-35), the situation of which can be foreseen
with some level of certainty by the planning team. The improving quality of life and the social
status, the changing state of political affairs both locally and globally, and the fast evolving
technology that changes the entire development scenario of the country and the likely consequences
of such changes, are the considerations for this horizon.
3. Long term horizon: Twenty-five to thirty-year period (2050), the state of which is mostly beyond
the sight of the present day planning thoughts. Yet the core values those need to be preserved,
expectations those will remain unchanged and the objectives those need to be achieved at any
cost are the considerations for the proposals at this phase.
1.3 The Vision Statement
The Time
Horizons
The Vision
iqks; iqn, iqyqre oehla
iqieÈ iq/ls fid÷re ìula
Neh;j;jpahd  tsk; nghUe;jpa jpwd;kpF ehl;bw;fhd
epiyahd jd;dpfuw;w jpl;lkplg;gl;l Njrk; 
Mannered, Geared and Smart Nation
in a Planned, Sustained and Adored Land

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
1. Planned (a Built Environment that will facilitate an uncompromised growth in the economy,
continuous improvements to social well-being, and the optimum utility of the physical, social,
economic and environmental resources)
2. Sustained (a Development that will ensure the prolonged use of the land, ocean, water, human,
wildlife and other resources of the island)
3. Adored   (a  Landscape   whose   unique   physical  characteristics  and  the   socio-cultural
manifestations are retained amidst new developments)
4. Mannered (Providing the ambiance appropriate for Peace and Harmony among people)
5. Geared (Providing opportunities for improved Health, Wealth (Employment,)
Knowledge(Education), Skills (Training) and Power (Equity))
6. Smart (Pave the way for innovative, progressive and embraced State-of-the Art Technology
and good practices).
1.4 The Broad Objective
The overall objective of the proposed plan is to provide the Government of Sri Lanka with a guide to
develop a physical environment that will facilitate Sri Lanka to become a smart nation and a competitive
economy of the world within the next decade and remain thereafter; ensuring the optimum and sustainable
use of the available assets and infrastructure, unexplored resources and the potentials of its land and
ocean space; exploiting the opportunities provided by the ongoing economic, political and technological
advances around the globe; and harnessing the potentials attributed by its strategic geographic location
in the Indian Ocean.
1.5 Goals
1.5.1 Short Term Goals (2020-25)
These goals need to be accomplished within the forthcoming five-year period, in order to facilitate
the achievement of the medium and long term goals.
a. Spatial structure , which consists of accommodative land uses, harmoniously integrated with
the natural geographic settings and an attuned distribution of human settlements with a hierarchy
of service centers, connected through a widely spread road, rail and other infrastructure, etc, to
facilitate an unhindered growth in the economy, by means of convenience, efficiency and
safety for business and employment.
b. Development directives for an integrated and well-coordinated physical development projects
and programs to promote the optimum utility and the efficient use of the available land and
other physical resources, infrastructure, and human resources; and pay high regard towards the
unique landscape of the island.
c. Regulatory framework for all physical developments throughout the island to ensures the
sustainable use of the land, water, and other resources, natural eco-systems, cultural landscapes
and traditions of the inhabitants.
1.5.2 Medium Term Goals (2025-30)
These goals can have a longer range and expected to be fully accomplished within the next ten
-year period.
a. Spaces that facilitate the smooth transformation of the national economy from its orientation
in conventional agriculture, plantation and traditional industries, towards high-tech, knowledge
and innovation based industries and increased international trade.
The Board
objective of the
Policy

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
b. Development initiatives that will promote the timely exploration of new  opportunities and
untapped resources in land, ocean locations and in inhabitants.
c. Physical environments and supportive physical, social and economic infrastructure that will
increase the attraction of investments and trade.
1.5.3 Long Term Goals (2050)
These goals can be regarded as all-time goals whose validity remains from today to a period even
beyond the horizons of this Plan.
a. Sustainable Use of land, water, ocean and other resources of the Island, preserving
agriculture, unique indigenous industries, cultural landscapes and the practices.
b. Responsiveness to the effects of climate change and natural hazards
c. Balanced development across the Island that will provide for equity, equal opportunities and
accessibility to resources for all.
1.6 Guiding Policies
In order to accomplish the above goals in the desired development scenarios, and based on  the findings
of the background studies carried out on the existing and the foreseeable future situations, the following
guiding policies have been formulated and the National Physical Plan 2050 has been prepared based on
these policies.
1.6.1 Conservation of the ‘Critical’ and the ‘Unique’
As an economical means of providing necessary supportive systems demanded by future physical
developments throughout the island, Sri Lanka can depend largely on its natural eco systems, water
resources and unique landscapes. Provision of alternative engineering  solutions will add heavy costs
for such developments. Therefore, the strategic conservation and improvement of the existing
environmental systems and physical settings is crucial for a physically as well as economically sustainable
development.
At the same time, the upcoming and predicted effects of the climate change as well as the unforeseen
disaster situations caused by human activities pose severe constraints for both economic and physical
development of Sri Lanka unless necessary precautionary measures  will be adopted at the earliest.
Some critical environments such as the coastal areas and the fragile central hills are highly sensitive in
this regard.
In yet another face, many of the unique and attractive landscapes of the island are the bases of the
economy of such places and act as the icons of the culture and the traditions of the nation. They are
increasingly subject to degradation due to neglect, over exploitation and vandalizing. The protections of
the essences of such settings are important for a sustainable economic and socio-cultural development.
Thus, the mandatory conservation of the critical ecosystems, fragile areas and the unique landscapes are
proposed as a guiding policy for the planning of future physical developments in Sri Lanka. Similarly,
cultural landscapes too should be considered as a mandatory requirement for conservation.
The areas those need attention in this regard are given in Figure 1.1
General Policies
Areas for
Conservation

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
1.6.2 Promotion of the ‘Livability’ for Human
The long sustained development of a country can be expected only with a healthy nation, who enjoys a
high quality of life associated with many indicators as set out by the United Nations. The quality of the
physical environment that promotes ‘livability’ is an important factor in this regard.
Figure 1.1: The Conservation Space (Areas need to be conserved due to sensitivity)
Areas appropriate
for human
habitation


<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
A livable physical environment can be achieved through several means, but the available geographic and
weather conditions contribute towards most economic ways towards such. Out of many conditions
conducive for human habitats, the atmospheric temperature,  humidity levels, rainfall and the lands free
from natural disasters and wild animal attacks can be considered as the most critical. The convenient
access to land and water along with readily available physical infrastructure such as roads, transportation
facilities, etc., and the social infrastructure such as schools and hospitals are also regarded as conditions
necessary for livability.
The livable physical environment is also meant to include the cohabitation with the natural  (Flora and
Fauna) which is included in consideration of cultural traits of the people.
Selection of the areas those encompass the above conditions of livability for future human settlement
development is proposed as a policy for the planning of future physical developments in Sri Lanka.
The areas graded for suitability for human habitats is given in Figure 1.2
1.6.3 Exploration of the ‘Potentials’, ‘Opportunities’ and the ‘Enhancement’ of the Use
It is clear that, most of the potential resources in Sri Lanka have yet to be tapped for their full strength.
One such resource is the ocean space declared as Exclusive Economic Zone that extends to more than
250,000 square kilometers into Indian Ocean. Except for fishing and a few minerals the rest of the
resources embodied in it remain intact. There are many other resources associated with the ocean space
such as the winds, ocean waves, likely petroleum and gas deposits, etc. those have not been adequately
explored yet. The inland locations which have high potentials to attract tourists need to be promoted in
a planned manner. Other than  the popularly visited locations a vast variety of spaces still remain little
known to many.
Human Resource, specially the youth in the labour force, with various skills and education  levels is
another resource that Sri Lanka shall consider for a sustainable development. According to demographers,
if not put into effective use within the period that it yields ‘population dividend’ Sri Lanka will miss
another opportunity to gain the competitive advantage that it possesses in the region. Future developments
shall be supportive of such explorations.
The ever advancing technological innovations have to be incorporated to be in par with the international
competitors.
In this context, in the planning of future physical developments, providing maximum opportunities for
the exploration and the enhancement of potentials and untapped resources is proposed as a policy.
The areas those can be of potential in this regard are given in Figure 1.3
1.6.4 Optimization of the Utility of the ‘Available’
According to the available information, owing to the debt servicing requirements and the immediate
improvements required in priority sectors within ten years, Sri Lanka will have to  lead its future
development with many constraints. Heavy investments on large scale infrastructure may not be healthy,
unless there are compelling reasons.
In addition to such constraints, the UN Sustainable Development Goals envisages the sustainable use of
infrastructure and natural resources.
Areas with
potentials
Areas with best
utility of available
resources

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 1.2: The Livable Space (The areas with environments conducive for living)


<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure  1.3: The The Explorative Space (Areas those provide opportunities to explore and
enhance)


<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
In that context, the best use of the available resources and the existing physical and social infrastructure, rather than
investing on new infrastructure with an additional burden on the economy, and prioritization of the development needs,
have become necessities.
However, future investments shall be directed more towards improving the quality of what is available by means of making
them more productive, efficient and state of the art, rather than increasing the quantity, unless there is a real need for such .
For that the emerging technology around the globe can be well embraced by Sri Lanka while adequate investments shall be
allocated to promote innovations locally.
On these grounds, compulsory optimization of the utility of the available resources and the existing infrastructure in the
planning of future physical developments is proposed as a guiding policy in planning.
The areas graded for the provision of the best utility in this regard are given in Figure 1.4

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 1.4: The  Optimized and  Best  Utilized  Space (Areas with Development Potentials)


<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2. The National Physical Plan 2050
2.1 The Spatial Structure
2.1.1 The Objective underlying the proposed spatial structure is to provide(the Government of) Sri
Lanka with a strategic development trajectory which will enable to achieve a well- planned and
sustainably developed physical environment, pleasing and adored both by its citizens and the
outsiders alike. The trajectory is formulated adhering to the four guiding policies set out in
Section 1.6, and with a view towards geographically and sectorally balanced development.
2.1.2. The proposed spatial structure is given in figure 2. The spatial structure presents themost
preferred scenario, among many other possibilities considered, to promote, regulate and to
coordinate future physical developments, executed by different state and private sector
organizations and individuals indistinct spatial entities over the three time horizons set out in
the Section 1.2 above.
The overall land use pattern in the island is expected to transform into the state shown in the
figure by 2050. The configuration is based on the findings of the detailed studies and in line with
the guiding policies indicated in Section 1.6.Therefore, the structure proposed herein, shall be
viewed as a live image of a spatial process, evolving through the effectuation of the four guiding
policies in responding to the emerging demands and needs of ongoing economic and social
developments, rather than a static end-state, conventionally understood by a plan of this nature.
The spatial structure is combined with sector specific strategies, mentioned in the forthcoming
sub-sections. Each strategy highlights strategic development interventions in specific spatial
entities that would support the envisaged pattern of growth, making the best use of the existing
potentials, while demoting physical developments in locations where such developments are
inappropriate due to sensitivity, safety and the need for conservation.
In the proposed scenario, a major share of physical developments is expected to be concentrated
into four ‘Development Corridors’, two ‘Metro Regions’ and nine ‘Main Cities’, which have
been identified as the most strategic locations for key investments expecting to deliver accrued
benefits. The Central Fragile Area, the Coast Conservation.
Zone, and Agricultural, Eco and Forest Reserves which cover nearly a third of the land area,
shall receive equal attention for conservation, and will be devoid of large scale physical
development interventions. In addition to those, it also proposes the locations, most appropriate
and advantageous in terms of reaching the development goals of the Government of Sri Lanka,
mentioned in Section 1.5 above, for major residential developments, industrial establishments,
commercial and other urban land uses.
The Plan

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 2: The Proposed Spatial Structure - 2050
Concentrated Urban Development Area
Rural Settlement
Coastal Enviromental Sensitive Area
Area Above 1500m
Conservation Areas
Central Environmnetal Sensitive Area
Waterbodies
Provincial Boundary
Proposed Elecrified Railway
Proposed Railway
Existing Railway
Expressway
(Upto 2030
Expressway
(To be considered after 2030
Highways
Priority Highway

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.1.3. The ‘Central Fragile Area’ shown in the figure 3, is the geographic entity that consists of the
lands with sensitive natural ecosystems, highly vulnerable to landslides and play a crucial role
in sustaining water resources. A major portion of these areas are located above 300 meters
from mean sea level and cover the upper catchments of all major rivers of the island. The identified
areas fall within the current administrative districts of Kandy, Nuwara Eliya, Kegalle (all areas)
and Matale, Ratnapura, Monaragala, Galle, Matara, Kalutara and Colombo (identified DS
Divisions). The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions is given in the annexure 01.
The physical developments in these lands shall be guided with stringent regulations and
comprehensive guidelines, enforced and monitored by the agencies responsible for the
development and conservation of these areas. The National Building Research Organization
(NBRO) has already declared this area under the title ‘Landslide Prone’ districts, and guidelines
are being developed for the construction activities carried out in this area. This will partially
support the conservation of geological profiles, hydro systems and the development density.
Since a major portion of the physical developments are associated with increasing urbanization
trends, ‘planned urban development’ is not an option, but a necessity for all localities in this
area. This is possible through the integrated Urban Development Plans prepared and implemented
for all existing and emerging urban areas, declared under the provisions of the Urban
Development Authority Law of 1978.
The conservation of critical land resources in these zones shall also be supported by a
depopulation strategy. A larger share from the next generations (2020-2050) of the populations
of these areas shall be attracted into the proposed economic development zones by means of
more attractive employment opportunities, affordable housing and more beneficial and vibrant
living environments.
In addition to the conservation of lands a well-organized and coordinated tree planting/re-
foresting program is essential for a long term conservation of the water resources in the area.
The implementation of the REDD+Sri Lanka National REDD+ Investment Framework and Action
Plan (2017) will provide adequate support for this purpose.
2.1.4 The ‘Coast Conservation Zone’, shown in figure 4, includes the area for which boundaries
have been delineated by the Coast Conservation Department under the provisions of the Coast
Conservation Act No. 57 of 1981. Even though a large quantum  of physical developments of
Sri Lanka has been taking place in this zone, conservation of the lagoons, estuaries, swamps,
riverine environments and other sensitive environments is important because of the eco services
that they provide, the attractions they have and the economic activities associated with them.
The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions which encompasses these areas are given in the
annexure 02.
The Coast Conservation Department is adequately equipped with powers to carryout conservation
functions in these areas, and a national level Coast Conservation Plan is already being developed.
In addition to that the Geological Surveys and Mines Bureau
The Central Fragile
Area
The Coast
Conservation Zone

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 3: Central Environmental Fragile Area


<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 4: Coastal Conservation Zone


<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
The Agro
Conservation
Zone
/The Water
Conservation
Zones
The Forest
Conservation
Zone
The Development
Corridors
plays a role in controlling mining activities and the Central Environmental Authority is
empowered to regulate activities that impact the costal environmental systems, while integrated
urban development plans will support to have least destructive physical developments for tourism,
fisheries, recreation and port related activities. However, the existing enactments by the Coast
Conservation Department, Central Environmental Authority and the Urban Development
Authority shall be strictly enforced in these areas.
2.1.5. An ‘Agro Conservation Zone’, shown in figure 5, is the geographic entity with lands that are
predominantly used for agricultural purposes, as defined by the Agrarian Services Act No. 58 of
1979 and Rubber, Coconut and any other type of Plantations which are situated away from the
main urban concentrations proposed in this report.
The most important DSD division in terms of % of total land extent of different agricultural
crops are shown in annexure 03. In addition, the list of enactments related to the agro conservation
zone is depicted in annexure 04.
2.1.6. The ‘Water Conservation Zones’ shown in figure 6, include the areas those can have an impact
on the long existing water cascading system, which includes Large tanks, supplementary tanks,
sedimentation tanks and small scale village tanks along with their watersheds and the feeding
canals, located mainly within the dry zone of the island. Even though almost all areas have these
water systems, the administrative districts given in annexure 05 are of critical importance with
this regard. The list of enactments related to the Water Conservation Zone are shown annexure
06
The physical developments associated with these water bodies and their water  catchment areas
shall be strictly regulated by the respective Divisional Secretaries, in coordination with the
relevant Local Authorities.
2.1.7. The ‘Eco Conservation Zone’ given in figure 7, is an entity with wetlands, catchments of
irrigation tanks, streams and reservoirs, and the sanctuaries declared by the Wildlife Conservation
Department, under the provisions of the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance, No 2 of 1937,
and subsequent amendments. A ‘Forest Conservation Zone’ includes any area declared as a
reserved forest by the Forest Conservation Department, under the provisions of the Forest
Ordinance No 16 of 1907 and its amendments. The Available Laws and Policies related to the
Eco Conservation Zone are shown annexure 07
2.1.8. A ’Development Corridor’ is a contiguous linear geographic entity, which connects a series
of major and minor agglomerations of economic activities, a variety of secondary and tertiary
sector industrial developments that mutually support the sustenance of each other through
forward and backward links, clusters of urban facilities that support a   relatively large
concentrations of people who live, work and patronize the facilities within, and benefited by
interconnected networks of physical, economic and social infrastructure.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 5: Agro Conservation Zone


<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 6: Water Conservation Zone


<!-- page 19 -->

19AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 7: Eco Conservation Zone/ Forest Conservation Zones


<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
The Development Corridors given in figure 8 are expected to make the largest contribution to
the National Economy, mainly by means of value addition to both local commodities as well as
import-export based global supply chains, capitalizing upon the three international ports in
Colombo, Trincomalee and Hambanthota and the small ports in Oluwil and Jaffna, international
airports in Katunayake, Mattala and Hingurakgoda (to be developed), the expressways and
improved high speed railway links. They thus, shall be the main sources to attract investments
and to provide employment opportunities.
Out of the total population in Sri Lanka in 2050, at least sixty percent (60%) is expected  to be
concentrated within these Development Corridors, identified within the proposed spatial
structure. Such concentration is mandatory to meet the thresholds of viability for the investments
on specific infrastructure and high-end urban facilities and to have the critical mass required
for their sustainability.
2.1.9 The East-West Development Corridor , is proposed between the Colombo and Tricomalee
districts. In order to capitalize upon the advantages of the two major ports in Colombo and
Trincomalee, the transport infrastructure and the  favorable  living conditions, a reasonably
higher share of the future population (approximately 35-40%) of Sri Lanka shall be settled in
lands that fall within the proposed East-West Development Corridor. The spatial extent of this
corridor is defined approximately as the area within the first 10 kilometers (highest
concentration), and 10-20 kilometers (medium concentration) and 20-30 kilometers (moderate
concentration) from the proposed expressways and highways.
In this Development Corridor, the Colombo Metro region, which is the conurbation of several
urban areas around Colombo, will be the largest concentration of settlements and expected to
be home for around three and a half million (3,500,000) residents. The other major
concentrations are proposed in five Metro Regions centering Negombo (600,000), Gampaha
(700,000) Kurunegala (1,000,000), Dambulla (500,000) and Trincomalee (1,000,000), along
with a series of ‘Cities’ in Beruwala, Kalutara-Matugama, Panadura- Horana, Mirigama-
Warakapola, Polgahawela, Alawwa, Ibbagamuwa, Galewela and Kantale., whose resident
populations may vary between 100,000-200,000 and ‘Small Towns’ which will have relatively
smaller concentrations (Table 02).
The area earmarked for this Corridor is constituted of 71 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table
01) and 12.3% (8069 km2) of the total land extent of the country.
2.1.10 The Northern Development Corridor, is expected to accommodate a residential population
of more than a million (1,200,000). The low population growth rate experienced by this region
can be increased to a moderate annual average growth rate of 1.2 percent to result in this number
by 2050 (Table 02).
Jaffna Metro Region and Kilinochchi are expected to be the epi-centers of the agglomeration
of this corridor. With the available restrictive environmental conditions and the possibility of
providing infrastructure, Kilinochchi is expected to have a higher growth than the other areas in
this corridor. This Corridor consists with 15 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table 01) and
2.9% (1925 km2) of the total land extent of the country.
The East-West
Development
Corridor
The Northern
Development
Corridor

<!-- page 21 -->

21AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 8: Proposed Urban Agglomeration Pattern - 2050


<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
The Southern
Development
Corridor
The Eastern
Development
Corridor
Kandy Metro
Region
Anuradhapura
Metro Region
2.1.11. The Southern Development Corridor , with the prevailing annual average rate of growth of
1.0 percent is expected to reach a residential population of more than one and a half million
(1,700,000) (Table 02).
The corridor will be developed centering on the Metro Regions at Galle, Matara and Hambantota,
Main Cities at Tangalle, Embilipitiya and Tissmaharama, and ‘Small Towns’ which will have
relatively smaller populations. The existing rate of growth shall continue  to reach the numbers
by 2050.
The Southern Corridor consists with 32 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table 01) and 3.4%
(2221 km2) of the total land extent of the country (Table 02).
2.1.12 The Eastern Development Corridor , is expected to have a residential population of more
than one million (1,200,000), which can be achieved with a little increase of its present rate of
growth to 1.0 percent (Table 02).
Batticaloa is proposed to be developed as a Metro Region with a population of 300,000, and
Valachahenai, Kalmunei, Ampara, and Akkareipattu are proposed to be the Cities with populations
varying between 250,000 to 100,000, along with a set of ‘Small Towns’ which will have relatively
smaller concentrations. This included 29 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table 01) and 4.6%
(3021 km2) of the total land extent of the country (Table 02).
2.1.13. A ‘Metro Region’ is a geographic entity with a relatively larger agglomeration of economic
activities, secondary and tertiary sector employment and a population around an urban area,
characterized either by a single node or several nodes of urban facilities. Within this policy, a
‘Metro Region’ shall be an indication of an area with a minimum population of 500,000, and a
net residential population density between 1000 - 5,000 persons per square kilometer.
Kandy Metro Region is proposed to facilitate a population of ten hundred thousand
(1,000,000) (Table 02).The area identified for proposed Metro Region in Kandy presently
accommodates a population of 680,000, but this is likely to grow beyond the expected number,
if additional measures will not be taken to attract its future populations in to other areas.
The Kandy Metro Region consists with 8 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table 01) and 0.7%
(430 km2) of the total land extent of the country (Table 02).
Anuradhapura Metro Region is expected to facilitate a population of five hundred thousand
(500,000) within the respective areas of its direct influence. The present population in the
area identified for Anuradhapura Metro Region is 311,000, which is expected to grow at an
increased annual average growth rate of 1.6% to achieve the targeted numbers (Table 02).
The Anuradhapura Metro  Region consists  with 8 Divisional Secretary Divisions    (Table
1) and 2.5% (1670 km2) of the total land extent of the country (Table 02).
2.1.14A ‘Main City’ is a relatively larger concentration of economic activities, urban facilities and
residential population, and serves as the higher order service Centre to a reasonably larger
land area. Within this policy, a ‘Main City’ shall be defined as an area with a minimum population
of 100,000, and a net residential population density between 100 - 500 persons per square
kilometer.
Main Cities

<!-- page 23 -->

23AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
The following locations are proposed to be developed as independent medium scale urban
facility locations with populations varying between one and two hundred thousand (100,000-
200,000) (Table 02):
1. Mannar,
2. Mulaitivu,
3. Vauniya,
4. Puttalam,
5. Polonnaruwa,
6. NuwaraEliya,
7. Ratnapura,
8. Mahiyanganaya
9. Wellawaya,
These ‘Main Cities’,shown in figure 8, are expected to containa larger share of the future
urban growth excluded from the Development Corridors and the two Metro Regions, which
otherwise will be scattered all over the island within the next 20 years. They shall collectively
accommodate up to 2.6-2.7 million residents within their areas of influence. However, out of
them Nuwara Eliya and Ratnapura may need to divert their excess populations into elsewhere
in future due to their fragile environmental conditions.
2.1.15 Ter tiary Agglomerations of around two hundred medium and small scale towns in both
designated and non-designated urban areas, are expected to have less than 50,000 people in
each of them, and to support the basic needs of settlements scattered in the rest of the island.
2.1.16 The Implementation of the spatial structure shall be assured by the following actions taken
by the relevant agencies:
a. Investment on strategic projects that will generate more attractive employment and
business opportunities (mainly in the manufacturing and service sector) for the next
generation entering the labor force, at locations proposed by this plan.
b. Increasing the availability of land/houses and urban infrastructure (especially water supply
and public transportation) at affordable prices at locations identified for residential
developments within the proposed urban agglomerations.
c. Providing high performing social infrastructure (especially primary and secondary
schools, high quality health services and recreation facilities) associated with the main
urban areas proposed in this plan.
2.2 The Urban Development strategy
2.2.1 The Objective
The urban development strategy is to regulate and promote the urban areas with comprehensive
development guidelines. The urban development plans prepared by the Urban Development
Authority and other development agencies shall strictly take the following aspects in to
consideration.
2.2.1.1 Attractive and Livable Conditions
The conditions within the urban areas must be conducive for living, working and
entertainment. The tropical climate conditions prevailing within most of the urban areas
shall be handled with adequate sensitivity. Positive characteristics such as the bright day
light, constant temperature and humidity conditions, etc, as well as the harsh sunny and
heavy rainy weather conditions shall be responded with appropriate measures of planning
and urban design in order to provide appealing and livable atmosphere.
Small Towns
Integrated Urban
Development

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.2.1.2 Safe and Secure Localities
The safety from external forces such as the floods, landslides, sea erosion as well as
internal issues such as the frequent road accidents, public nuisance, wide spreading
epidemics, etc, shall be addressed at the planning of urban areas. Safe environments also
include special attention paid to children, disabled and senior citizens. Security from
theft, burglary, crimes and terrorist attacks shall be provided through both physical and
non-physical measures.
2.2.1.3 Smart and Convenient Facilities
The ease of access to various information related to day to day operations, reliability of
public services provided by various institutions, and the convenience of using urban
facilities makes an urban area ‘smart’. The advancements in information technology may
assist to provide fast and reliable information through smart devices, but the delivery
depends largely upon the persons and the systems in place. Even though a major
contribution for such systems shall be non-physical, the physical environments shall be
planned and designed to enable the commendable use of such systems, when provided
with the required versatility.
2.2.1.4 Green and Sustainable Environments
The selection of the most appropriate lands, safe and reliable construction methods,
saving of water both in construction and in operations, effective use of renewable energy,
use of appropriate materials in optimum quantities, response to thermal conditions, use
of efficient devices, etc, shall be made compulsory for all constructions in order to
assure environmentally sustainable and ‘Green’ developments.
2.2.2 Improved Public Transport modes that assures efficient, affordable and reliable service
shall be identified as a key factor for the improvement of livability in urban areas. Therefore,
strategic investment program in reorganizing mode-integration and systematizing the operations
along with the state-of the-art passenger services for the improvement of public transportation
throughout the island with a special emphasis on  the urban agglomerations proposed in section
2.1 shall be implemented by 2025.
Since the residential populations within most of the Metro Regions and Cities, except Colombo
Metro Region, will not exceed a million, heavy investments on high tech transportation solutions
for local passenger transportation may not be economically viable. In most of the urban areas,
local passenger transportation needs can be best catered by improving the existing bus services
until 2030. However, the operations  need  to be heavily regulated, buses and the waiting facilities
must provide the required  comfort, and smart services such as e-ticketing and information
display need to be provided to make the services more efficient, cost effective and attractive
to passengers.
In the proposed Development Corridors, the railway shall be given priority because it is the
most economically viable and environmentally sustainable inter-city mode for both passenger
and goods transportation.
2.2.3 High Quality Utilities shall be provided in order to boost urban development, strategic
investments. To this end the augmentation of the existing water supply projects, improvement
of drainage, introduction of underground sewer, enhancement of the electricity network, and
the introduction of fire services, shall be provided as priorities within the period 2020-2030
for the areas identified for the development of Metro Regions and Cities of the Development
corridors, the two independent Metro Regions and the Nine Main Cities, on priority basis.
Priority on Public
Transport
Physical Quality
of Life

<!-- page 25 -->

25AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Throughout the proposed Development Corridors, improved inter-connected water supply, gas
and electricity distribution networks, fed by multiple sources located at different points, shall
be implemented in order to maintain an uninterrupted, consistent and regulated supply for all
activities within them.
2.2.4 Augmented Social Infrastructure is essential in order to enhance the attraction of the future
generations of the population to those selected urban areas for residential and employment
purposes the provision of high quality education, health, communication and recreation facilities
is proposed.
It is observed that almost all areas, identified to be promoted as Metro Regions and Main
Cities, already have adequate education and health facilities. The immediate requirement is to
invest on the improvement of the quality and the capacities of the existing facilities, rather than
the establishment of new facilities. Yet, in some urban areas, the schools and hospitals located
within core areas shall be relocated to alternative locations within close proximities, in order
to avoid issues related to crowding, traffic congestion, user safety, etc., with adequate
considerations on the appropriateness of their existing locations for such facilities.
2.2.5 Improved Pedestrian Spaces shall be given priority in all urban development programs to
make the urban areas more attractive. Strategic interventions such as the  improvement and
regulation of their pedestrian environments shall be proposed in all development plans. Walking
can be regarded as the best solution for most of the issues presently apparent in Sri Lankan
urban areas such as traffic congestion, unauthorized parking, accidents, etc. As a priority measure,
pedestrian friendliness shall be considered as the main objective of future urban plans, instead
of the present dominance given to vehicular movement. The pedestrian areas shall be suitable
for the tropical weather conditions available and appropriate designs shall be devised accordingly.
2.2.6 Increased and Improved Recreation Facilities at the local level, shall be provided to cater
the increasing rate of urbanizing lifestyles of the inhabitants. This is a necessity for  a healthy
nation and to reduce heavy costs on providing health services.
The general standard is to have one hectare of open space for 1000 persons, which is hardly
met in present urban development schemes. Nevertheless, provision of large extents of lands
for open spaces for public recreation facilities is a challenge amidst the scarcity of land and
the pressure for developments in urban areas. Yet, innovative approaches such as the opening of
canal reservations, river banks, marshy areas and beach fronts along with reasonable facilities
and maintenance of them will enable to overcome the difficulties in providing public open
spaces. Parallel to that providing wider road spaces at neighborhood levels to be used as
makeshift children play areas and gathering spaces will work as an alternative way of providing
public open spaces and also to strengthen ‘neighborhood’ or ‘lane’ communities.
2.2.7 More Space for Physical Developments shall be made available in order to support the intense
developments in selected urban areas by means of more appropriate Floor Area Ratios (FAR),
higher densities and mix developments, yet, regulated within comprehensive development guide
plan required instead of the currently adopted activity based zoning, The Development Plans
prepared by the Urban Development Authority for the identified Urban Areas of the said
Development Corridors, Metro Regions and the Main Cities, shall consider appropriate methods
based in densities and the floor area ratios demanded by the economic activities appropriate
urban forms, environmental learning capacities, infrastructure availability and the populations
envisaged in those locations.
Social Quality of
Life
Walkable Cities
Recreation
Facilities for all
Intense and
Compact Cities

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.2.8 A wider Choice of Employment Opportunities shall be provided as a measure to generate
increased number of direct and indirect employment opportunities in such locations providing
lands and other infrastructure required for appropriate type of industries.
2.2.9 Smart Facilities is a requirement for the improved connectivity of people and locations both
locally and internationally in all urban areas. To this end high quality communication
infrastructure is a requirement. The ongoing concept of Smart Cities is a progressive initiative
in this regard. Owing to the rapid advancements in information technology and digital
infrastructure, in near future the relative costs of providing smart facilities will be justifiable
in the light of benefits such as the convenient access to information, automated pubic services,
more transparency in governance, etc., that they can provide.
In that context, fully fledged smart environments are proposed to be established along all four
economic corridors, metro regions and the main cities during the period 2020-2025. This can
be extended into other areas thereafter.
2.2.10 Green Built Environments shall be the theme of all physical developments. In order to
ensure environmentally sustainable development within urban areas, the green building practices
are proposed to be made essential for all physical developments, including buildings, roads,
recreation facilities, etc. by 2020.
As general policies the following are proposed to be adopted as strategic projects in the planning
and implementation of all urban developments:
1. Establishment of urban scale collective rain water harvesting facilities such as open
ponds, underground reservoirs, etc at identified strategic locations, implemented by the
National Water Supply and Drainage Board in coordination with Urban Development
Authority and the Local Authorities.
2. Solar fields installed in the appropriately built roof tops in selected localities,
implemented by the Sustainable Energy Authority and the Ceylon Electricity Board.
3. Community based waste management initiative that includes source management, sorting,
collection and recycling in all condominium and neighborhood developments,
implemented by the Provincial Waste Management Authorities, in coordination with the
Local Authorities.
4. Minimum un-built open area requirement and space for green cover strictly regulated
and maintained within urban areas as specified in respective urban development plans.
5. The Green Building certification process implemented by the Urban Development
Authority be extended to all categories of developments to facilitate this initiative.
6. An island wide programme to shade main streets and major public spaces of all urban
areas with trees of endemic species, implemented by the Urban Development Authority.
7. Strict implementation of Green Procurement guidelines for all projects, purchase of
equipment and devices involved in urban development activities.
Wider
Opportunities
Smart Cities
Green Cities

<!-- page 27 -->

27AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.3 Transportation Development
2.3.1 The Objective
This is to act as a complimentary element to the National Transport Policy which was approved
by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2009 and the same is being updated by the Ministry of Transport
and Civil Aviation, the following objectives are proposed by the this plan:
2.3.1.1 Pro-active approaches
Connectivity, accessibility and mobility are among key factors that influence the proposed
land use and the settlement distribution pattern. Therefore, transportation planning  should
work hand in hand with land use planning, in order to expect a healthy land uses as well as
sustainable transportation infrastructure development. Sustainable transportation planning
which is based on the three pillars, namely: to avoid, to shift and to improve, shall adopt
pro-active policy approaches that support not only to turn future land use and the settlement
distribution in desired direction, but also support to encourage modal shift from private
to public and to improve efficiency and reliability, rather than mere responses to the
present demand trends, and ineffective investment on transportation infrastructure.
2.3.1.2 Optimization of the available infrastructure
Both passenger and goods transportation modes and the related infrastructure involves
heavy investments, which under the current economic conditions will add to debt burden
on Sri Lanka’s economy for next twenty to thirty years, and therefore, optimization of
the utility of the available transport infrastructure with minimum additions, is the most
viable option to provide transport infrastructure.
2.3.1.3 Investment on economically feasible projects
With the fast evolving technology and the changing lifestyles of the people, the travel
behavior as well as the modes of passenger and goods transportation are likely to  change
within the period envisaged in this plan, and therefore, in a transforming situation all
investments bear some levels of risks of not providing the best utility and not yielding
the expected benefits. Therefore, investment decisions for transportation developments
need to follow comprehensive feasibility studies before they are turned into projects.
2.3.1.4 Selection of environmentally sustainable modes
Transportation sector is identified as one of the major contributors to Greenhouse Gas
emissions in Sri Lanka. In order to comply with the permitted emission levels and for a
sustainable  conservation  of  the  environment  the  minimization  of  the  use  of   private
vehicles and the promotion of the public transportation shall be the policy in future
developments. Out of the available modes rail transportation shall be the first in the priority
order.
2.3.1.5 Introduction of modern technology for efficiency and comfort
Even though economic viability is a concern, the safety and reliability are important in
all modes of transportation. Therefore, the introduction of the state-of-the art technology
available to improve the efficiency, such as the automation of vehicles, electronic
ticketing, inter-modal integration, etc., and the user comfort shall not be compromised at
any cost in the development of both passenger and goods transportation.
2.3.1.6 Equality and Equity in investments
There shall be equal consideration on the inter-regional connectivity as well
as the first and last-mile connectivity. Heavy investments on large scale infrastructure at inter-
regional level transportation infrastructure, with no due regard for local and city level
Transportation
Development
Strategy

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
transportation development will not bring in the required benefits to the nation. At the same
time, due consideration shall be there for the order of priority: The Pedestrian, The Cyclist
and the Motor Vehicles. It is unfortunate to note that the current road development projects
pay less attention to the pedestrian and the cyclist, despite the emphasis given  in the
transportation policy.
2.3.2 Rail T ransportation
Out of the all transportation modes available, the rail transportation was studied to be the most
economical for inter-regional goods and passenger transportation as well as for urban mass
transportation. Most of the areas identified for future urban agglomerations are already
accomplished with railway connections and the related facilities. Therefore, in the four Urban
Corridors, railways are expected to be the most attractive among all modes in future. In order
to meet such expectation, a remarkable improvement in the available rail network is essential.
The electrification of the rail between Aluthgama and Veyangoda, and Colombo and Negombo
by 2025, are already proposed by the current Railway Improvement Master Plan. These projects
will complement the proposed East-West Development Corridor. In order to move further,
this electrified railway is proposed to be extended up to  Kurunegala before 2030. The current
Railway Improvement Master Plan also proposes a rail link between Kurunegala and Habarana,
via Dambulla. This proposal is highly commendable in the light of the proposed corridor
development scenario. This length, along with the available rail link from Habarana to
Trincomalee shall be improved by 2030 with an electrified, high speed train service to enhance
the connectivity among locations within the proposed East-West Development corridor.
In order to facilitate the developments in the Southern Development Corridor the existing rail
services from Aluthgama to Matara need to be improved. As per the available proposal this
service can be extended from Matara to Hambantota by 2030.
In the Northern Urban Corridor rail services shall be intensified between Kilinochchi and
Kankasanthurei by 2025. If the said new connection between Kurunegala and Habarana can be
supplemented with an additional connection between Habarana and Anuradhapura the existing
connection with Polgahawela via Mahawa will be sufficient to cater to the demand until 2030
and thereafter.
In the Eastern Corridor, rail services between Valachchenai and Baticalloa need to be improved,
while  the  existing  connection  with  Habarana  will  be  able  to  meet   travel demands until
2030. In order to improve connectivity within this corridor, an extension of the same line up to
Ampara via Kalmunei is proposed to be established by 2025.
The other sections of the available network and the services in them shall also be improved in
order to facilitate inter-regional transportation needs. In addition to the available network,
new railways are proposed: between Kurunegala and Kandy  (by 2025), between Hambantota
and Polonnaruwa, via Wellawaya and Mahiyangana (by 2030), with a possible link to existing
line at Badulla; between Colombo and Hambantota via Rathnapura and Embilipitiya (by 2030);
between Ampara and Wellawaya (after 2030). However, the electrification of these lines may
not be an immediate requirement, owing to the heavy investments involved and the level of
services expected out of them. ‘
In addition to the above developments, an augmentation of the available railway infrastructure,
such as the additional lines to the existing lengths and improvements to  the existing lines are
essential to improve the efficiency of the railway transportation. A few projects are already
under the consideration by the Department of Railways, which includes adding lines between
Colombo and Ragama, Colombo and Homagama, Colombo and Moratuwa, etc.
Rail
Transportation

<!-- page 29 -->

29AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Another area that needs immediate attention of the authorities is the improvements to the
passenger services. This includes the modernization of the facilities in railway stations with
comfortable facilities, better waiting areas, smart environments in them, etc, while, the
modernization of the services in for commuters such as e-ticketing, on-line reservation,
personalized services, train tracking possibilities, etc. Such improvements, along with the
improved efficiency of the services, are likely to make a dramatic shift of passengers from
road based modes to railway.
2.3.3 Road Infrastructure
It is observed that the public road length maintained by the Government, both at Central and
Provincial level exceed 30,000 kilometers. In terms of road density Sri Lanka is at a reasonably
higher position compared to other nations in the region. Yet, the necessary improvements and
timely maintenance of these roads, specially the provincial roads, has not been at a satisfactory
level. In spite of the facts that road transportation serves for more than 90% of the transportation
demand, and it is the most convenient and most flexible option specially for the first and the
last mile connections, maintenance of the increasing extents of road infrastructure has
throughout been a costly affair to the economy. Under such circumstance, prioritization of the
road infrastructure developments and the optimization of the utility of the available infrastructure
are essential for an economical and sustainable road transportation strategy.
Expressways are relatively more expensive developments, but can facilitate fast communication
between locations. The Southern Expressway, Colombo–Katunayake Expressway, Outer Circular
Highway, and the ongoing projects those connect Matara to Hambantota, and Colombo to
Dambulla via Kurunegala will facilitate the connectivity and the speedy movements between
the locations within the proposed Development Corridors.
The movement patterns and the projections expected within the future urban development,
settlement distribution, industrial locations, tourism promotion and the other related
developments, scenarios proposed in this Plan, indicates that the already available set of
expressways and the currently implemented expressway projects, namely the Colombo-
Hambantota and the Colombo-Dambulla and the last phase of the Colombo Outer Circular
Highway, will be adequate to meet the large scale road infrastructure requirements  until  2030.
The need for  further  extensions  to  the  expressways shall be assessed based on the demand
patterns likely to arise after 2030. Instead, rapid improvements to railway services, as indicated
in the previous section, along with highly integrated, connected and improved local bus services,
and the upgrading of the existing inter-regional highway facilities will be able to adequately
serve for travel demands and goods transportation until 2030, and in turn to support the proposed
physical development pattern.
However, in order to improve inter-regional connectivity and to facilitate speedy access, the
existing highways that connect the proposed metro regions and the main cities shall be improved
and maintained on priority basis. The identified ‘priority highways’ are Hambantota-Wellawaya-
Batticaloa (A2), Negombo-Puttalam (A3), Dambulla- Trincomalee (A6), Dambulla-Jaffna (A9),
Kandy–Puttalam (A10), Habarana – Polonnaruwa- Batticaloa (A11), Trincomalee-Puttalam
(A12), Medawachchiya-Mannar (A14) and Mankulam- Mullaitivu (A34). In these connections
(and the other highways) a main problem frequently noted is the bottle-necks formed in the
urban areas that they run through. The ribbon developments taking place along the highway, that
becomes the ‘Main Street’ at the locations of these urban areas, often result in congestion and
slowdown in main flows. This problem cannot be addressed only through road development or
traffic engineering, but has to be addressed through comprehensive integrated urban development
plans and pro-active urban development strategies implemented at the local level.
Roads
Development

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
At the Provincial and Local levels, the upgrading, timely maintenance and the optimum use of
available road spaces rather than the construction of new roads, except for compelling reasons,
shall be policy for road development.
2.3.4 Aviation
The National Civil Aviation Policy for Sri Lanka (2016) highlights ‘the future direction and
positioning of Sri Lanka as a leading aviation and transport hub in the South Asian Region,
transforming the country into a superior air service provider while connecting to the wider
world aviation network. It also identifies that timely modernizing Air Traffic Management
(ATM) and upgrading and expansion of Airport Infrastructure are critical to cater for growth in
traffic and to ensure efficient use of airspace and airports.
With the increasing affluence of the Sri Lankan society, improved business environment and
the development of tourism industry, there will be an upward demand for airport and aviation
facilities. It is already predicted that with the increasing air traffic and passenger volumes, the
carrying capacity of the existing Bandaranayake International Airport (BIA) at Katunayake will
reach maximum within a short period. Therefore, plans are already underway for the expansion
of landing facilities, passenger terminals and cargo handling facilities. In order to internalize
the positive impacts of the increased use of the BIA, the area surrounding Katunayake airport
is proposed to be developed with all facilities required for a modern Aero-City. This may be
the catalyst for the proposed Negombo – Katunayake Metro Region within the East-West
Development Corridor.
In addition, the Mahinda Rajapakshe International Airport (MRIA) at Mattala is a facility that
cannot be neglected because of the heavy investments made on it, and the potential that it gains
owing to the strategic location that Sri Lanka is positioned within the international air traffic
routes. In order to get any benefit and to avoid deterioration it needs to start operations at the
earliest.
These two airports will be able to support the international travel requirements in near future.
Yet, if the prevalent business development trends continue more air travel  demand can be
expected within next ten years and a need for a third international airport will arise. In such
context, complying with the envisaged pattern of the physical developments, and optimizing
the available resources, out of all options available, Hingurakgoda air strip will be the best
candidate to get the upgrading to an international airport. Since it is located within a close
proximity to the main infrastructure proposed within the main East-West Development Corridor,
Hingurakgoda airport will be able to serve all needy areas with appropriate connections.
The National Civil Aviation Policy identifies that the development of aerodromes in underserved
or remote regions brings job creation, economic activity, greater connectivity and social
integration to national economy. Accordingly, parallel to the development of BIA and the MRIA,
the demand for domestic air travel too can be expected to increase. In order to cater to the
demand, the existing domestic airports at Ratmalana, Ampara, Trincomalee, Puttalam, Palali
and Anuradhapura are proposed to be developed with necessary passenger and cargo handling
facilities. However, these developments need to follow comprehensive travel demand analyses
and feasibility studies. The proposed infrastructure configurations - 2050 are shown in Figure
9.
Aviation

<!-- page 31 -->

31AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.4 Physical Infrastructure Provision
2.4.1 Objective
The utilities and services are critical for a planned development of human settlements,
comfortable living and efficient functioning of economic activities. The physical infrastructure
such as the pipe borne water supply, storm water drainage networks, public sewer, liquid and
solid waste collection and disposal systems, etc., required to provide such utilities are therefore,
plays a major role in realization of the envisaged pattern of development. With that in view, the
following objectives are set forth in support of the proposed spatial and settlement strategies.
2.4.1.1 Convenience to the Users and Service Providers
The level of accessibility to the user to the utilities as well as the ability to reach them by
the service provider are critical in successful provision of respective services. The
settlement pattern makes a direct implication with this regard.
2.4.1.2 S trategic and Viable Investments
It is observed that electricity supply and road infrastructure have reached more than 95%
of the populations of the island. The consistency in supply, operations and regular
maintenance, augmentation of facilities are the main issues associated with them.
Currently, the water supply and drainage services are fast improving in many areas. It is
also noted that the new installations and augmentations of the existing infrastructure
involves heavy costs and therefore, in order to best utilize the available finances, strategic
projects those will bring in the best outcomes need to be identified for investments.
2.4.1.3 Optimum Utility and Environmental Sustainability
In the provision of the utilities, the service providers shall assess the priorities in terms
of the threshold demands by the populations and other activities to sustain the project.
At the same time, the utilities can be a tool to guide developments into desirable
directions. The environmentally sensitive areas and reserves can be best protected through
non-provision of utilities.
Physical
Infrastructre

<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Figure 9: Proposed Infrastructure Configuration - 2050


<!-- page 33 -->

33AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
 2.4.2  Water Supply and Drainage:
The water is a critical commodity for three purposes: the domestic and industrial uses, agriculture
and irrigation, and sustainability of natural ecosystems.
The domestic and industrial demands in urban areas are presently catered by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board. A number of water supply and drainage projects are already being
implemented by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board aiming to cater to targets of
2020 horizon, but most of them are at the local and regional scale. In addition to them, a
National Level Water Resource Management project is essential to provide safe, sufficient
and sustainable water supply for future physical developments. In such a project the following
features shall be integrated:
As stated earlier, in order to assure optimum utility and the appropriate use of resources, as
well as to support the proposed settlement pattern, the best option would be the networks of
interconnected water supply schemes in the proposed Development Corridors. Such networking
facility will support a long range service through a trans-basin diversion of water into the demand
areas and thereby overcome the supply issues emerging from source inadequacy, source tapping
difficulties and the seasonal fluctuations of flows at the sources. Even though reduction in
rainfall is predicted, it is observed that the prudent management of the available water resources
in the rivers will enable to meet the demands projected up to 2030 (and beyond) in the given
development scenario with a few alternative sources.
Out of the main water sources available, Mahaweli River, Kalu Ganga River and Kelani River
will be able to provide the quantity of water that is required to meet the demand generating
from the main Development Corridor between Colombo and Trincomalee until 2030, with the
support of an inter-connected trans-basin service network as proposed above. The demand
emerging from the Southern Corridor needs to be catered to with the water available in Gin
Ganaga and Nilwala Ganga Rivers in a similar trans-basin networked service.
However, new sources will have to be explored for the Northern and the Eastern urban corridors
as the rivers in those areas may have scarcities to provide water to meet demands throughout.
The proposed ‘River for Jaffna’, (Arumugam Proposal, 1965) which is under consideration by
the Government of Sri Lanka, has high potential to provide the Northern Development Corridor
to flourish with innumerable benefits as well as to support agro based developments in the
North.
The water for agricultural purposes are managed by the Irrigation Department. It is recorded
that the lands cultivated with water from major and minor irrigation schemes are over one
million hectares, and out of the total food production of Sri Lanka, more than sixty-five (65%)
is from these lands. In order to ensure food security, preservation of the traditional agriculture
and to conserve the ecosystems associated with them, the said National Water Resource
Management project shall include measures towards demand management and guiding the
optimum use of water for irrigation and other agriculture related activities.
The sewerage disposal needs will have to be addressed on local basis. As per the numbers,
projected in the proposed settlement distribution strategy given in Section 5.2, new underground
sewers with other ancillary installations will be necessary by 2030 for main agglomerations in
areas such as Sri Jayawardanepura, Kaduwela, Peliyagoda, Wattala, Kolonnawa, Maharagama,
within Colombo Metro Region, and the identified core areas of Negombo, Ragama, Gampaha,
Mirigama, Kurunegala, Dambulla, Trincomalee, Kinniya,   Muttur,   Galle,   Hikkaduwa,   Matara,
Jaffna,   Batticaloa,   Kalmunei,  Kandy,
Water Supply and
Drainage

<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Anuradhapura and Nuwara Eliya. Depending upon the future development pattern beyond 2030,
further installations can be considered in Hambantota, Ampara, Puttalama, Mannar, Kilinochchi,
Eravur, Rathnapura, and the areas within proposed main urban agglomerations. Such installations
will enable to increase the carrying capacities of those locations, conserving sensitive natural
eco-systems.
For surface water drainage multiple measures will be required both at local level and regional
level. As a general policy the installation of rainwater harvesting facilities in individual
developments as well as in urban neighborhoods with relatively larger scale developments
shall be promoted in all built up areas, and specially in urban areas. This strategy is important
because it will partially compliment the water demand, contribute to prevent flash floods caused
by reduced ground assimilation in built up areas and it will enable to recharge ground water
sources.
The construction of bunds at appropriate locations and forming small to medium scale cascading
ponds, managed by community organizations or the respective local authorities in all river
basins will be a viable solution for the management of water in the less densely built areas. The
surroundings of such ponds can also be used as sites for public recreation.
2.4.3. Energy
The exiting plans pertaining to this sector such as the Long Term Generation Expansion Plan-
2018-2037 (Draft) by Ceylon Electricity Board, Electricity Supply 2020 And Beyond
Challenges And Recommendations published by the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka,
and Towards an Energy Secure Sri Lanka’, Sustainable Energy Programmes 2015 – 2025,
published by the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority, The Energy Sector Development
Plan For A Knowledge-Based Economy 2015 - 2025 published by the Ministry of Power &
Energy Sri Lanka, the Petroleum Exploration Development Plan (2017) by the Petroleum
Resources Development Secretariat; , Petroleum Resources Act No. 26 of 2003; show that
adequate attention has already been received by the energy sector. In conformity with the aims
and objectives mentioned therein, and to meet the physical development targets of this Plan,
the following spatial strategies are proposed.
The said report on ‘Electricity Supply 2020 and Beyond: Challenges and Recommendation’
recommends short-term, medium-term and long-term solutions to ensure long-term energy
security in a sustainable manner. According to the report, the  Sri Lankan power system had
total installed capacity of approximately 4054 MW by end of year 2016 with a total dispatching
capacity of 3538 MW. The maximum demand recorded in 2016 was 2453 MW and total
generation was 14250 GWh. Generation expansion planning is a part of the process of achieving
the above objectives. In order to meet the increasing demand for electrical energy and to
replace the thermal plants due for decommissioning, new generating stations need to be installed
as and when necessary.
Petroleum Resources Development Secretariat (PRDS) plans to move forward with a strategic
oil and gas exploration and development plan prioritizing with a list of short, medium and long
term Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) projects taking into consideration the emerging business
models, newly introduced procurement methods, market potential and national benefits
provisions, etc. with the purpose of adding extra value to the economy through capacity building
of national human resources and technological advancement of the country through the
participation of international Contractors/ Operators in upstream petroleum operations in Sri
Lanka.
Energy

<!-- page 35 -->

35AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Petroleum Resources Act No. 26 of 2003 is the governing legislation for petroleum exploration
and development in Sri Lanka. The Petroleum Resources Development Committee (PRDC)
established under this Act is responsible for implementing the provisions of this Act, and the
Petroleum Resources Development Secretariat (PRDS) is responsible for the administration
and regulation of all exploration and production activities in Sri Lanka.
The larger share of the demand for both electricity and petro-based fuels will also be from the
Development Corridors. With the settlement pattern, industrial developments and transportation
infrastructure, proposed in the Spatial Strategy indicated in the Section 5.1 above, it can be
expected that more than half (50%) of the future national demand will be concentrated to the
East- West Development Corridor.
In that context, the looped continuous service network along the East-West Development
Corridor, similar to what is proposed for water supply, is proposed to ensure a regular  and non-
interrupted provision of electricity, petroleum and gas supply which are critical  for the
promotion of these main development areas. In addition to the augmentation of  the existing
systems, new Petroleum and LNG terminals, and power generation plants at Trincomalee, and
within close proximity to Colombo (Kerawalapitiya), will support the electricity, liquid fuel
and gas supplies to the entire island through a continuous channel. Similar establishments at
appropriate locations in the other Development Corridors shall be considered towards 2030,
in order to provide necessary utilities. To accommodate these installations, the traces of
proposed expressways and railways in the main Development Corridors, shall also be considered
as ‘Utility Corridors’.
Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority ‘s (SLSEA) Energy Management Action Plan (2016-
2020) is to achieve 20 % energy generation from renewable sources by 2020 and this is an
achievable target. This may be increased to 30-40% by 2050, but whether the entire energy
demand can be met with renewable sources by 2050 is debatable. Yet, since Sri Lanka has
determined to meet the emission targets set out by international agreements and protocols,
and also to ensure clean energy provision, roof top solar fields are proposed to be mandatory
by urban development regulations in all residential,  commercial and institutional developments
targeting to meet minimum of 20% of the energy demanded by respective urban areas. Ground
area solar fields are also proposed within close proximities to all Metropolitan areas and Main
Cities.
However, a comprehensive programme is essential to be developed now to manage the waste
likely to be generated from the solar uses in the near future. The promotion of ClGn installing
shall be pat with side programme.
A few large scale hydro-power generation stations are proposed by the Ceylon Electricity Board
in Seethawaka (Kithulgala), Broadlands (Hatton), and Malwala (Ratnapura), all within the Central
Fragile Area, identified by this Plan. Since this Plan suggests a depopulation strategy for these
sensitive areas, these projects can be well accommodated, subject to comprehensive studies
on the impacts that they will have  upon the natural environmental assets.
2.4.4. W aste Management
Efficient solid waste management schemes are essential to support the envisaged physical and
economic development scenario. The areas with proposed urban agglomerations are expected
to accommodate industrial, commercial, health and other service facilities, in addition to the
large residential populations expected in them.
Waste
Management

<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
The projects that are being implemented such as the Waste-to-Energy plants in Kerawalapitiya,
Boralesgamuwa and Kandy, the Large Scale Sanitary Land Fills at Aruwakkalu will be taking
most of the waste generated within next decade, once they will commence their operations in
2020. In that context, a centrally managed system that includes collection, transportation and
disposal, supported by modern technological interventions, operated through a National Level
Waste Management Authority is proposed to be established for the areas that fall within the
four Development Corridors, Metro Regions and the Main Cities, by 2020.
Owing to the relatively lower volumes of solid waste expected to be generated with the ongoing
promotional programmes and the lower populations expected in them, the other areas will be
able to manage with the conventional recycling, composting and sanitary landfilling.
With the increasing awareness programmes on Reduction, Reduce and Reuse (3R), the
generation and quantities coming into disposal may decrease, but the current socio- economic
developments indicate the need to have effective policies, instruments and methodologies to
handle non-conventional waste such as electronic waste, clinical waste, etc. The proposal for
disposal of such categories of waste is beyond the scope of this Plan, but when well researched
and effective disposal methods are developed, appropriate locations for facilities required to
accommodate them could be identified  within the spatial framework provided by this Plan.
2.5  Social Infrastructure Provision
2.5.1 Objective
Provision of Social Infrastructure is a critical requirement for human settlement development
and related economic development. Among different types of social infrastructure required
for the successful implementation of the envisaged human settlement development pattern,
education, health and administrative services are the most crucial for which successive
governments have been paying special attention. The recent policy developments in these sectors
such as ‘the ‘Nearest School- The Best school’ ( Langama Pasela – Hondama Pasela ),
‘Compulsory Secondary Education’, ‘Tertiary Education for all’, ‘Prevention of Non
Communicative Diseases through Physically Active Nation’, Decentralized Administration,
E-Governance, etc., have direct implications on the physical development of the island.
In that background, the following common objectives are set forth for the provision of education,
health and administrative infrastructure.
2.5.1.1 Convenience to the Public
Similar to the physical infrastructure, the convenience to the users as well as the service
providers is an important factor that needs to be considered in the selection of the
locations for installation of social infrastructure facilities such as schools, hospitals,
administrative offices,  etc. In every occasion these facilities shall be planned as close
as possible to main access roads, urban centres and within close proximity to each
other.
2.5.1.2 S trategic Investments for Optimum Utility
It can be observed that education, health and administrative infrastructure are well
distributed throughout the island. Even though the demand on education and health are
concentrated to specific facilities and locations, future investment on social infrastructure
shall ensure the improvement and augmentation of the existing facilities, rather than
establishment of new facilities. In planning for investments, the maximum utility of the
facility shall be ensured through comprehensive feasibility analysis.
Social
Infrastructure
Development

<!-- page 37 -->

37AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.5.1.3 Economical Operations and Sustainable Use
It is frequently stated that most of the investments in social infrastructure do not bring in
credible returns to the economy. A well-organized hierarchy of the service, the locations
and the coverage of communities at different levels, usually minimize the waste and enable
to optimize the cost and the use. At the same time, the upcoming automated service
provisions, e-learning, e-consultancy, etc., can be used to provide more efficient and less
costly services.
2.5.2 Education
A radical change in the education policy is necessary to overcome the current regional disparities
observable in Primary and Secondary education.
Currently, the primary education facilities are well located covering the entire island, and within
the reach of maximum 02 km even in rural areas. The same facilities in those locations can
well serve the expected settlement distribution pattern with minimum additions and
augmentation. Yet, the qualities of those facilities are not commendable in all locations. A vast
disparity is observed between the ‘popular’ schools and the other schools. If the Government’s
‘the nearest school’ policy is to become a reality, a remarkable investment on primary education
infrastructure is essential within next ten years. This may include the reorganizing of school
buildings, spaces for curricular and co-curricular activities, sanitary facilities, teacher
accommodation facilities and utilities. In order to relieve the undue pressure built upon ‘popular
schools’ the primary schools may have to be separated from the secondary schools at any cost.
The Government’s ‘Compulsory Secondary Education’ policy will be able to be effectuated
with the wide spread of Secondary Schools available within close proximities to the main urban
areas. It is noted that the current locations of the secondary schools  are within a range of
maximum fifteen (15) kilometers from all reasonably densely populated areas and thus, cover
the entire island, with a satisfactory mobility of the students. Similar to the primary schools,
the disparities noticeable among ‘urban’ and ‘non-urban’ schools shall be eradicated within
next ten years for a better educated future generation and a fair distribution of education facilities
among all schools is essential towards that end. The currently evident undue interferences
from various parties into schools’ matters may lead into a more sustainable use of Secondary
Education.
The tertiary education is increasingly in demand. The available state universities and the non-
government degree awarding institutions may need to increase their capacities to cater to the
emerging demand. For the establishment of new universities and other institutions as well as
for the expansion of the existing ones, the agglomerations identified within this plan are
proposed. Most of the major urban areas do have universities and other tertiary education
facilities, but for future establishments and extensions the  location within close proximities
to Mirigama, Dambulla, Mahiyangana, Wellawaya and Puttalam shall be considered, both as
means to create positive externalities and  thereby to boost local economies, and to get those
educational institutions to be served by the readily proposed infrastructure.
V ocational training will be high in demand, provided the existence of the need for technically
qualified labour force to engage in future employment opportunities. It is observed that all
Metro Regions and Main Cities identified in the Section 5.2 of this  report, already have
Technical and V ocational Training Institutes. The facilities in those locations shall be improved
to provide state-of the art vocational training for the emerging labour force.
Educaton

<!-- page 38 -->

38A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.5.3 Health
Similar to the education infrastructure, the health sector facilities too is well covered through
the entire island by maintaining a hierarchical structure and appropriately located within
reasonable range of reach from all areas of the island. The quality and the state of infrastructure
needs improvements for better services.
Deviating from the current administrative district based distribution, Dambulla, Embilipitiya,
Mahiyangana and Wellawaya hospitals shall be upgraded to higher grade facilities (equal to
General Hospital) in order to serve the envisaged settlement  distribution pattern. At the same
time, in addition to Colombo, four National level health establishments are proposed at
Trincomalee, Anuradhapura, Matara, Ampara and Kilinochchi.
2.5.4 Administration
Administration services play a significant role in attracting people and activating urban areas.
The current administrative divisions and the hierarchy can be observed as descending from the
British Introduced administration structure. This may need a change within next ten years for
the betterment of the proposed settlement development strategy. This Plan proposes to shift
the current District Administrative functions from Matale to Dambulla, from Badulla to
Wellawaya and from Jaffna to Kilinochchi respectively, in near future, in order to discourage
further agglomerations in the current locations because of their low carrying capacities, and
to promote attractions in the new locations.
2.6 Industrial Developments
2.6.1 The Objective
Development of manufacturing sector has been at the focus of many consecutive
governments in Sri Lanka, and Industrial Development Policies have been formulated on
several occasions in the past. Several institutions, Industrial Estates, Exclusive Export
Processing Zones and Industrial Clusters have been formulated and are in operation.
Still, under the current situation, most of them operate in isolation and a comprehensive
policy to guide industrial developments is yet to be formulated. Therefore, as guiding
principles to address the physical development concerns in a future industrial development
policy, the following objectives are suggested:
2.6.1.1 More leverage on Knowledge Base and Value Adding
It is widely accepted that the knowledge and innovation based industries and value adding
industries will be the thrust areas of future economic development in Sri Lanka.
Capitalizing upon the educated high quality labour force along with the strategic
geographic positioning of the island, and exploiting the opportunities provided by the
technological advancements and the emerging geo-political affairs, industries associated
with Information Technology, Nano Technology, Genetic Technology, Aero Technology,
Bio- Medical Technology, etc., and innovative value additions shall be given high priority.
2.6.1.2 Promoting Non-polluting industries
Manufacturing Industries contribute the largest share to Greenhouse gas emissions. The
modern innovation based industries can lead to ‘Zero Emission’ status, by adopting
efficient housekeeping and automation strategies.
However, Sri Lanka will not be able to totally free from heavy and lightweight
manufacturing industries until 2050. Therefore, such industries shall still remain
maintaining the permitted emission levels, adopting non-polluting technologies, standard
industrial practices, etc. The manufacturing industries shall be promoted to adopt emerging
concepts such as the ‘systems symbiosis’, ‘Industrial Ecology’, ‘Eco-industrial parks’,
etc, in the planning and designing of them.
Health
Administration
Industrial
Development

<!-- page 39 -->

39AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.6.1.3 Best use of the available port infrastructure
Industrial locations highly depend upon the availability of infrastructure. The large scale
assembling and yard facilities, associated with imports and exports shall gain the
advantages of the main sea ports in order to minimize the transportation costs and impacts
on the environment. Other large scale industries shall be concentrated into designated
areas for the efficient and economical provision of environmental infrastructure,
integration of services to the establishments, and to avoid negative externalities resulting
from them.
2.6.1.4 Preserving traditional Industries
Traditional industries and domestic industries shall be preserved and supported for long
term sustenance. They need to be addressed through a separate policy strategy along with
the other factors associated with them, notwithstanding the objectives of the National
Physical Planning Policy.
2.6.2. Concentration within Development Corridors:
In order to ensure the settlement distribution pattern, the main employment generating major
industrial developments are proposed to be concentrated within the proposed Development
Corridors. The East- West Development Corridor can trigger future economic development in
Sri Lanka by exposing it to numerous opportunities provided through the two sea ports located
in Colombo and Trincomalee. Making best use of the available transport infrastructure, available
land and the human resources, a larger share of industrial activities and thus, a large quantum of
future employment opportunities can be generated within this Corridor.
With the available and proposed infrastructure and land availability, the locations  identified for
Manufacturing Sector industries are Horana, Ragama, Ekala, Biyagama, Katunayake, Mirigama,
Alawwa, Kurunegala, Ibbagamuwa, Dambulla, and Trincomalee. These locations already have
designated Industrial Estates which can be expanded to accommodate demands for manufacturing
industrial establishment up to 2030.
Depending on the availability of water resources, large scale industrial developments are also
proposed in other three Development Corridors, mainly associated with the sea port
developments at Hambantota, Ampara and Kilinochchi.
2.6.3 Special Zones for Innovation Based Industries
The innovative industries which can be regarded as the booster of the economy of Sri Lanka are
proposed to be accommodated within close proximities to the existing Universities for the
mutual benefits of research and development. Colombo Tech-city project which is underway
can be a catalyst for such developments in the Western  region.  Similar  Techno-Park
developments  are  proposed  within  close  proximities   to Kurunegala (associated with the
Wayamba University), and Trincomalee (associated with the Eastern University).
2.6.4 Pr ocessing and Value Adding Industries
Related to agriculture and non-conventional plantations, farming and fisheries development,
large scale value adding industrial developments estates are proposed in Colombo- Negombo
area, Mirigama, Kurunegala, Dambulla, and Trincomalee in the Main Development Corridor,
Kilinochchi in the Northern Development Corridor, Embilipitiya  and Hambantota in the
Southern Development Corridor and Ampara in Eastern Development Corridor. In addition to
them, Anuradhapura, Vauniya, Mannar, Mahiyangana and Wellawaya will be the other locations
those could accommodate large scale agro based processing and value adding industrial
developments.
Innovation
Industries
Value Adding
Iindustries

<!-- page 40 -->

40A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.6.5 Containing Heavy Industries closer to Ports
For heavy industries and assembling plants the vicinities of Trincomalee and Hambantota sea
ports are the best identified locations. Since a majority of the high-tech, large scale industries
within the foreseeable future will be based on imported materials, and they will be mostly
targeting to be exported to external markets, they will naturally be benefited by locating close
to ports. Heavy industries shall not be located at internal locations in order to ensure
environmental conservation and to prevent other negative consequences.
Supporting the port-proximity policy, the logistics related industries will be able to thrive at
locations between Colombo-Negombo area, Trincomalee - Kanthale area and Hambantota-
Suriyawewa area.
2.7 Agriculture and Plantations
2.7.1 Objectives
In spite of the relatively lower contribution expected from the agriculture and plantations to
the future economic development of Sri Lanka, the important goals of food security, resilience
to climate change effects, and the conservation of bio diversity necessitates a due regard for
these sectors in the formulation of physical development planning policies. Therefore, the
following strategies are proposed with the objectives of self-sufficiency in essential food
items, conservation of critical environmental resources, and preserving long lived traditions
and their continuity for future generations.
In a National and Sctoral Level Plan prepared for the development of Agriculture and Plantations
the following shall be given due consideration:
2.7.2 Low human engagement
In the light of food security and preservation of traditional framing culture, due consideration
shall continue on this sector. However, since the population directly engaged in agriculture is
expected to reduce from the present thirty percent (30%) to twenty percent (20%) by 2030,
rapid modernization and technological interventions, but without compromising the traditional
practices, is important. While there is a need for the formation of modern farmer communities,
technology improvement, training and service proving programmes implemented by respective
authorities, such activities shall be supported as part of the regional extensions of proposed
Metro Regions and the Main Cities.
2.7.3 Effective use of land
According to statistics, the total land extent under cultivation, both paddy farming and the
highland cultivations is around one million seventy thousand (1.7 million Ha), which is close
to one quarter (25%) of the total land extent. The statistics also show that cultivated lands have
been increased over last decade by about 15%. This figure draws attention to two serious
concerns: The first is that the additional land for agriculture is supplied essentially from forest
areas and reserves, which is not a positive sign. The second is  that the food production within
the same period is not proportionate with the increase,  and lead to the question of productivity.
Therefore, a mechanism for the allocation and close monitoring of agricultural lands,
effectuated at the Divisional Secretariat levels, is essential for the benefit of the entire nation.
2.7.4 Conservation of agricultural lands in urban areas
The agricultural lands, including paddy fields and plantations, in urban areas are increasingly
demanded for physical developments. Even though agricultural uses are not economically viable
in urban settings, the respective Urban Development Plans shall evaluate the non-market based
benefits that they provide such as the continuity of the eco-system services, drainage, reduction
of urban heat island formation and the maintenance of wind corridors, need for public open
spaces, unique natural beauty of the locations, etc.
Heavy Industries
Agriculture and
Plantations
Low Human
Engagement
Effective use of
land
Conservation
Agriculture

<!-- page 41 -->

41AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.7.5 High quality plantations
Even though the conventional Tea, Rubber and Coconut plantations were the main contributors
to foreign earnings, their role is gradually becoming insignificant in the light  of other non-
conventional exports. The current issues pertaining to Tea and Rubber Plantations such as the
shortage of labour, competition emerging from other producers, sinking markets due to
alternatives, etc, do not warrant Sri Lanka to continue those plantations in the same traditional
phase. Instead, high quality production can only be promoted.
2.7.6 Reforestation of the Central Fragile Area
Due to the environmental issues associated with high elevation Tea plantations, and also due to
the need for conservation of the Central Fragile Area, this Plan proposes to transform the non-
performing plantations into non-commercial forest plantations and non- conventional export-
crops. It is proposed to reduce the extents of land used for Tea Plantations in the elevations
above 300 meters to 01% between 2020-2050. The low country plantations may remain, but
with stringent regulations to ensure the use of appropriate lands.
2.7.7 Urban forests
The agricultural lands and the rubber plantations within the proposed Development Corridors
may be demanded for alternative developments in future. Even though they will not be highly
productive, they shall be thoroughly evaluated case by case in terms of their contribution to
the sequestration of carbon emissions, reducing atmospheric temperature, and the aesthetically
pleasing environments they provide, as against the market value of such lands, and then put into
most effective uses through the Development Plan  prepared for respective local areas. In
general, at least sixty percent (60%) of these lands in urban environments are proposed to be
preserved to meet the National Forestry improvement targets as set by the UN REDD
Programme (2016).
2.7.8 Preserving Coconut plantations
The coconut plantations will need to be protected to a large extent as the demand is unlikely to
sink until 2030. The fragmentation and the conversion of the estates need to be addressed with
proper alternative economic measures. The current policy  of approving the fragmentation of
plantations less than ten acres need to be revisited in this regard.
2.8 Fisheries
2.8.1 Objectives
The Ten Year Development Policy Framework of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Sector
2007 – 2016(2007) is the existing plan for fisheries sector development.  It provided strategies
and actions needed in support of the following sector policies in order to achieve targets.
1. Improve the nutritional status and food security of the people by increasing the
national fish production
2. Minimize post-harvest losses and improve quality and safety of fish products to
acceptable standards
3. Increase employment opportunities in fisheries and related industries and improve the
socio-economic status the fisher community
4. Increase foreign exchange earnings from fish products
5. Conserve the coastal and aquatic environment.
High Quality
Plantatons
Reforestation of
Central Fragile
Area
Urgan Forests
Preserving
Coconut
Plantations
Development of
Fisheries &
Aquatic
Resources

<!-- page 42 -->

42A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
The National Fisheries Sector Development Strategy 2010-2013 was a short term plan  for
fishery sector development. The areas focused in the strategy are as follows:
1. Increased annual per capita fish consumption of 21.9 kg by 2013;
2. Increased local fish production. It has been targeted to double the national fish
production of the base year by 2013;
3. Established price competiveness by means of promoting marketing;
4. Adopt measures for fisheries social development through fisheries development;
5. Implementation and management of fisheries sustainably by using novel techniques
and responding to international treaties on Law of the Sea.
The period of validity of these plans have already lapsed by now, but an assessment on the
accomplishments of the objectives is yet to be reviewed and a new plan is yet to be developed.
In a future plan for the development of the fisheries sector in Sri Lanka, the following items
shall be given due consideration:
2.8.2. Improvements to existing infrastructure
The existing coastal and off-shore fishing infrastructure including the main fisheries harbors,
boat anchoring points, collection centers storage and the training facilities well covers the
entire coastal region of the island. Yet, they shall have immediate and heavy improvements in
order to modernize the fisheries sector as well as to uplift the quality of life of the communities
engaged in fishing. New establishments can be considered only after 2030.
2.8.3 Space for post harvesting management, processing and value addition
In order to support efficient management of the fish harvest and, add value to fish harvests,
necessary facilities such as the processing plants, packaging units and cold storage facilities
shall be provided in major centres such as Colombo, Negombo, Beruwala, Trincomalee, Galle,
Matara, Tangalle, Hambantota, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu, Batticaloa, Oluvil and Kalpitiya.
2.8.4 Development of the Inland fishing
The inland fishing shall be developed with major reservoirs, but the limitations in inland fish
breeding activities shall be well considered before selection of such locations.
2.9.  Digital Infrastructure
2.9.1 Objective
At a time that the entire world is transforming into an internet and smart era, Sri Lanka  too has
to equip its national, regional and local systems of  planning,  administration, public relations,
communications, internal and international affairs with state-of-the art digital infrastructure.
While a few national level initiatives and programmes are already in place, the following are
specially noted for their importance for the implementation of the National Physical Planning
Policy.
2.9.2 Spatial Data Infrastructure
Spatial information is a fundamental requirement for all levels of planning, implementation
monitoring and enforcement. With the advancement of technology, spatial information in digital
form is in great demand for fast, reliable, precise and cost-effective applications in all type of
work. Currently several state sector organizations use digital spatial information, but
unfortunately these databases are designed and maintained for specific purposes by individual
organizations. They are not widely shared for reasons such as the authorship, inflexibility,
Improvement of
Fisheries
Infrastructure
Harvest
Management
Development of
Inland Fisheries
Digital
Infrastuture

<!-- page 43 -->

43AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
bureaucracy, etc. A national level authority for collection andupdating, verification and cording,
dissemination and coordination of spatial information is a timely need of the nation to fast
move towards all of its development goals.
The National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI), initiated by the Ministry of Digital Infrastructure
and implemented through Information and Communication Technology Agency (ICTA) is of
great value. The NSDI will be able to provide a digital platform for a variety of spatial
information, generated and updated by different institutions, for a wider range of uses for
multiple tasks by different agencies, in a standard and custom made formats. It will avoid the
duplication, reduce costs, increase the reliability and the uniformity of information, leading to
synergy between different development programmes. Therefore, strengthening the NSDI is
hereby mentioned as a priority requirement of the day.
2.9.3 Personal Data/Identity Infrastructure
Parallel to spatial information, digital personal information too has become a need of the day
to formulate efficient, cost effective and accelerated service delivery to all citizens in all
sectors including health, education, social welfare, banking, security, income tax and capacity
building.
The current electronic national identity card implemented by the Department of Personal
Registration can be regarded as a commendable beginning, but it has to fast advance into ‘digital
identity process’ to better serve both the public interest and the government objectives. The
developed ‘digital identity’ may lead to a biometric data base that will bewidely shared by
different agencies with required confidentiality, statutory arrangements and security measures
to provide medical and health services, attainment in education, defence related purposes and
access to public services. Such data base, instituted, operated and maintained by the Department
of Registration. Even though a high capital instrument will be required to install the system, it
will drastically reduce the costs annually borne by the Government on public service delivery
and increase the efficiency of the agencies.
2.10 Other Policies and Plans Available
It is observed that the following National Level Policies and Detail National Level Plans are
either published or being prepared. These plans were studied at the formulation of  the Guiding
Policies and the preparation of this National Physical Development Plan. They are mostly in
conformity with the National Physical Planning Policies, set out in the Section 03 of this
report. Therefore, the following can be considered as corresponding sector specific policies
or plans at the implementation of this Plan.
2.10.1 An action Plan for Air Quality Management - Clean Air Action Plan 2025
prepared by the Resources Management Centre (AirMAC).
2.10.2 National Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan (NBSAP) 2016-2022
Produced by Biodiversity Secretariat, Ministry of Mahaweli Development and
Environment, with Technical Assistance from IUCN, International Union for Conservation
of Nature, Sri Lanka Country Office. (May 2016)
2.10.3 National Climate Change Policy (2012) and National Disaster Management
Policy(2010)
Prepared by the National Disaster Management Plan (NDMP) - 2013-2017 by Disaster
Management Centre
Personal Data
Infrastruture
Avaliable Politices
and Plans for
Development and
Conservation

<!-- page 44 -->

44A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
2.10.4 National Policy on Elephant Conservation – 2006
Prepared by Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Environment
2.10.5 The National Policy on Wild Life Conservation – 2000
Prepared by Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Environment
2.10.6 National REDD+ Investment Framework and Action Plan (NRIFAP) 2017
By REDD+Sri Lanka National REDD+ Investment Framework and Action Plan, 2017,
Sri Lanka UN-REDD Programme.
2.10.7 Sri Lanka Tourism Strategic Plan (2017-2020)
Prepared by Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority
2.10.8 National Policy on Mineral Resources
Drafted by the NASTEC with the objectives to manage and strengthen the mineral sector
of Sri Lanka for its optimal potential, promote value addition to mineral resources of
the country, ensure environmental management within the sustainable development
framework of Sri Lanka while balancing the needs for social and economic development.
2.10.9 T elecommunication and Digital Infrastructure
Fiber optic network plan of Sri Lanka Telecom PLC
2.10.10 The National Housing Policy  (Revised in January 2019)
Prepared by the Ministry of  Housing, Construction and Cultural Affairs.
In addition to already published National Housing Policy, the intervention of the government
agencies to provide offordable housing in suitable areas for low-income and middle -
income groups in a competitive manner with the private sector is essential to achieve a
good social mix in urban areas.
2.11 Policies and Plans in Need
At the same time, it is also observed that the following areas need National Level Policies
and Plans in order to support the development envisaged in this Plan.
2.11.1 Ocean Resources Development and Marine Pollution Prevention
It is noted that most of the resources that will benefit Sri Lanka’s economic development
are in the ocean space and in order to effectively and sustainably use them a National
Policy and a Plan is a requirement.
At the same time, their reliability depends upon the long term sustenance of such
resources. The marine pollution due to shipping related activities, illegal fishing methods,
coastal pollution, disposal of land based waste, mining, etc. is a major threat to their
long existence and sustainable use. The need for a Marine Pollution Prevention Policy is
highlighted in this context.
2.11.2 Labour Resource Development
The human resource is one of the critical components for the National Development of any
nation. Yet, it is noted that the use of human resources is not effectively managed. While
there is a serious labour shortage in all categories of a few high-paying sectors (eg:
Construction, Manufacturing, Electronics, Information Technology, etc), there is an  equally
serious excess labour in informal activities (eg: Three Wheeler operations, street vending,
etc). This clearly shows a timely need for a National Level Human Resource Development
Policy and a Plan, integrated with the Education Development Plan.
Policies and Plans
Need for Future
Development

<!-- page 45 -->

45AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
3.0 The Implementation Strategy
3.1 The Objective
As stated in Chapter 01 of this report, the main objective of the National  Physical Planning
Policy is to provide a broad national level guidance for all development  agencies for the planning
and execution of development activities, which will have direct impacts upon the physical
environment of Sri Lanka and to establish facilities, amenities and service related infrastructure
incidental upon the development of the physical environment.
This National Physical Plan is the development framework derived out of the said  National
Physical Planning Policy. Since what the Plan provides is a broad-brush spatial framework, its
implementation needs both technical arrangement as well as procedural arrangement. The
following are the strategies proposed under each of them.
3.2 The Technical Arrangement
3.2.1 Detail Regional Development Plans
The main National Physical Plan shall be translated into detail Regional Development
Plans those are formulated either for Provinces or Specially Designated Regions, under
the provisions of the Town & Country Planning Ordinance(Amended Act 2000). The
following are proposed as priority Plans:
1. The East-West Development Corridor Region Development Plan
2. The Northern Development Corridor Region Development Plan
3. The Southern Development Corridor Regions Development Plan
4. The Eastern Development Corridor Region Development Plan,
5. The Greater Kandy Region Development Plan
6. The Greater Anuradhapura Region Development Plan
7. The Nine Main City Regions Development Plans
8. The Central Fragile Area and Sensitive Area Conservation Plan
9. Forest, Wildlife and Bio-diversity conservation Plan
10. The Water Cascading System Rehabilitation Plan
The above Plans shall be developed either by the National Physical Planning Department
or the Urban Development Authority, who are the agencies vested with powers for the
purpose and have the capacity to prepare Development Plans, in the present day context.
If any other agency undertakes to prepare such plans both the National Physical Planning
Department and the Urban Development Authority shall be integrated into the Plan
Preparation Process, in order to ensure a smooth flow of work, high level of conformity
and minimum deviations.
Since most of the areas earmarked for the above regions cut across different administrative
Provinces of Sri Lanka a high level coordination among provincial administrative and
political authorities is essential for the preparation and implementation of these plans.
The NPPD is hereby proposed to be given the authority to coordinate this activity.
3.2.2 Detail Local Development Plans
The Local Area Development Plans are currently prepared by the Urban Development
Authority under the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Law of 1978 and
subsequent amendments or the National Physical Planning Department under the
Provisions of the Town & Country Planning Ordinance (Amended Act 2000) or the
development agencies authorized to formulate such plans. The Development Projects
are designed and executed by sector specific development agencies as per the provisions
of the respective legislations.
Implementations
Regional
Development
Plans
Local
Development
Plans

<!-- page 46 -->

46A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Hereby it is proposed that all of the above mentioned Development Plans and Projects
shall strictly adhere to the framework set out by this National Physical Plan, and if there
will be any deviation required for compelling reason, such deviation shall be subject to
the review by the Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee (stated in Section 2.3.3
below) and approved by the National Physical Planning Council (stated in Section 6.3.1
below).
3.2.3 Amendments to the Policy and the Plan
A full scale review of the National Physical Planning Policy and the Plan proposed herein
is a requirement at the end of ten years (in 2028), in order to assess the level of
implementation, its achievements and the needy amendments.
The process involved in the amendment is given in the Section 01 of this report.
The review shall be initiated by the National Physical Planning Department under the
guidance of the Technical Advisory Committee, appointed for purpose, and with the
collaboration of all stakeholders. In doing that the four main guiding policies mentioned
in section 03 of this report in order to guide all physical planning and development
activities shall continue as the core elements, while there shall be many timely integrations
for the betterment of the policy and the plan.
3.3 The Procedural Arrangement
3.3.1 Annual Progress Reviews by the National Physical Planning Council chaired by
the Head of the State.
Section 3 (1) of the Town & Country Planning Ordinance (Amendment Act 2000),
provides for the establishment of the ‘National Physical Planning Council’ as the supreme
body to direct the preparation and the implementation a National Physical Planning Policy
and the Plan. By providing the ‘Head of the State’ to be the Chairman of the Council and
nominating the Secretaries of relevant key Ministries and the Chief Ministers of the
Provinces to the said Council, the National Physical Planning Policy and the Plan has
been provided with the required legitimacy and the supremacy.
The successful implementation and the monitoring of the Plan needs annual (or mere
frequent) review of the progress for its achievements by the Inter-Ministerial Coordination
Committee (stated in Section 6.3.3), submitted for the approval of the Council. Such
reviews and the feedback by the Committee, submitted to the Council and the necessary
directives by the Council will enable to initiate corrective measures and the needy regular
updates to the Plan by the National Physical Planning Department.
3.3.2 Undertaking by the National Planning Department to prioritize the fund
allocation for developments in line with this Plan.
The formulation and the implementation of the National and Regional Level projects
depends very much upon the funds received from the Government Treasury. Within the
current arrangement, the annual budgetary allocations as well as the foreign aids for
projects and programmes are channeled through the approvals of the National Planning
Department. In that context, the National Planning Department has the most control
upon the effectuation of the National Physical Planning Policy and the implementation
of the Plan set out in this report.
The National Planning Department is suggested to be a key undertaker of the Plan, with
the National Physical Planning Department.
Local
Development
Plans
National Planning
Department
National Physical
Planning Coucil

<!-- page 47 -->

47AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Direct investments by the private contributions are usually reviewed through respective
Development Agencies such as the Urban Development Authority, Forest Conservation
Department, Local Authorities, Coast Conservation Department, Agrarian Services
Department, Lands Commissioners Department, Road Development Authority and the
Central Environmental Authority. Therefore, in order to assure compliance of such
projects to the National Physical Plan these organizations shall be made key  stakeholders
of the National Physical Planning Policy.
3.3.3 Annual Meetings of the Inter Ministerial Coordination Committee for
continuity and consistence.
The establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee, provided in the said
Town & Country Planning Ordinance (Amendment Act 2000), with the objective stated
in the Section 4 A (1). As per the provision the Annual (or more frequent) meetings of
this Committee will be essential to exchange views and comments between development
agencies on the upcoming needs and the newly emerging requirements of those agencies,
as well as the needy and timely updates to the National Physical Plan.
The recommendations made by this Committee from time to time shall be internally
reviewed by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC, as appointed under the provisions
of Section 5 C of the said Act of 2000) and presented for the approval by the National
Physical Planning Council.
3.3.4 Development of the Capacities of the Implementation Units of the Provincial
Councils and the Local Authorities
As stated earlier, the implementation of the National Physical Plan has to be  implemented
through the National, Regional and Local Level Plans, prepared by different agencies.
While the National level organizations such as the Urban Development Authority, Central
Environmental Authority and the Road Development Authority possess the required
technical capabilities and financial capacities to undertake such implementations, the
Provincial Councils and the Local Authorities currently do not have such capabilities.
This is crucial because most of the ‘un-coordinated’, ‘unplanned’ and ‘ad-hoc’ developments
are presently taking place all over the island, threatening to the environmental
sustainability, leading to the questions of economic feasibility and against wider social
acceptability, either with the blessings of the Provincial Councils and the Local Authority
Councils or without their knowledge.
The main reason behind this disjointed implementation is the absence of planning
environments and the technically qualified staff to engage in them, in the agencies at
those levels to read, comprehend and to convince the administrative and political
authorities in them on the planning policies and the plans.
In order to overcome this obstacle and strengthen these two levels, it is proposed to
appoint qualified ‘Town Planners’ at the Provincial Councils and the Local Authorities,
assigned with the task of translating the National Level Planning Policies into Local
level Projects and Programs as well as to integrate the Local Level requirements into
National  Level Plans and Policies. The Local Authorities and the Provincial Councils
may assess the requirements to establish enabling planning environments in them with
the support of the relevant Ministry.
Inter-Ministrial
Coordination
Committee
Provincial and
Local
Governments

<!-- page 48 -->

48A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
3.3.5 Establishment of the caretaker and whistle-blower group to ensure consistency.
In addition to the formal procedural measures stated above, a ‘Caretaker Group’ of the
National Physical Plan is proposed with the objective of providing  community
engagement for the implementation of the Plan. The Group may be established through
formal means, but act as an open informal association of the interested parties including
Non-Governmental Organizations, Student Associations, Media Organizations and other
V olunteers.
The Caretakers will have frequent dialogues with the National Physical Planning
Department, National Planning Department and other relevant organizations on any
observations and objections on deviations and improvements to the Policy and the Plan.
The Group shall be empowered to blow whistles at any occasion when they observe
major deviations from the Plan and anything inconsistent with the Policy.
Vigilant Groups

<!-- page 49 -->

49AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Table 01: Divisional  Secretary Divisions  (DSD)  coming under the Proposed Development Corridors
Development Corridor/Metr o DS Divisions
Regions/Main City DSD falls within the immediate DSD falls within the Periphery
zone of the Corridor zone of the Corridor
 (within 10 Km) (within 10 - 20 Km)
             East West Corridor
1 Colombo Metro Region Colombo, Thimbirigasyaya, Sri Homagama, W attala, Ja – Ela,
Jayawardhanapura Kotte, Dehiwala, Kaduwela,
Maharagama ,  Kolonna, Kelaniya,
Ratnmalana, Moratuwa, Kesbewa,
Biyagama, Mahara,
2 Negombo Katunayaka Katana, Negombo , Wennappuwa
Metro Region
3 Gampaha Metro Region Gampaha, Minuwangoda, Divulapitiya,
Attanagalla, Dompe
4 Mirigama - Warakapola Meerigama, Warakapola, Narammala Ruwanwella, Galigamuwa, Pannala
5 Kurunegala Metro Region Kurunegala, Mallawapitiya, Bamunakotuwa, Ganewatta, Pallepola,
Mawathagama, Maspotha, Yatwatta, Matale,
Weerambugedara, Ibbagamuwa,
Rideegamuwa
6 Polgahawela - Alawwa Polgahawela, Alawwa Narammala, Rabukkana, Kuliyapitiya
East, Kegalle
7 Dambulla Metro Region Dambulla, Galewela, Palugaswewa, Polpithigama, Kekirawa, Palagala,
8 Hingurakgoda, Medirigiriya
9 Trincomalee Metro Region Kanthale, Kinniya, Thambalagamuwa, Kuchchaveli,  Morawewa, Muttur,
Trincomalee Town & Gravets,
10 Kalutara - Beruwala Kalutara, Beruwala Mathugama, Dodangoda, Millaniya
11 Panadura - Horana Panadura, Bandaragama, Horana
Northern Corridor
12 Jaffna Metro region Jaffna, Nallur, Thenmaradchi, Valikamam North, Valikamam South,
Pachchilaipalli, V alikamam South-West, Valikamam
West, Island South, Karainagar,
Karaveddy, Kayts, Kopay Vadamaradchy
East, Vadamaradchy North,
13 Paranthan Kandavalai
14 Killinochchi Karachchi Part of Oddusudan DSD

<!-- page 50 -->

50A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Southern Corridor
15 Galle Metro Region Akmeemana, Galle Four Gravets, Hikkaduwa, Yakkalamulla
Habaraduwa, Weligama, Imaduwa,
Bope-Poddala,
16 Matara Metro Region Devinuwara, Dickwella, Matara Four Part of Akuresa, Athuraliya,
Gravets, Welipitiya, Malimbada, Kamburupitiya, Kirinnda-Phulwella
Thihagoda
17 Tangalle - Beliatta Beliatta, Tangalle Hakmana, Weeraketiya, Okewela
18 Embilipitiya metro Region Embilipitiya Sewanagala
19 Hambanthota Metro Region Ambalantota, Hambantota, Agunukolapeles, Lunugamvehera
Sooriyawewa
20 Thissamaharama - Part of Katharagama and
Kataragama Tissamaharama
Eastern Corridor
22 Batticaloa Metro Region Eravur Town, Kattankudy, Manmunai Manmunai West, EravurPattu,
North, Manmunai P. (Araipattai),
23 Kalmunei Metro Region Kalmunai Muslim, Kalmunai Tamil, Navithanveli,  Porativu Pattu,
Karaitheevu, Manmunai S.
and Eruvilpattu, Sainthamarathu
24 Ampara Metro Region Ampara, Part of Uhana
25 samanthurei Ninthavur, Samanthurai
26 Akkareipattu Addalachchenai , Akkareipattu
27 Valachchena Koralai Pattu (Valach.),Korale Pattu Koralai Pattu Central, Koralai Pattu
West South
28 Other areas Eragama, Manmunai.S, Alayadiwembu, Thirukkovil
Metro Regions
29 Kandy Kandy, Kundasale , Harispattuwa, Udunuwara , Yatinuwara , Akurana,
Pathadumbara Part of Pahathahewaheta
Table 01: Divisional  Secretary Divisions  (DSD)  coming under the Proposed Development Corridors
Development Corridor/Metr o DS Divisions
Regions/Main City DSD falls within the immediate DSD falls within the Periphery
zone of the Corridor zone of the Corridor
 (within 10 Km) (within 10 - 20 Km)

<!-- page 51 -->

51AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
30 Anuradhapura Nuwaragampalatha East, part of Rambewewa, Thalawa, Thirappane, part
Mihinthale & Nuwaragampalatha of Mihinthale & Nuwaragampalatha
Central , Nochchadoowa  Central
Main Cities
31 Mahiyanganaya Part of Mahiyanganaya DS & Minipe DS
32 Mulaithive Maritimepattu W elioya
33 Mannar Mannar
34 NuwaraEliya Part of Nuwara Eliya DS
(including MC area)
35 Polonnaruwa Part of Thamankaduwa DS
36 Puttalam Puttalam
37 Rathnapura Part of Rathnapura DS & Elapatha DS
38 Vavuniya Part of Vavuniya DS &Vavuniya South DS
39 Wellawaya Ella, part of Wellawaya DS
Table 01: Divisional  Secretary Divisions  (DSD)  coming under the Proposed Development Corridors
Development Corridor/Metr o DS Divisions
Regions/Main City DSD falls within the immediate DSD falls within the Periphery
zone of the Corridor zone of the Corridor
 (within 10 Km) (within 10 - 20 Km)

<!-- page 52 -->

52A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Table 02: Proposed Urban Agglomeration Pattern - 2050
Metro Region/City/Town Approx. Present Present Expected  Expected
Area Population -  Annual Population Annual
(Sq.km) (2012) Growth (2050) Growth
Rate Rate
                   East West Corridor
1 Colombo Metro Region 740 3,039,917 0.5 3,500,000 0.4
2 Negombo-Katunayaka Metro Region 180 445,538 0.2 600,000 0.6
3 Gampaha- Weyangoda Metro Region 230 375,998 1.7 600,000 2.0
4 Kurunegala-Metro Region 1,163 517,271 1.4 1,000,000 2.5
5 Dambulla-Metro Region 1,873 326,663 1.4 500,000 1.4
6 Trincomalee Metro Region 2,595 371,882 1.7 700,000 2.3
7 Kalutara - Beruwala 149 323,732 1.3 500,000 1.4
8 Panadura - Horana 218 403,054 1.8 500,000 0.6
9 Mirigama - Warakapola 390 277,163 1.1 400,000 1.2
10 Polgahawela - Alawwa 231 128,823 1.0 200,000 1.5
11 Other Areas 300 180,000 2.0 200,000 0.3
8069 6,390,041 8,700,000
                  Northern Corridor
1 Jaffna Metro region 1,152 619,000 1,000,000 1.6
2 Paranthan 250 27,170 50,000 2.2
3 Killinochchi 523 71,359 150,000 2.9
1925 717,529 1,200,000
                   Southern Corridor
1 Galle Metro Region 141 241,305 0.6 300,000 0.6
2 Matara Metro Region 261 282,501 0.7 400,000 1.1
3 Hambanthota Metro Region 749 173,309 1.8 300,000 1.9
4 Embilipitiya metro Region 383 133,600 1.3 200,000 1.3
5 Tangalle - Beliatta 258 128,499 1.2 200,000 1.5
6 Thissamaharama- Kataragama 295 86,826 1.2 100,000 0.4
7 Other Areas 134 167,264 1.3 200,000 0.5
2221 1,213,304 1,700,000
                 Eastern Corridor
1 Batticaloa Metro Region 977 261,244 0.9 300,000 0.4
2 Kalmunei Metro Region 320 236,422 -1.7 250,000 0.2
3 Ampara Metro Region 497 75,000 0.7 150,000 2.6
4 Samanthurei 138 76,135 0.0 100,000 0.8
5 Akkareipattu 62 70,959 0.0 100,000 1.1
6 Valachchena 453 78,634 -4.9 100,000 0.3
7 Other Areas 574 82,397 -3.3 100,000 0.6
3021 880,791 1,100,000

<!-- page 53 -->

53AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
         Metro Regions
1 Kandy 430 758,863 0.9 1,000,000 0.8
2 Anuradhapura 1,670 311,798 1.4 500,000 1.6
      Main Cities
1 Mahiyanganaya 297 70,025 0.5 100,000 1.1
2 Mulaithive 785 62,000 100,000 1.6
3 Mannar 220 68,184 100,000 1.2
4 NuwaraEliya 163 92695 0.2 100,000 0.2
5 Polonnaruwa 229 80,448 0.6 100,000 0.6
6 Puttalam 182 82,443 1.6 100,000 0.6
7 Rathnapura 131 106,861 0.8 100,000 -0.2
8 Vavuniya 300 75,000 100,000 0.9
9 Wellawaya 271 71,563 1.0 100,000 1.2
10 Other Towns 5918 2540736 1.3 3,000,000 0.5
Total 18,100,000 1.0
Table 02: Proposed Urban Agglomeration Pattern - 2050
Metro Region/City/Town Approx. Present Present Expected  Expected
Area Population -  Annual Population Annual
(Sq.km) (2012) Growth (2050) Growth
Rate Rate
Annexure 1: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions coming under the Central Fragile Area
Province District DSD Land Extent
(km 2)
1 Uva Badulla Badulla 49.29
2 Bandarawela 70.06
3 Ella 109.37
4 Haldummulla 415
5 Hali Ela 170.14
6 Haputhale 70.33
7 Kandaketiya 152.62
8 Lunugala 141.81
9 Meegahakiwula 108.72
10 Passara 137.28
11 Rideemaliyadda 135.92
12 Soranathota 438.28
13 Uva Paranagama 80.89
14 Welimada 193.9
15 Moneragala Badalkumbura 235.99
16 Bibile 483.52
17 Madulla 722.52

<!-- page 54 -->

54A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
18 Medagama 241.14
19 Moneragala 292.54
20 Southern Galle Neluwa 152.29
21 Thawalama 174.15
22 Matara Kotapola 179.33
23 Pasgoda 153.94
24 Pitabeddara 136.56
25 Western Kalutara Palindanuwara 283.23
26 Central Kandy Akurana 30.32
27 Delthota 51.17
28 Doluwa 100.17
29 Ganga Ihala Korale 88.92
30 Kandy Four Gravets & Gangawata Korale 50.07
31 Harispattuwa 64.96
32 Hatharaliyadda 58.69
33 Kundasale 80.82
34 Medadumbara 190.35
35 Minipe 249.28
36 Panwila 91.95
37 Pasbage Korale 121.9
38 Pathadumbara 48.96
39 Pathahewaheta 83.5
40 Poojapitiya 58.34
41 Thumpane 49.93
42 Udadumbara 90.6
43 Udapalatha 277.07
44 Udunuwara 67.23
45 Yatinuwara 69.79
46 Matale Ambanganga Koralaya 55.38
47 Dambulla 455.13
48 Galewela 198.6
49 Laggala - Pallegama 373.84
50 Matale 72.9
51 Naula 285.17
52 Pallepola 81.54
53 Rattota 105.23
54 Ukuwela 77.91
55 Yatawatta 65.62
56 Nuwara Eliya Ambagamuwa 487.91
57 Hanguranketha 228.62
58 Kothmale 223.72
Annexure 1: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions coming under the Central Fragile Area
Province District DSD Land Extent
(km 2)

<!-- page 55 -->

55AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
59 Nuwara Eliya 483.57
60 Walapana 321.52
61 Sabaragamuwa Kegalle Aranayaka 124.42
62 Bulathkohupitiya 127.25
63 Dehiowita 193.24
64 Deraniyagala 222.08
65 Galigamuwa 127.5
66 Kegalle 109.06
67 Mawanella 1 14.9
68 Rambukkana 130.33
69 Yatiyantota 178.07
70 Rathnapura A yagama 157.69
71 Balangoda 274.16
72 Ehaliyagoda 141.93
73 Elapatha 86.85
74 Godakawela 155.75
75 Imbulpe 255.26
76 Kahawatta 102.68
77 Kalawana 384.75
78 Kiriella 79.57
79 Kolonna 183.03
80 Kuruwita 174.67
81 Nivithigala 157.91
82 Opanayake 75.88
86 Pelmadulla 144.84
84 Ratnapura 326.79
85 Weligepola 203.53
86 North Western Kurunegala Mawathagama 109.62
87 Rideegama 222.54
Annexure 2: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions and other information coming under the Coast
Conservation Zone
District DS Divisions No. of GNDs Area within
a limit of 300
meters
landward
(km2)
Colombo Colombo 9 2.89
Thimbirigasyaya 6 2.01
Dehiwala - Mount Laviniya 2 0.45
Annexure 1: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions coming under the Central Fragile Area
Province District DSD Land Extent
(km 2)

<!-- page 56 -->

56A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Moratuwa 15 3.18
Rathmalana 4 1.49
Gampaha Negambo 27 1 1.03
Wattala 6 5.61
Katana 10 9.2
Kalutara Panadura 13 2.46
Kalutara 12 3.83
Beruwala 18 4.08
Galle Benthota 10 3.24
Balapitiya 13 3.99
Hikkaduwa 43 7.45
Galle 15 3.7
Habaraduwa 24 6.04
Ambalangoda 7 0.63
Matara Devinuwara 16 2.98
Dikwella 17 4.22
Weligama 19 5.84
Matara 10 2.87
Hambanthota T issamaharama 3 19.22
Hambanthota 10 10.31
Ambalathota 8 3.46
Tangalle 20 9.3
Mannar Mantai west 11 1 1.95
Mannar 31 28.63
Nanaddan 7 6.94
Musali 6 8.98
Puttalam V anathavillu 9 20.75
Kalpitiya 32 45.86
Puttalam 11 6.47
Mundala 11 7.35
Arachchikattuwa 6 4.3
Chilaw 8 2.92
Mahawewa 10 3.77
Nattandiya 6 1.75
Wennappuwa 10 2.9
Jaffna Pointpedro 17 6.16
Kopai 11 1 1.07
Tellippalai 7 3.95
Annexure 2: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions and other information coming under the Coast
Conservation Zone
District DS Divisions No. of GNDs Area within
a limit of 300
meters
landward
(km2)

<!-- page 57 -->

57AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Chankanai 9 5.97
Maruthankerny 16 33.85
Chavakachcheri 22 23.72
Nallur 15 6.17
Kaytes 20 16.88
Velanai 38 35.18
Sandilipay 8 3.21
Delft 6 33.21
Kilinochchi Pachchilaipallai 3 14.53
Pooneryn 7 45.35
Kandavalai 5 15.49
Mullaitivu Maritime pattu 5 29.88
Ampara Kalmunai 28 2.16
Karativu 5 0.89
Nainativu 10 2.19
Attalachena 9 2.01
Akkaraipattu 6 1.09
Alayadivembu 1 0.67
Thirukkovil 11 5.3
Potuvil 20 8.68
Lahugala 5 18.1
Sainthamaruthu 8 0.36
Batticaloa Koralai pattu north 18 31.18
Koralai pattu 7 5.22
Eravur pattu 22 7.21
Manmunai north 25 13.63
Kattankudi 8 1.23
Manmunai pattu 18 6.51
Manmunai south & eruvil 49 14.91
Trincomalee T rincomalee town & gravets 22 22.33
Thampalagamuwa 2 1.47
Muttur 10 13.24
Kinniya 9 4.58
Verugal eachchalampattu 3 8.35
Kuchchaveli 21 38.18
Annexure 2: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions and other information coming under the Coast
Conservation Zone
District DS Divisions No. of GNDs Area within
a limit of 300
meters
landward
(km2)

<!-- page 58 -->

58A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Sri Lanka’s coastal zone is defined in the Coast Conservation Act as the area lying within a limit of 300 meters landward
of the mean high water line and in the case of rivers, streams, lagoons or any other body of water connected to the sea,
either permanently or periodically, the landward boundary shall extend to a limit of 2 kilometers perpendicular to the
strait baseline drawn between the natural entrance points thereof and shall include waters of such water bodies
Annexure 03: The most important Paddy DSDs in terms of % of total land extent
DSD Name District % of DSD Name District % of
Paddy Paddy
land land
extent extent
Ampara Ampara 20 Baddegama Galle 27
Medawachchiya Anuradhapura 20 Bope-poddala Galle 27
Wattala Gampaha 20 Karaveddy Jaffna 27
Mahara Gampaha 20 V elanai Jaffna 27
Kopai Jaffna 20 Rambewa Anuradhapura 28
Beruwala Kalutara 20 Kaytes Jaffna 28
Minipe Kandy 20 Malimbada Matara 28
Ambanpola Kurunegala 20 Eravur pattu Batticaloa 29
Ganewattaa Kurunegala 20 Gampaha Gampaha 29
Wariyapola Kurunegala 20 Kalutara Kalutara 29
Kobeigane Kurunegala 20 Nikaweratiya Kurunegala 29
Weerambugedara Kurunegala 20 Kinniya T rincomalee 29
Kekirawa Anuradhapura 21 Chankanai Jaffna 30
Ambalangoda Galle 21 Kaytes Jaffna 30
Kelaniya Gampaha 21 Ambalanthota Hambanthota 31
Katupotha Kurunegala 21 Millaniya Kalutara 31
Maritime pattu Mullaitivu 21 V avuniya south V avuniya 31
Dehiattakandiya Ampara 22 Galnewa Anuradhapura 32
Kahatagasdigiliya Anuradhapura 22 Koralai pattu west Batticaloa 32
Welivitiya-divithura Galle 22 Benthota Galle 33
Ja-ela Gampaha 22 Velanai Jaffna 33
Velanai Jaffna 22 Muttur T rincomalee 33
Karachchi Kilinochchi 22 Nachchaduwa Anuradhapura 35
Galgamuwa Kurunegala 22 Nanaddan Mannar 35
Maspotha Kurunegala 22 Padawi sripura T rincomalee 36
Kamburupitiya Matara 22 Angunukolapelessa Hambanthota 37
Kalmunai Ampara 23 Maritime pattu Mullaitivu 37
Palagala Anuradhapura 23 Maritime pattu Mullaitivu 38
Giribawa Kurunegala 23 T alawa Anuradhapura 39
Polpithigama Kurunegala 23 manmunai west Batticaloa 41
Ibbagamuwa
Kurunegala 23 Karaveddy Jaffna 41
Polgahawela Kurunegala 23 Rajanganaya Anuradhapura 45
Matara Matara 23 Akkaraipattu Ampara 46
Homagama Colombo 24 Mannar Mannar 48

<!-- page 59 -->

59AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Kaytes Jaffna 24 Thihagoda Matara 48
Chavakachcheri Jaffna 24 Kandavalai Kilinochchi 49
Mathugama Kalutara 24 Manmunai South West Batticaloa 51
Mahawa Kurunegala 24 Attalachena Ampara 54
Panduwasnuwara Kurunegala 24 Thambuththegama Anuradhapura 54
Weligama Matara 24 Sammanturai Ampara 64
Kesbewa Colombo 25 Karativu Ampara 64
Sandilippai Jaffna 25 Alayadivembu Ampara 66
Ehetuwewa Kurunegala 25 Porativu pattu Batticaloa 69
Thirukkovil Ampara 26 Maritime pattu Mullaitivu 72
Galenbindunuwewa Anuradhapura 26 Nainativu Ampara 73
Bandaragama Kalutara 26 Manmunai north Batticaloa 78
Lankapura Polonnaruwa 26 Karaveddy Jaffna 96
Ipalogama Anuradhapura 27
Annexure 03: The most important Rubber DSDs in terms of % of total land extent
DSD Name District % of DSD Name District % of
Rubber Rubber
land land
extent extent
Millaniya Kalutara 16
Mawathagama Kurunegala 16
Malimbada Matara 16
Homagama Colombo 17
Yakkalamulla Galle 17
Yatawatta Matale 17
Welivitiya-divithura Galle 18
Aranayake Kegalle 20
Beruwala Kalutara 22
Ambanganga Matale 23
Ayagama Ratnapura 24
Pelmadulla Ratnapura 24
Nagoda Galle 25
Matale Matale 27
Elpitiya Galle 28
Walallawita Kalutara 28
Nivithigala Ratnapura 28
Mawanella Kegalle 29
Agalawatta Kalutara 30
Tumpane Kandy 30
Horana Kalutara 31
Kegalle Kegalle 31
Annexure 03: The most important Paddy DSDs in terms of % of total land extent
DSD Name District % of DSD Name District % of
Paddy Paddy
land land
extent extent
Warakapola Kegalle 35
Bulathsinhala Kalutara 37
Madurawela Kalutara 37
Galigamuwa Kegalle 40
Bandaragama Kalutara 42
Elapatha Ratnapura 42
Yatiyantota Kegalle 43
Kiriella Ratnapura 43
Kuruwita Ratnapura 44
Mathugama Kalutara 45
Bulathkohupitiya Kegalle 45
Palinda nuwara Kalutara 46
Deraniyagala Kegalle 49
Dodangoda Kalutara 54
Padukka Colombo 55
Hanwella Colombo 56
Ruwanwella Kegalle 58
Eheliyagoda Ratnapura 60
Dehiowita Kegalle 72

<!-- page 60 -->

60A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Annexure 03: The most important Tea DSDs in terms of % of total land extent
DSD Name District % of Tea land extent
Akmeemana Galle 10
Uda dumbara Kandy 10
Akurana Kandy 10
Imbulpe Ratnapura 10
Godakawela Ratnapura 11
Bulathkohupitiya Kegalle 12
Athuraliya Matara 12
Baddegama Galle 13
Pelmadulla Ratnapura 13
Welimada Badulla 14
Pujapitiya Kandy 14
Mulatiyana Matara 16
Ambanganga Matale 18
Pasgoda Matara 18
Hanguranketha Nuwaraeliya 19
Tawalama Galle 20
Soranathota Badulla 21
Patha hewaheta Kandy 22
Udunuwara Kandy 22
Uva paranagama Badulla 23
Meda dumbara Kandy 23
Yatinuwara Kandy 23
Walapane Nuwaraeliya 23
Kahawatta Ratnapura 23
Kotapola Matara 25
Passara Badulla 27
Ukuwela Matale 29
Pitabeddara Matara 30
Raththota Matale 32
Ella Badulla 37
Bandarawela Badulla 37
Nuwaraeliya Nuwaraeliya 40
Pasbage korale Kandy 41
Badulla Badulla 43
Hali-ela Badulla 44
Haputale Badulla 45
Ambangamuwa korale Nuwaraeliya 46
Ganga ihala korale Kandy 47
Kotmale Nuwaraeliya 48
Doluwa Kandy 52
Uda palatha Kandy 54
Panwila Kandy 61
Delthota Kandy 65

<!-- page 61 -->

61AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Annexure 03: The most important Coconut DSDs in terms of % of total land extent
DSD Name District % of Tea land extent
Kelaniya Gampaha 10
Panadura Kalutara 10
Verugal eachchalampattu Trincomalee 10
Manmunai north Batticaloa 11
Homagama Colombo 11
Kegalle Kegalle 11
Nikaweratiya Kurunegala 12
Godakawela Ratnapura 12
Ja-ela Gampaha 13
Mahara Gampaha 14
Galigamuwa Kegalle 14
Matara Matara 14
Benthota Galle 15
Mahawa Kurunegala 15
Warakapola Kegalle 16
Habaraduwa Galle 17
Minuwangoda Gampaha 17
Wattala Gampaha 17
Kirinda-puhulwella Matara 17
Bope-poddala Galle 18
Pallepola Matale 18
Rasnayakapura Kurunegala 20
Devinuwara Matara 20
Kattankudi Batticaloa 22
Hikkaduwa Galle 22
Katuwana Hambanthota 22
Kalutara Kalutara 22
Tangalle Hambanthota 23
Galle Galle 26
Dompe Gampaha 26
Weligama Matara 26
Pachchilaipallai Kilinochchi 27
Attanagalla Gampaha 28
Weeraketiya Hambanthota 28
Biyagama Gampaha 29
Beruwala Kalutara 32
Kalpitiya Puttalam 33
Puttalam Puttalam 33
Okewela Hambanthota 34
Meerigama Gampaha 36
Kalpitiya Puttalam 37
Mundala Puttalam 37

<!-- page 62 -->

62A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Ibbagamuwa Kurunegala 38
Pallama Puttalam 39
Dikwella Matara 41
Ridigama Kurunegala 42
Polgahawela Kurunegala 43
Ganewattaa Kurunegala 47
Mawathagama Kurunegala 47
Rambukkana Kegalle 50
Kurunegala Kurunegala 50
Arachchikattuwa Puttalam 50
Chilaw Puttalam 50
Negambo Gampaha 51
Kobeigane Kurunegala 51
Wennappuwa Puttalam 52
Mahawewa Puttalam 54
Alawwa Kurunegala 55
Maspotha Kurunegala 58
Nattandiya Puttalam 59
Wariyapola Kurunegala 60
Panduwasnuwara Kurunegala 60
Pannala Kurunegala 61
Divulapitiya Gampaha 62
Katana Gampaha 62
Katupotha Kurunegala 62
Mallawapitiya Kurunegala 63
Beliatta Hambanthota 65
Bingiriya Kurunegala 65
Narammala Kurunegala 66
Dankotuwa Puttalam 66
Negambo Gampaha 67
Weerambugedara Kurunegala 67
Mundala Puttalam 67
Kuliyapitiya east Kurunegala 68
Madampe Puttalam 68
Kuliyapitiya west Kurunegala 69
Udubaddawa Kurunegala 77
Kaytes Jaffna 88
Koralai pattu north Batticaloa 92
Annexure 03: The most important Coconut DSDs in terms of % of total land extent (Contd.)
DSD Name District % of Tea land extent

<!-- page 63 -->

63AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Annexure 04: The list of enactments related to the agro conservation zone .
Seed Act No 22 of 2003
Plant Protection Act, No.35 of 1999
Soil Conservation Act, No 25 of 1951 Seed Act
Soil Conservation Act, No. 24 of 1996
Control of Pesticides (Amendment) Act No. 6 of 1994
Annexure 5: The District and number of DSDs coming under the Water Conservation Zone
District No. of DSDs
Ampara 12
Anuradhapura 22
Badulla 14
Batticaloa 07
Colombo 07
Galle 17
Gampaha 13
Hambanthota 11
Jaffna 04
Kalutara 12
Kandy 19
Kegalle 11
Kilinochchi 04
Kurunegala 29
Mannar 06
Matale 11
Matara 14
Monaragala 11
Mullaitivu 07
Nuwaraeliya 05
Polonnaruwa 07
Puttalam 15
Ratnapura 17
Trincomalee 11
Vavuniya 07

<!-- page 64 -->

64A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 12.06.2019
Annexure 06: The list enactments related to the Water Conservation Zone
State Land Ordinance
Land Development Ordinance Irrigation Ordinance
Agrarian Development Act
Water Resource Development Act Forest Ordinance
Wildlife Conservation Act
National Water Supply and Drainage Board Act Soil Conservation Act
Disaster Management Act Coastal Conservation Act
Urban Development Authority Act
Land Reform Law
Acts pertaining to plantation crops including Tea/ Rubber/Coconut Mahaweli Authority Act
Annexure 07 - Policies related to the Eco Conservation Zone
Forest
National Forestry Policy – 1995
Wildlife
The National Policy on Wild Life Conservation - 2000 National Policy on Elephant Conservation – 2006
Biodiversity
National Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan 2016-2022
Fishery
The National Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Policy (2006) Coastal zone and coastal resource management plan -
2016
Air resources
National Air Quality Management Policy – 2000
Environment
National Environment Policy – 2003 National Policy on Wetlands – 2005
Mineral
National Policy on Sand as a Resource for the Construction Industry – 2006 Draft national policy on mineral
resources - 2017
06 - 752
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA