

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1613
1613
wxl 1"726 - 2011 iema;eïn¾ ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'09'30
No. 1,726 – FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1616
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1618
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th October, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd
September, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,725 of 23.09.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1614
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1615
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1616
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 31st October, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th September, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Madurawala Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Raigam Koralaya and Births and Deaths   General, District Secretariat Kalutara
  of Bellapitiya Division in Kalutara District
09–1316
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
HAMBANTHOTA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1617
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 31st October, 2011.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
08th September, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Hambantota Katuwana Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Giriwa Pattuwa North and Births and   General, District Secretariat
  Deaths of Kirama Division   Hambantota
09–1315
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 31st October, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th September, 2011.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1618
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Padaviya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Kandyan) of Hurulupalatha Division and   General, District Secretariat
  Births and Deaths of Parakramapura   Anuradhapura
  Division
09–1314
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
1ST  AND  2ND  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATIONS
AND  SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  THE
OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  FOREIGN
SERVICE – 2011
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination and the
Second Language Test for Officers in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service
will be held in Colombo and in Sri Lanka Missions abroad in
November, 2011. The oral examination will be held only in Colombo.
02. The Time Table would be prepared enabling the candidates
to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. Syllabus - Syllabus and other Provisions by which the First
and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations are governed are indicated
in the respective Service Minute.
Syllabus and other provisions for the Second Language Test are
indicated in Appendix “A” whiles   the syllabus and other provisions
for the First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers
of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service are indicated in Appendix “B”.
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar
Examinations at one or more sittings. Action will be taken to conduct
Oral Tests for the officers who sit for the Second Language Test at
the same venue at the same time.
04. Subjects for which the officers in Sri Lanka Foreign Service
should appear in the Efficiency Bar  as follows:
Sri Lanka Foreign Service
1ST EFFICIENCY BAR
Part I
Subject Subject Duration
No.  hours
01 Finance 3
02 History and Geography of Sri Lanka 3
Subject Subject Duration
No.  hours
Part II
03 Elementary Constitutional Law
and International Law 3
04 Diplomatic Practice 3
05 International Affairs 3
06 The Sri Lanka Foreign Service 3
Minute, Foreign Ministry
Regulations and Computer
Literacy
2ND EFFICIENCY BAR
Part I
21 Economic and Social Development in 3
Sri Lanka
22 Administration 3
(a) Office Systems and Organization
Methods
(b) Establishment Code
(V olume I and V olume II)
Part II
23 Elementary Constitutional Law and
International Law 3
24 Diplomatic Practice 3
25 International Affairs 3
Foreign Languages
07 Arabic 2
08 French 2
09 Russian 2
10 Spanish 2
11 Hindi 2
12 Chinese 2
13 German 2
14 Japanese 2
15 English 2
Subjects and subject numbers for the Second Language Test :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1619
Subject Subject Duration
No.  hours
30 Sinhala (Written) 2
31 Tamil (Written) 2
32 English (Written) 2
33 Sinhala (Oral)
34 Tamil (Oral)
35 English (Oral)
05. The attention of the Officers sitting these Efficiency Bar
Examination is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :-
"Departmental examination (including Promotional and
Efficiency Bar Examination).  The medium for Promotional
Examination as well as Efficiency Bar Examination should be the
language in which the officer sat the Competitive Examination to
enter the Public Service or the Official Language. In case where
initial recruitment took place without competitive examination, the
medium for Promotional/Efficiency Bar Examination should be the
language in which the officer qualified for entry into the Public
Service or the Official Language."
06 Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations for the candidates to answer the question papers in
Sinhala, Tamil or English, except for the question papers on foreign
languages. Medium applied to sit for the exam cannot be changed.
07.  If a candidate is later found to have sat in a medium in which
he/she is not entitled to sit his candidature will be cancelled.
08. Candidates should submit their applications according to
the subjoined form on A4 size paper. Both sides of the paper
should be used.  Applicants should prepare application as follows.
No. 1 – 08 should be in the first page and balance should be in the
second page. Applicants should fill the application on their own
hand writing clearly. (Applications prepared in Sinhala medium
should bear the name of the Examination in English and also
applications prepared in Tamil medium should also bear the name
of the examination in English). Applications not submit as per the
forms of specimen appended to this notification and incomplete
applications will be rejected without prior notice. Candidates
appearing for both Examinations should submit separate application
in respect of each Examination.
09. The Examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the rules
and regulations prescribed by the Commissioner General for the
conduct of the examination.
10. All applicants should send their applications to the Overseas
Administration Division of the Ministry of External Affairs to
forward them to the Commissioner-General of Examinations, on or
before 24.10.2011. (Those who are serving in Sri Lanka Missions
abroad should send their applications through the Heads of Mission.)
Any Application received after the above closing date will be rejected.
11. If a candidate does not receive his/her admission card, he/she
should communicate without delay to the Commissioner General
of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Organization &
Foreign Examinations Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.  (Telegraphic
Address "Exams" Battaramulla) informing that he/she has not
received the admission form and providing following information:-
(1) Name of Examination;
(2) Full name ;
(3) Full Postal Address ;
Those who are in close proximity to the Department of
Examinations are advised to communicate with "Organization and
Foreign Examinations Branch" of the Department of Examinations,
by coming to the Department in person.
12. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to
comply with the requirements as stipulated in paragraph 11 above
will not be entertained.
13. The following are the documents of Identity acceptable at
the examination center.
(1) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons.
(2) Valid Passport.
14. Candidates who sat for the examination for the first time are
exempted from exam fees, while in the case of subseqent sittings
fees will be levied on the following basis:
(a) First sitting (whole examination or part thereof) free of
charge;
(b) Each subsequent sitting
Rs.  c.
Complete examination 1,000.0
One Subject 500.0
Oral Test  300.0
The fees should be paid to any District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat credited to the revenue head 2003-02-13 and
the receipt should be attached to the application.
15. The decision of the Public Service Commission will be
final with regard to any matter that has not been mentioned in this
notification. The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examination will be final with regard to the examinations.
K
ARUNATHILAKA AMUNUGAMA,
Secretary / Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
23rd September, 2011.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1620
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL  AFFAIRS – SRI LANKA
                                                                For office use only
FIRST AND  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR
EXAMINATION  AND  THE   SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST
FOR  OFFICERS  IN  THE  SRI  LANKA  FOREIGN
SERVICE -2011
           Medium Sinhala- 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Please mark appropriate number in the cage).
01. (a) (i) Last name with initials :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
  (ii) Last name with initials :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals.  Put the initials after the last
name.  Eg. SILV A, A.B.)
(b) (i) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
  (ii) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
02. Address (for dispatch of admission cards) :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. Date of Birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Sex :
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage
Male – 0, Female – 1)
06. Date of appointment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service:-
Date: Month: Y ear:
07. Present post :
 08.  The name of examination  applied for
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
Exam Relevant
No.
E.B 1 1
E.B. 2 2
Second Language 3
Foreign Language 4
09. Subjects offered should be clearly stated with the subject
numbers given in Para 04 of the notification. (Applicants will
be allowed to sit for subjects indicated in the application only.)
Subject Subject No.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
10. State whether the applicant had appeared for the whole
examination or part thereof previously.  If so, state the index
number, subjects, year and month:
I declare that the information furnished above is accurate and
that I am eligible to sit for this examination in the language
medium indicated above. I abide by the rules and regulations
laid down by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
The receipt No: ……………. for payment of examination fee
is annexed.
Fee paid:  Rs……………
––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Original Receipt should be pasted here
Commissioner-General of examinations,
Forwarded –
I do hereby certify that the information furnished above is
accurate and that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................... is eligible to appear
for this examination to the medium indicated by him/her. I also
attest the applicant’s signature.
–––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of the
   Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––.
APPENDIX "A"
Sinhala
The Test in Sinhala will consist of a Written and an Oral part.
The written paper will be of two hours duration and will contain
questions on :
(i) Grammer,
(ii) Translation of petitions or Gramaseva Niladari reports
written in Sinhala into English,
(iii) Translation of an official document in English into Sinhala.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1621
The Oral Test will consist of the followings :
(i) Interpretation in Sinhala contents of an official document
written in English so that the passage can be understood
and taken down in writing by a Sinhala speaking person,
(ii) Reading a petition in Sinhala,
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation . – The purpose of the
test will be to assess the candidates’ power of
understanding Sinhala Language as it is spoken by
different native speakers and of making himself/herself
understood both in common conversation and in the usual
course of official business.
Tamil
The Test of Tamil Language will consist of a written and an oral
section.
The written paper which will be of two hour duration, will
contain questions on :
(i) Grammar,
(ii) Translation of petitions or Gramaseva Niladhari reports
written in Tamil into English,
(iii) Translation of an official letter or document in written
English into Tamil.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(i) Interpretation in Tamil contents of an official document
written in English so that the passage can be understood
and taken down in writing by a Tamil speaking person,
(ii) Reading of a petition in Tamil,
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation . – The purpose of the
test will be to assess the candidates’ power of
understanding Tamil of different native speakers and of
making himself/herself  understand both in common
conversation and in the usual course of official business.
English
The English paper will be of two hour duration and will contain
questions on :
(i) Grammar ;
(ii) Comprehension ;
(iii) Précis writing ;
(iv) Report and letter writing ;
(v) V ocabulary.
A prototype of the question paper is furnished below for the
information of candidates:-
Part A
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb given within
brackets :-
During the last war our country …………1. (be) a British
Colony …………….2. (take) a full part in the war effort.
Consequently our tea, rubber and coconut ……….. 3. (ship) to
Britain at very favourable prices and the foreign exchange we
…………. 4. (earn) ……………5. (accumulate) as assets.  Again
during the Korean war in the early fifties our products …………..
6. (fetch) good prices and we ……………..7. (not have) any exchange
problem.  However, political independence ……….. 8. (not given
rise) to any effort to …………….9. (build up) our economy we
……………….10. (be) a nation of consumers and we ……………11.
(Squander) our foreign exchange on consumer goods which
……………….. 12. (can produce) locally and incidentally
diversified our economy.  Over the last decade we ………… 13.
(begin) to feel the pinch when our primary products ……………
14 (fail) to command good prices in the world market while our
requirements of food both rice and subsidiary food stuffs …………..
15. (rise) in price.
(b) Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition (where necessary)
As Assistant Secretary …………… 16. charge …………… 17.
subjects, it was my duty to convene groups of officers dealing
………… 18. different aspects of development work in the
Ministry ………. 19. time to time.  They discussed ………… 20.
various problems that they confronted and which they could not
cope ……… 21. on their own.  We were thus able to share our
experience ……… 22. each other and make concrete proposals
……….. 23.  the Secretary every month.  He in turn put ……….
24. his own plans for discussion ……………. 25. these meetings.
(c) Underline the correct letters given within brackets that would
complete the spelling of the following words.
26. har……………… ment (rass/as/ass).
27. ember…………… (rass/as/ass).
28. tol………….. (arreance/erance/erence).
29. Par…………..arian (liament/limen/liment).
30. bal……………ing (let/lat/lot).
31. itin………… (erary/arary/erarie)
32. Pers…………… (everance/everence/ewerence).
33. bour…………… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy).
34. prolet …………. (ariet/ariat/eriyat).
35. Com……………… ate (memorr/emor/memor).
(d) In each of the following statements underline the correct word
within brackets:-
36. The inventory was checked by the Board of (Survellance/
Survey/Surveyours).
37. At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the accused officer
had (contradicted /contravened/ contaminated) the regulations.
38. Every receipt should have a (counterfoil / counterfeit /
counterpane) for the purpose of audit.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1622
39. There was a possibility that the prosecution had (fabricated
/ fumigated / promulgate) the evidence.
40. (Discrete/Discretionary/Discriminatory) power was given to
the Head of the Department under the relevant Act.
41. The Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush until the bribe
taker arrived.
42. The entire staff turned upon (facilitate / infiltrate / felicitate )
the watcher on his retirement.
43. In times of national crisis we must avoid (luxuriant/luxurious)
habits.
44. Martial music was played over the radio during height of the
battle to keep up the (moral/morale/morals) of the people.
45. Candidates are advised to use (Stationary / Stationery)
sparingly owing to the acute paper shortage.
(e) Underline the correct phase in the brackets that means the
same as the word or phrase underlined in each sentence  :
46. In good management the boss should, support his staff in
their work (back out / back up / back away).
47. The sales and replacement of stock amounted to over
Rs. 5,000 (turn out / turn up / turn away).
48. We were warned at the start not to let out work get into
arrears (set out /outset).
49. They younger son wasted his father’s wealth in a few years
(ran over/ran through).
50. I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred me from going
(put away / put off).
Part B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the
questions set out below :
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, liberty,
constitutional government, and respect for the law or at least the
definitions of them, began with the reflection of Greek thinkers
upon the institutions of City State.  But in the long history of
political thought the meaning of such terms has been variously
modified and always that meaning has to be understood in the light
of the institutions by which the indicates were to be realized and of
the society in which those institutions did their work.  The Greek
City States was so different from the political communities in
which modern men live that it requires no small effort of the
imagination to picture its social and political life.  The Greek
Philosophers were thinking of political practices far different from
any that have prevailed commonly in modern world, and the whole
climate of opinion in which the work was done was different.  Their
problems though not without their analogies in the preset, were
never identical with modern problems, and the ethical apparatus by
which political life was evaluated and criticized varied widely from
any that now prevails.  In order to understand at all accurately what
their theories meant is necessary first to realize at least roughly
what kind of institutions they had in view and what citizenship
connected, as an effect and as an ideal, to the public for whom they
wrote.  For this purpose the Government of Athens-is especially
important, partly because it is the best known, but chiefly because
it was an object of special concern to the greatest of Greek
Philosophers.
As compared with modern states the ancient City-State was
exceedingly small both in area and in population.  The numbers
were exceedingly uncertain but, a figure somewhat in excess of
three hundred thousand would be approximately correct.  Such an
arrangement of a small territory dominated by a single City was
typical off the City State.
In each of the following cases, choose the alternative which in
your opinion supports the views expressed in the above passage.
Place a tick (right mark) against the correct answer:-
51. Athens is significant for the students of Greek political thought
mainly because:-
(a) it was the most powerful of the Greek City-States;
(b) its ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks
themselves ;
(c) it had the most ideal form of Government ;
(d) it is the best known of the Greek City-States.
52. Greek political thought was concerned with problems:-
(a) entirely unrelated to,
(b) identical with,
(c) different from Analogous but to,
53. The moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is :-
(a) very similar to modern moral and religious ideas ;
(b) unknown ;
(c) very different from modern moral and religious ideas.
54. It is :-
(a) easy,
(b) not at all easy,
(c) impossible,
for a modern man to imagine what life was like in a Greek
City-State.
55. In comparison with the ancient Greek City States are :-
(a) very large,
(b) very small,
(
c) about the same size.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1623
56. The population of an ancient Greek City States was :-
(a) much less that 300,000
(b) over 3 million,
(c) just over 300,000
57. The City-State of Athens comparisons :-
(a) a small territory governed by a singly city,
(b) a large territory governed by a number of cities,
(c) a small territory with village councils,
(d) a large territory with a decentralized administration.
58. At different times in the history of the world people :-
(a) have thought in basically the same way,
(b) have thought in different ways,
(c) have contradicted the views of people of the previous
generation.
59. Details of political theory are derived from Greek Political
thought :-
(a) because the Greek City States was very    similar to modern
states,
(b) inspite of Greek City State being very different from
modern States,
(c) because modern political theorists are students of Greek
Philosophy.
60. The meaning of political ideal at a particular moment in
European History since the time of the Greeks can be defined
only be:-
(a) relating it to its context,
(b) Tracing it back to its original meaning among the Greeks,
(c) Investigating the meaning of the Greek word for it,
(d) Taking into account only those features in it which have
persisted through out its history.
61. Write sentences using each of the following words so as  to
bring out its meaning clearly:-
Arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidate, hypothetical,
retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, review, empower.
EITHER
62. Write a letter to the Head of an Educational Institute in an
English speaking country, setting out the following information
in an orderly manner:-
(i) The equivalence of our examination certificate to the
certificate specified in this letter cannot be determined as
the examining authorities in Sri Lanka have not been
consulted by the institution concerned in that country,
(ii) The G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Credit Pass has been
officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in London G .C.E.
(Ordinary Level),
(iii) The receipt of the letter sent to the Commissioner of
Examinations is acknowledged,
(iv) Any further information in this matter may be obtained
from the Embassy of the Republic of Sri Lanka in that
country.
63. Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of Standards
marking out a case for the adoption of the 24 hours clock in
this country stating the advantages of such a measure.
APPENDIX  "B"
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TIONS FOR OFFICERS IN
THE SRI LANKA FOREIGN SERVICE
1. First Efficiency Bar Examination :
1.1 The First Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of two
parts and officers may take both at one sitting or
separately.
1.2 Part I – An examination in the following subjects :-
(i) Finance – The Subject in Finance will be based on the
following:
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri
Lanka. Part I (Expect Chapter X):
(b) The estimates of the current year . E.g.  Their
arrangement the heads of revenue, the Finance and
Appropriation Acts.
(c) Ordinance relating to specific accounts dealing within
Kachcheries.
(ii) History and Geography of Sri Lanka –
1.2.1 Each paper in this part will be of three hour duration
and Candidates are required to obtain a minimum of
40% marks for a pass.
1.3 Part II – Special Papers :-
(i) Elementary Constitutional Law and International Law;
(ii) Diplomatic Practice ;
(iii) International Affairs ;
(iv) The Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute, Foreign Ministry
Regulations and Computer Literacy.
1.3.1. Each paper in this part will be of three hour duration
and candidates are required to obtain a minimum of
40% marks in each paper for a pass.
1.3.2. An officer will be permitted to sit each paper
separately on any number of occasions and will be
deemed to have passed this part when he/she has
obtained the qualifying marks in respect of each
paper.
Note. – (i) Questions on Constitutional Law will be mainly on
the evolution of the Parliamentary System of
Government and the Constitutional Development

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1624
of Sri Lanka, with special reference to the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.  Questions on International Law will
include inter – state relations, both bilateral and
multilateral and the rights and duties of States in
relation to them, diplomatic law and the law of
treaties.
(ii) An of ficer who is an Attorney-at-Law or who has
obtained a degree in Law from a recognized
university will be exempted from the paper on
Elementary Constitutional Law and International
Law provided he has secured a pass in those
subjects at the relevant Examination.
2. Second Efficiency Bar  Examination :
2.1. The Second Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of
two parts and officers may take both parts at one sitting
or separately.
2.2 Part I – Examination in the following subjects :-
(i) Economic and Social Development in     Sri Lanka,
(ii) Administration – This paper is based on the
following :
(a) Office systems and organization  and methods.
(b) Establishment Code – Volume I and V olume II.
2.3 Each of the above papers will be of three hour duration
and candidates are required to obtain a minimum of 40%
marks in all papers for a pass.
2.4 Paper II – Special Papers.
(i) Elementary Constitutional Law and International Law,
(ii) Diplomatic Practice,
(iii) International Affairs.
2.5 Each of the above papers will be of three hour duration
and candidates are required to obtain a minimum of 40%
marks in all papers for a pass.
2.6 Foreign Languages :
(a) 07 Arabic 2
(b) 08 French 2
(c) 09 Russian 2
(d) 10 Spanish 2
(e) 11 Hindi 2
(f) 12 Chinese 2
(g) 13 German 2
(h) 14 Japanese 2
(i) 15 English 2
Second Language Test :
Subject Subject Duration
No. hours
30 Sinhala (Written) 2
31 Tamil (Written) 2
32 English (Written) 2
2.6.1 Question papers on Foreign languages and the second
language will be of two hour duration. Candidates are
required to obtain a minimum of 40% marks in all
papers for a pass.
2.7 An officer will be permitted to sit each paper separately
on any number of occasions and will be deemed to have
passed this part, when he/she has obtained the qualifying
marks in respect of each papers.
INTRODUCTION TO ARABIC
International General Certificate of Secondary Education
(IGCSE) syllabi are designed as two year courses for examination
at Age 16-plus.
All  IGCSE syllabuses follow a general pattern.  The main section
are ;
Aims ;
Assessment Objectives ;
Assessment ;
Curriculum Content.
The IGCSE subjects have been categorized into groups, subjects
within each group having similar Aims and Assessment Objectives.
First Language Arabic falls into Group I, Languages, of the
International Certificate of Education (ICE) subjects together with
other First Languages, foreign languages and English as a Second
Language.
The booklet IGCSE ; An Introduction gives fuller details of ICE
and the general pattern of the syllabuses.
This syllabus is designed for students taking First Language
Arabic as a single subject.  For excluded combinations with other
subjects, see the IGCSE Syllabus Synopses for 1999.
AIMS
The aims of the syllabus are the same for all students.  The aims
are set out below and described the educational purposes of a
course in a First Language for the IGCSE examination.  They are
not listed in order of priority.
The aims are to :
1. enable students to communicate accurately,
appropriately and effectively in speech and writing ;
2. enable students to understand and respond
appropriately to what they hear, read and experience ;
3. encourage students to enjoy and appreciate the variety
of language ;
4. complement the students’ other areas of study by
developing skills of a more general application ( e.g.
analysis, synthesis, drawing of inferences);
5. promote the students’ personal development and an
understanding of themselves and others.
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVES
The three assessment objectives in First Language Arabic are ;
A. Reading and Directed Writing ;
B. Continuous Writing ;
C. Usage.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1625
These assessment objectives are not necessarily related to the
way in which the subject is taught.  A description of each assessment
objective follows :-
A – READING AND DIRECTED WRITING
Students should be able to :
1. understand and convey information ;
2. understand, order and present facts, ideas  and opinions;
3. evaluate information and select what is   relevant to specific
purposes ;
4. articulate experience and express what is  felt and what is
imagined ;
5. recognize implicit meaning and attitudes;
6. communicate effectively and appropriately.
B – CONTINUOUS WRITING
Students should be able to :
7.     articulate experience and express what is felt and what is
imagined;
8.     order and present facts, ideas and opinions ;
9. communicate effectively and appropriately.
C – USAGE
Students should be able to :
10. Exercise control of appropriate grammatical structures ;
11. demonstrate an awareness of the conventions of
paragraphing, sentence structure and punctuation   ;
12. understand and employ a range of apt vocabulary ;
 13.  show a sense of audience and an awareness of register and
style in both formal and informal situations.
SPECIFICATION GRID
The relationship between the assessment objectives and
components of the scheme of assessment.
Assessment Objective Paper 1/2 Paper 3
A. Reading and Directed Writing 1 1
B.  Continuous Writing 1 1
C.  Usage  1 1
ASSESSMENT
Scheme of assessment ;
Candidates who have followed the Core curriculum and take the
relevant papers are eligible for the award of grades C to G only.
Candidates who have followed the Extended curriculum are eligible
for the ward of grades A* to E only.
For the examination to be appropriate to candidates across the
ability range, there will be a different scheme of assessment for
candidates expected to gain grades D to G (Core curriculum
candidates) and for candidates (expected to gain grades A* to C
(Extended curriculum candidates).
The papers in the assessment are as follows :
Core Curriculum Extended Curriculum
Grades available : C to G Grades available:A* to E
Paper 1 (2 hours) reading Paper 2 (2 1/4 hours) Reading
Directed Writing and Directed Writing
Paper 3 (1 ¼ hours) Paper 3 (1 1/4 hours)
Continuous Writing Continuous Writing
Weighting of papers :-
Paper Core curriculum Extended
Curriculum
1 60% 60%
2
3                                       40%
Description of papers :-
The question papers will be set entirely in the target language.
Paper I
Part I.– Will consist of a prose extract followed by six multiple
choice question which will test the candidates; understanding of the
main points of the structure and the argument, and four open-ended
questions which will test other aspects of the extract, such as the
use of language and the author’s attitude towards the subject matter.
Paper 2. –  A second, literary passage will be printed and
candidates will be asked to respond to it in a variety of ways, for
example a selective summary, a letter, a report, a speech.  One task
will be set.
Part 3. – Will be a test of usage.  Tasks will test candidates’
control of grammatical structures and awareness of register and
style.
Paper 2
Part 1.–  There will be two comparable passages, the first being
the same as the used for paper 1.
Part 1.–  The second may be of a literary nature.  One question
will be set.  It will test candidates’ ability to select, compare and
summarize specific information from both passages.
Part 2.–  This part will test candidates’ ability to use and develop
given information in another form, such as a letter or report.
Part 3.–  Will be test if usage.  Tasks will test candidates’ control
of grammatical structures and awareness of register and style.
Paper 3
This paper will test candidates’ skill in continuous writing.  A
selection of nine titles will be provided calling for an imaginative,
narrative or argumentative response in an appropriate style.
Candidates will be required to choose one assignment and will be
advised to write 600-800 characters.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1626
CURRICULUM CONTENT
Students can follow either the Core curriculum only or they
may follow the Extended curriculum which includes both the Core
and Supplement.  Students aiming for grades A* to C will follow
the Extended curriculum :-
Assessment Core Supplement
Objective
All students should In addition to what
be able to : is required in the
core, students taking
extended level
papers should be
able to :
A Reading and Demonstrate Show a precise
Directed understanding of under standing of
Writing w ords within short more extended
texts texts
Scan for an extract
specific information,
organize material
and present it in
a given forma
Show some sense
of audience and
awareness of
style
Identify main and Recognize the
subordinate topics, relationship of
summarize, ideas, ar angement of
paraphrase, concepts
re-express
Draw inferences,
evaluate,
effectiveness,
compare, analyse,
synthes
Assessment Core Supplement
Objective
Recognize and Recognize and
respond to simple respond to more
linguistic devices sophisticated
including figurative linguistic devices
language
edit or elaborate the
work of others
B Continuous Express thoughts, Show a wider and
Writing feelings and opinions more varied sense
in order to interest, of audience and
inform or convince context and an
awareness of
different styles
demonstrate paragraph,
adequate control of demonstrate a
vocabulary, syntax, sophisticated use
grammar and of vocabulary
punctuation and structures
exercise care over demonstrate
punctuation accuracy in
punctuation
C. Usage write in accurate write accurate
simple sentences complex sentences
attempt a variety of Employ a varied
sentence structures sentence structures
recognize the need write in well
for paragraphing constructed
use and appropriate paragraphs use and
vocabulary show imaginative and
some sense of varied vocabulary
audience and show a clear sense
awareness of style of audience and
awareness of style
GRADE DESCRIPTIONS
A Grade A candidate has demonstrated expertise in ;
understanding and communicating information at both a straight
forward and a complex level :
understanding facts, ideas and opinions and ordering and
presenting them with clarity and accuracy ;
evaluating material from texts and selecting and presenting in
detail what is relevant for specific purposes ;
describing and reflecting upon experience and detailing and
analyzing effectively what is felt and what is imagined ;
recognizing implicit meanings and attitudes of a writer ;
showing a clear sense of audience and an understating of
appropriate uses of language ;
writing in well constructed paragraphs, using a full range of
appropriate sentence structure and showing accuracy in spelling
and punctuation.
A Grade C candidate has demonstrated competence in :
understating and conveying information both at a straight forward
level and at a more complex level;
understanding basic facts, ideas and opinions and presenting
them with a degree of clarity and accuracy;
Assessment Core Supplement
Objective

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1627
evaluating material from texts and selecting what is relevant for
specific purpose ;
describing and reflecting upon experience and expressing
effectively what is felt and what is imagined ;
recognizing the more obvious implicit meanings and attitudes of
a writer ;
showing a sense of audience and an awareness of appropriate
uses of language ;
writing in paragraphs, using sentences of varied kinds and
exercising care over spelling and punctuation.
A Grade F candidate has demonstrated competence in:
Understanding and conveying information at a straight forward
level ;
understanding basic facts ,ideas and opinions and presenting
them with a degree of coherence ;
selecting material from texts and commenting upon it at a literal
level ;
describing experience in concrete terms and expressing intelligibly
what is felt and what is imagined ;
recognizing clear meanings and explicit attitudes of a writer ;
showing awareness that language is used in different ways in
different circumstances ;
writing at least in simple sentences – weaknesses in spelling and
punctuation and the construction of complex sentences will be
apparent, but will not seriously impair communication.
FRENCH 7193
The Examination
The examination will consist of three written papers.  The
allocation of mark is as follows Paper 1-10 marks, Paper 2-30
marks, ; Paper 3-45 marks.
Paper 1 (1/2 hour)
Dictation, A passage of modern French of about 140 words will
be read aloud, first straight through, then in repeated groups, and
finally straight through again.  The candidates will write down the
passage in French during the reading of the rated groups.  After the
final reading five minutes will be allowed for revision.
The intention of this paper is to test the candidates’ grasp of the
orthography and grammatical structure of French by requiring them
to relate the language as written to the language as spoken.
Paper 2 (1 hour)
(a) Listening comprehension (1/2 hour) (15 marks).
There will be 15 questions in English on a passage of
modern French about 300 words long.  The passage will
be read aloud three times.  Once right through a second
time in three sections, and finally right through again.  The
candidates will write their answers in English.
The intention of this part of paper is to test the candidates’
understanding of spoken French.  They will be expected
to understand the passage as a whole as well as significant
details.
(b) Reading comprehension (1/2 hour) (15 marks).
There will be 15 questions in English on a printed passage
of French about 350 words long.  The candidates will
write their answers in  English.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the candidates’
understanding or written French.  They will be expected to
understand the passage as a whole as well as significant details, and
to show some appreciation of idiom and usage.
Paper 3 ( 1  ½ hours)
(a) Translation from French (10 marks).
A Passage of modern French of about 140 words will be set
for the candidates to translate into English.  The passage
will consist of narrative, description or conversation, or
any combination of these.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of a passage of written French
and their ability to render the text accurately into acceptable
English.
(b) Either Structured composition (20 marks).
An outline situation or a description of an incident or a
dialogue or some other form of written stimulus material in
French will be given.  The candidates will be required to
write about 140 words in French, directly related to this
material.  They may be required, for example, to fill out the
details of an outline or recount an incident from a point of
view other than that given, or compose a dialogue; or
Translation into French (20 marks).
A passage of English of about 140 words will be set for the
candidates to translate into French.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ ability to write accurance French within defined
limits.
(c) Free composition (15 marks).
Two subjects, one of which will be a series of pictures, will
be set.  The candidates will be required to choose one of
these on which to write about 120 words in French.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ capacity to express ideas freely in accurate
French on a given subjects, using a variety of vocabulary
and idiom.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1628
Syllabus Guidelines
The following notes are designed to give teachers an idea of the
scope of the Ordinary Level French question papers.  The notes are
not intended to be comprehensive but they provide guidance on the
linguistic content of the examination.
Knowledge of and ability to use, the structures listed below
may be tested in any language areas within the normal range of the
imaginative or real experience of the average school pupil of 15 or
16.  It would clearly be impossible to produce a comprehensive list
of such areas but they would include the family, school, life in town
and country, transport and travel, shopping, eating and drinking,
holidays, sport, usual professions and occupations.
The language of Ordinary Level, as compared with Advanced
Level, is more straight forward and does not involve very complex
description or complicated intellectual processes.  The registers are
narrative with simple description, or conversation; a very colloquial
flavour, as well as a very literary of technical flavour, is avoided.  It
should, however, be noted that where no production of French is
required (e.g. in Paper 2) the language may will be more complex
and may contain some lexical items not necessarily actively known
by pupils for whom the examination is intended.
1. Formation and use of all regular and common irregular verbs,
including reflexives, in all simple and compound tenses of
the indicative (excluding the subjective for active use) ;
interrogative, negative and imperative forms; passive and
avoidance of the passive; participles, infinitive, common
impersonal verbs ; agreement of participles; government of
verbs ; inversion.
2. Pronouns  – Conjunctive, disjunctive, demonstrative,
common indefinite, interrogative, possessive, relative and
use of memo in lui-meme etc., en ; position on pronouns ;
use of tu and on.
3. Articles  -  Use of the definite, indefinite and partitive.
4. Nouns  -  Gender and number, single and compound, common
forms of feminines of occupations and animals.
5. Adjectives – Qualifying, numeral, demonstrative, indefinite,
interrogative, negative, possessive, compound, masculine /
feminine and plural forms (of regular and common irregular
adjectives), comparative and superlative, agreement and
position ; adverbial use ( e.g. tout and parler fort).
6. Adverbs – Form and position, comparative and superlative ;
adverb phrases (e.g. avec plaisir) ; negative expressions.
7. Conjunctions in common use,
8. Prepositions – In common use, including those with verbs
and adjectives and in adjectival phrases (e.g. une montre en
or) ; prepositional phrases ( e.g. Au bout de, en train de)
common idiomatic uses like couvert de and prendre dans ;
use of depuis.
9. Time by the clock, dates, numbers and distance measurement.
10. Weather expressions.
11. Expressions of quantity.
12. Common idioms ( e.g. expressions with avoir, il y a = ago,
venir de) :  exclamatory phrases (e.g. commune il fait beau !).
7623 JAPANESE
Syllabus
There will be one three hour paper, containing ;
(a) Translation into English from romanised Japanese.
(b) Translation   into Japanese (romanised or Japanese script)
(c) Rewriting in Japanese Kana* script of passages or words
in romanised Japanese.
(d) Translation into romanised Japanese of sentences chosen
to test grammatical knowledge.
(e) Free composition in Japanese (romanised or Japanese
script) on one of three subjects.
The romanisation used in setting this paper will be the modified
Hepburn system as used in Kenkyushas New Japanese – English
Dictionary (4th Edition 1974) but candidates may use this or the
Kunreisikiromanisation.  Long vowels may be indicated by doubling
(e.g. roomaji, roomazi) or by overlining  (e.g. romaji, romazi).
* Candidates will be expected to be able to write and to use
correctly the two syllabaries (hirugana and kutakana).  A
recommended book for this is P.G .O" Neill.  Japanese Kana
Workbook (Kodansha International, Tokyo, 1967).
CHINESE 7609
This subject may be taken at the May/June examination only.
The examination will consist
(a) Translation into English ;
(b) Translation into Chinese ;
(c) Translation into Chinese of sentences chosen to test
grammatical knowledge ;
(d) Free composition on one of three subjects.
GERMAN 7233
In writing German, candidates will not be required to use B, but
candidates who use B, will be expected to use it correctly.
The examination
The examination will consist of two written papers.  The
allocation of marks is as follows : Paper 1-15 marks ; Paper 2-70
marks.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1629
Paper 1 (1 hour)
(a) Dictation (1/2 hour) (5 marks).–  A passage of modern
German of about 100 words will be read aloud, first straight
through, then in repeated groups, and finally straight through
again.  The candidates will write down the passage in German
during the reading of the repeated groups.  After the final
reading, five minutes will be allowed for revision.
  The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ grasp of the orthography and grammatical
structure of German by requiring them to relate the language
as written to the language as spoken.
(b) Listening Comprehension  (1/2 hour) (10 marks).–  The
candidates will hear a narrative or descriptive German
passage which may contain dialogue, of about 200-250
words.  They will then write answers in English to questions
printed in English in the paper.  The questions will be
concerned with information essential to the understanding
of the passage as a whole, but the candidates will also be
expected to show that they have graped necessary points of
detail.
  The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates understanding of spoken German.
Paper 2 (2 ¼ hours)
(a) Translation from German (21 marks).– The candidates will
be required to translate a piece of German prose of about
150-200 words into English.
  The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of written German and their ability
to render the text accurately into acceptable English.
(b) Directed Production (17 marks).– A passage of German of
about 200-250 words will be printed in the paper, followed
by questions in German.  The candidates will be asked to
read the passage carefully, and then write answers in German
to the question on it.  They will be expected to write about
100 words of German.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates ability to write accurately and relevantly in
German.
(c) Essays.– The candidates will be required to write two essays
in German.  For the first essay, of about 120 words, the
candidates will be required to write on the precise content
of a series of pictures, using past tenses (20 marks), for the
second essay, of about 100 words, there will be a choice of
two general topics which may be narrative, description,
dialogue or a letter (12 marks).
  The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ capacity to express ideas in accurate German on
a given subject using a variety of vocabulary and idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines :
The following syllabus guidelines list those structures, rules
and expressions which Ordinary Level candidates should be able to
use actively.  All the items featured may not necessarily appear in
any one examination.  The list is not all-inclusive, but is a basic
outline, and any one examination may include other items within
the scope of Ordinary Level candidates.
As the candidates’ comprehension will exceed their productive
skills and they can be expected to understand hitherto unfamiliar
grammatical and lexical items within a context, structures not listed
here, but considered appropriate by the examiners, may also be
included.
The examination does not require knowledge of specialist or
technical vocabulary or dialect, but of modern everyday language
used for narrative, description or conversation.  The areas in which
the language will be tested lie within the normal range of experience
of the average 15 to 16 year old pupil and will include the family,
home, school, town, country and seaside, transport and travel,
theatre and cinema, shopping, sport, usual professions and
occupation, hobbies and pastime, common domestic and wild
animals, common plants and flowers, simple geographical facts,
nationalities and languages, common illnesses and accidents and
reference to doctor, dentist and hospital.
1. Verbs :  Strong ;  weak;  mixed;  modal  ‘compound;  reflexive;
impersonal, singular and plural;  all persons.  Indicative active-
present, future, imperfect, perfect, pluperfect.  Indicative
passive-present, imperfect.  subjunctive active-imperfect of
following verbs only;  sein, haben, werden, konnen, sollen,
mogen.  Interrogative and imperative forms.  Infinitive-with
and without zu;  with um..zu Verbs governing accusative.
Verbs governing dative.’  Verbs governing accusative and
dative.
2. Articles  :  Definite and indefinite ;  singular and plural
(definite):  all cases;  all genders.
3. Nouns  :  Singular and plural;  all cases;  all genders.
4. Pronouns :  Personal – singular and plural ; nominative,
accusative, dative.  Indefinite-man (nominative);  jemand
(uninflected);  niemand (uninflected);  etwas;  nichts.
Interrogative-wer ?  was ?  (nominative)  Demonstrative-
das.
Relative – all gendees ;  singular and plural ;  (nominative,
accusative). Reflexive-singular and plural;  all persons;
(accusative, dative).
5. Adjectives:  Demonstrative – singular and plural;  all cases;
all genders.  Possessive-singular and plural;  all cases;  all
genders;  Qualifying-perdicative, uninflected.  Attributive-
strong/weak inflections and invariable;  singular and plural;
all cases;  all genders.  Interrogative-was fur ?  Comparative
and superlative.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1630
6. Indefinite adjective – pronouns
Exhaustives – kein – all – jed – beid -
Quantitives – wenig (e) ; einig -; viel (e);
Ander -;  genug-;  melir, mehrerein biB chen;
Ein paar.
7. Adverbs :  Time; manner; place; interrogative; negative;
comparative and superlative;  adverbialphreases.
8. Common Pronominal Adverbs  : eg. Darin, damit.
8. Adverbial Conjunctions  : eg. Also nun; doch.
10. Co-ordinating Conjunctions :
e.g.  und aber; denn; oder; sondern.
11. Correlative Conjunctions :
e.g. weder ………noch; entweder………oder.
12. Common Subordinating Conjunctions  :
eg. als; beror; da; daB; nachdem; ob; obgleich; obwohl;
wahrend; weil, wenn.
13. Common Prepositions  :
+ accusative; + dative; + accusative and dative; + genitive
14. Intensifiers : Irgend; gar.
15. Rules of Contraction.
16. Numbers: Cardinal; ordinal; adverbs : eg. erstens; complex
numerals e.g;. einmal.
17. Time by clock and dates.
18. Expressions of time.
19. Expressions of measurement.
20. Expressions of quantity.
21. Reported statement and indirect questions
22. Orthography
23. Word order
24. Common idioms and exclamations
HINDI 7620
The examination will consist of one 3 hour paper, containing :
(a) Translation into English ;
(b) Translation into Hindi;
(c) Translation into Hindi of sentences chosen to test
grammatical knowledge ;
(d) Free composition on one of three subjects.
SPANISH 7593
In writing Spanish, candidates will be expected to follow the
rules for accentuation published by the Royal Spanish Academy of
Language in 1952, revised in 1958 and declared de  application
perceptive from 01st January, 1959.
The Examination
The examination will consist of two written papers.  The
allocation of marks is as follows: Paper 1-15 marks, Paper 2-70
marks.
Paper 1 (hour) :
(a) Dictation (1/2 hour) (5 marks). – A passage of modern
Spanish of about 100 words will be read aloud, first straight
through, then in repeated groups, and finally straight
through again.  The candidates will write down the passage
in Spanish during the reading of the repeated groups.  After
the final reading, five minutes will be allowed for revision.
  The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ grasp of the orthography and grammatical
structure of Spanish by requiring them to relate the
language as written to the language as spoken.
(b) Listening Comprehension (1/2 hour) (10 marks). – The
candidates will hear a narrative or descriptive Spanish
passage, which may contain dialogue, of about 200-250
words.  They will then write answers in English to
questions printed in English in the paper.  The questions
will be concerned with information essential to the
understanding of the passage as a whole, but the candidates
will also be expected to show that they have grasped
necessary points of detail.
  The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of spoken Spanish.
Paper 2 (2 hours) :
(a) Translation from Spanish (20 marks). – The candidates
will be required to translate a piece of Spanish prose of
about 150-200 words into English.
  The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of written Spanish and their
ability to render the text accurately into acceptable English.
(b) Directed Production (20 marks) – A passage of  Spanish
of about 200-250 words will be printed in the paper,
followed by questions in Spanish.  The candidates will be
asked to read the passage carefully, and then write answers
in Spanish to the questions on it.  They will be expected
to write about 100 words of Spanish.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1631
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ ability to write accurately and relevantly in
Spanish.
(c) Essay (30 marks). –  The candidates will be required to
write one essay of about 150 words in  Spanish.  The
candidates will have a choice of three subjects:  there will
be a series of pictures, a dialogue or a letter, and another
subject.
  The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ capacity to express ideas freely in accurate
Spanish on a given subject using a variety of vocabulary
and idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines
The following notes are designed to give teachers an idea of the
scope of the Ordinary Level Spanish question papers.  The notes
intended to be comprehensive but they provide guidance on the
linguistic content of the examination.
Knowledge of an ability to use the structures listed below may
be tested in any language area within the normal range of the
imaginative or real experience of the average school pupil of 15 or
16.  It would clearly be impossible to produce a comprehensive list
of such areas but they would include the family, school, life in town
and country, transport and travel, shopping, eating and drinking,
holidays, sport, usual professions and occupations.
The language of Ordinary Level, as compared with Advanced
Level, is more straight forward and does not involve very complex
description or complicated intellectual process.  The registers are
narrative with simple description, or conversation;  a very colloquial
flavour, as well as a very literary or technical flavour, is avoided.  It
should however, be noted that where no production of Spanish is
required the language may well be more complex and may contain
some lexical items not necessarily actively known by pupils for
whom the examination is intended.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the candidates’
capacity to express ideas freely in accurate Spanish on a given
subject using a variety of vocabulary and idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines
The following notes are designed to give teachers an idea of the
scope of the Ordinary Level Spanish question papers.  The notes
intended to be comprehensive but they provide guidance on the
linguistic content of the examination.
Knowledge of an ability to use the structures listed below may
be tested in any language area within the normal range of the
imaginative or real experience of the average school pupil of 15 or
16.  It would clearly be impossible to produce a comprehensive list
of such areas but they would include the family, school, life in town
and country, transport and travel, shopping, eating and drinking,
holidays, sport, usual professions and occupations.
The language of Ordinary Level, as compared with Advanced
Level, is more straight forward and does not involve very complex
description or complicated intellectual processes.  The registers are
narrative with simple description, or conversation; a very colloquial
flavour, as well as a very literary or technical flavour, is avoided.  It
should however, be noted that where no production of Spanish is
required the language may well be more complex and may contain
some lexical items not necessarily actively known by pupils for
whom the examination is intended.
1. Formation and use of all regular and common irregular verbs,
including radical and orthographical changing verbs and
reflexives, in all tenses of the indicative and subjective (the
subjunctive will be required for active use only in common
situations such as ; in its imperative use ;  after verbs of
feeling;  in straight forward conditional clauses, in future
temporary clauses; after common conjunctions like para
que, sin que, como si, etc.); interrogative, negative and
imperative forms; passive and avoidance of the passive;
participles, infinitive, gerund; common impersonal verbs.
Use of ser and estar.
2. Pronouns: Conjunctive, disjunctive, demonstrative, common
indefinite, interrogative, possessive, relative; position of
pronouns; use of se.
3. Articles (definite and indefinite including neuterlo).
4. Nouns : gender and number.
5. Adjectives : Qualifying, numeral (cardinals and lower
ordinals), demonstrative, indefinite, interrogative, possessive,
compound, masculine / feminine and plural forms (of regular
and common irregular adjectives), comparative and
superlative; agreement and position; adverbial use;
apocopation.
6. Adverbs:  Form and position, comparative and superlative;
adverb phrases; negative expressions.
7. Conjunctions in common use.
8. Prepositions in common use, with special reference to
differences between Spanish and English usage; por and
para; personal a.
9. Expressions of time, date, age, distance, quantity and
weather.
10. Common idioms ( e.g. (desssde) hace ; hay que etc.).
09–1319

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1632
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Competitive examination for the Recruitment of Engineers
to the Sri Lanka Engineering Service - 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
filling of vacancies existing in the posts of Civil, Mechanical, and
Electrical Engineers of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service as per
order of the Public Service Commission.
02. The applications should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be sent by registered post
to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Examination
Department of Sri Lanka, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before
31.10.2011. The top left corner of the envelope in which the
application in enclosed, should bear clearly the title "Competitive
Examination for the Recruitment of Engineers to the Sri Lanka
Engineering Service - 2011."
N.B.
(i) Applications which do not conform to the specimen
will be rejected.
Note:- No complaint that an application or a letter in respect of
such applications have been lost or delayed in the post
will be considered. The candidates should bear any loss
which may occur due to the delay in applying, until the
closing date of applications.
(ii) The officers in the Public Service or in the Provincial
Public Service should forward their application through
the respective heads of their organizations.
03. The Secretary to the Public Service Commission has the
power to postpone or cancel this examination. Public Service
Commission proceeds as the Appointing Authority.
04. Qualifications :
4.1 A candidate appearing at this examination.
(i) Should possess a four year full time Degree in Bachelor
of Science in Engineering from a relevant Engineering
discipline awarded from a University of Sri Lanka which
fulfils basic academic qualification to obtain the Associated
Membership of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka ;
or
(ii) Should have fully completed and passed all parts of the
examination relevant to the prescribed Engineering
Discipline held by the Institution of the Engineers of Sri
Lanka by which the candidate qualifies for the Associate
Membership of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka  ;
or
(iii) Should have fully completed and passed all parts of the
Engineering Council Examination of the United Kingdom
or its affiliated institution in the prescribed relevant
Engineering Disciplines which fulfils basic academic
qualification to obtain the Associated Membership of the
Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka.
or
(iv) Should have  obtained an Engineering Degree, equivalent
to the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Egineering, Offered
by any other University or an Institution recognized by
the University Grants Commission by which the
candidate qualifies to obtain the Associate Membership
of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka ;
or
(v) Should have obtained a Corporated Membership or a
Fellow Membership from a recognized Engineering
Institution in the prescribed Engineering Disciplines by
which the candidate qualifies to obtain the Corporate
Membership or a Fellow Membership of the Institution
of Engineers, Sri Lanka.
Note :- The required qualification as stipulated above
should be successfully completed in every respect,
by the closing date of applications.
4.2 Other qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(ii) Should have fulfilled respective qualifications to the date
as specified in this gazette notification to do so.
(iii) Physical qualification  : Each applicant should be
physically fit in every aspect to discharge the duties of
the post and to serve in any region of Sri Lanka
(iv) Should be of excellent moral character
(v) The course subjects stated in the academic transcripts
issued to confirm the qaulifications stipulated in section
4.1 shall be appropriate to the recruiting engineering
service groups in every aspect.
(vi) A person who is ordained in any religious order shall not
be eligible to apply.
(vii) Should be over 21 years of age and below 35 years of age.
(viii) Technical Officers in the Public Service or in the Provincial
Public Service (Technical Officers of the Sri Lanka
Technological service, Engineering Assistant of the
Irrigation Department Engineering Assistant Service,
Technical Officer of the Supervisory Managers Service
of the Department of Railway) who both, have registered
in an Institution recognized by the University Grants
Commission to obtain the educational and professional
qaulifications stipulated in sub sections 4.1 : (ii), (iii),
(iv) and (V) and have successfully obtained such
qualifications while serving in the Public Service or in the
Provincial Public Service and also who have not passed
their optional retirement age to the date of recruitment,
are eligible to apply. Such an Officer should have
completed a satisfactory service in the immediate
preceding 5 years of their permanent service.
Note .– The above qualifications should have been
successfully completed in every aspect by the closing
date of applications.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1633
05. Monthly salary scale .– The post carries a monthly salary
scale of Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - 53,555 with
Efficiency Bars at the relevant salary steps.
06. Terms of Engagement and General Conditions of service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will be required to contribute to the "Widows
and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans Pension Fund".
The appointment will be subject to a probation period
of three years.
(ii) The selected candidates will be appointed to posts in
the Sri Lanka Engineering Service by the Public Service
Commission and such appointees are subject to serve in
the Public Service as well as in the Provincial Public
Service.
(iii) The selected candidates should be prepared to serve in
any part of the island in which they are called upon to
serve.
(iv) The appointment of any candidate who fails to assume
duties of the appointed post on the prescribed date and/
or rejects or avoids assuming duties in the post or the
area appointed, may be cancelled.
(v) Appointments will be made subject to the general
conditions governing appointments in the Public Service
and also subject to the terms and conditions set out in
the Minute on the Sri Lanka Engineering Service Published
in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 509/07 dated 07th June 1988,
and any amendments made or to be made hereafter to the
aforesaid Minute.
07. Special service conditions of the Sri Lanka Engineering
Service :
(i) A candidate with full professional qualifications will
be placed on the 5th salary step with effect from the
date of appointment.
(ii) Obtaining full professional qualifications is mandatory
for promotion from the recruitment grade to the next
higher grade.
08. Scheme of Examination :
(i) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English languages.
(ii) A candidate can sit for the examination in the language
in which he/she has passed the qualifying examination
as stipulated in section 4.1.
(iii) A candidate who has passed the qualifying examination
(as stipulated in section 4.1 in a language different from
an official language can sit for the examination in one of
the official languages or in English.
(iv) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language
of the examination stated in the application.
09. Method of applying :
(i) The application should be in the language in which the
candidate sits for the examination. While preparing the
application in a language other than English (i. e. Sinhala or
Tamil), it is also required to indicate the name of the
examination, which is indicated in the heading of the
application, in English language. Application should be
prepared in such a way that Heading Nos. 1.0 to 4.5
appears on the first page, 5.0 to 9.0 on the second page
and the remaining 10.0 to 11.0 on the third page and should
be filled clearly in the candidate's own handwriting. The
candidate should check whether the perfected application
is in conformity with the specimen application form.
Applications with incomplete information and not in
compliance with the specimen form of the application
will be rejected without notice. Applicants are advised to
keep a photocopy of the application.
(ii) The applicant's specimen signature on the application
should be attested by a Principal of a Government School,
a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney
at Law, a Public Notary, a Commissioned Officer in the
Armed Forces of Sri Lanka, an Officer holding a gazetted
post in the Sri Lanka Police Service or an officer holding a
permanent post of the Government and drawing a basic
annual salary of more than Rs.240,360.
(iii) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
(iv) As soon as admission cards are issued to applicants, a
notice to that effect will be published in the newspapers
by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. A candidate
who does not receive his/her admission card even after 03
days from the aforesaid notice, should immediately notify
the Commissioner General of Examinations, The
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla (Telegraphic address Exams Colombo) with
the following particulars :–
(a) Name of Examination;
(b) Full name of the candidate ;
(c) Address ;
(d) Certified copies of the application and of the
payment receipt kept in the applicant's possession ;
(e) Date of posting the application and the Registration
Number ;
(f) In case of applicants outside Colombo, the address
to which the admission card should be sent.
10. Examination Fees .– The examination fee will be Rs.1000.
Examination fees should be paid before closing date of applications
at any District/Divisional Secretary's office to the credit of Revenue
Head 2003-02-13 Receipt obtained from the District/Divisional
secretary's Office should be firmly pasted along an edge in the
relevant cage of the application. This fee will not be refunded.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1634
Applications sent without making the due payment of the
examination fee as stipulated  above will be rejected. The candidate
is advised to keep a photocopy of the payment receipt.
11. The date of examination.– The examination will be held only
in Colombo on a date which comes after the month of October
2011.
12. If the number of applications received is less than the number
of vacancies to be filled, the Public Service Commission has the
power to refrain from holding the examination and to select the
suitable candidates on the results of an interview held for the purpose
of examining the qualifications of the applicants.
13. Type of the examination. – This Competitive Examination
will be held in order to determine a merit order of the engineers who
will be applying for the posts of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service
having fulfilled the qualifications as stipulated in the section 04.
Therefore, the above examination is confined to a written aptitude
test which carries 100% marks. The question paper is designed to
provide an assessment of the candidate's power of logical reasoning
and analysis and ability to draw sound inference through the
knowledge by following Engineering Science as prescribed in section
4.1. The question paper will be of the multiple choice type with
duration of 1 and 1/2 hours. The merit order of the candidates will
be determined on the order of the marks scored by the candidates in
the above examination.
14.  Admission to the Examination :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all candidates whose applications
have been received. A candidate presenting himself for
the examination must produce his/her admission card,
on which his/her specimen signature has been attested,
to the supervisor of the examination centre. A candidate
who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be
permitted to sit the examination.
(ii) A candidate must sit for the examination at the
examination centre assigned to him/her. Every candidate
should hand over the admission card to the Supervisor
of the examination hall, on the first day of the examination.
A set of rules to be followed by all candidates is published
in this gazette notification. Candidates are subject to the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in conducting this examination.
Candidates are liable to subject to a punishment imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations for breach
of these rules.
Note : Admissions cards are issued on the assumption
that the candidates have fulfilled all the requisite
qualifications stipulated in this notice. The issue of an
admission card to a candidate should not be treated as
a proof that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
15. Identification of candidates.– A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the Invigilator of the examination. Any of the following documents
will be accepted for this purpose :–
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
16. Penalty for furnishing false information .– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to or during or after the examination. If any of the
particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be intentionally
false or if he/she has wilfully suppressed any material fact, he/she
will be liable to be dismissed from the Public Service.
17. Method of Selection for Appointments.– As prescribed in the
section 13, candidates who have scored highest marks shall be
summoned for an interview subject to the provisions stipulated
below :
(i) A number of candidates equivalent to a minimum of twice
the number of vacancies will be called for the interview,
(ii) Certificates of the candidates will be ex amined at an
interview held by an interview board approved by the
Public Service Commission,
(iii) All the documents /Certificates produced by the
candidates at the interview shall be valid in every aspect.
Any document/certificate produced by the candidates
subject to the covering approval of the appropriate
certifying authority is invalid,
(iv) All valid documents/Certificates as prescribed in 17 (iii)
shall be produced at the  interview. Any document/
certificate produced after the interview shall not be
accepted,
(v) Marks will not be allocated at the interview,
(vi) If sevaral candidates have obtained the same marks, an
appropriate decision will be taken by the Public Service
Commission and that decision shall be final.
18. Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka shall make
arrangements to send the marks scored by the candidates on the
written examination to each candidate when the Department of
Examination is informed by the Director Engineerings service to
release the results.
19. The number of appointees and the effective date of the
appointment will be determined by the Public Service Commission.
The Public Service Commission has the power to refrain from
filling any or all of the vacancies and to take decisions regarding any
matters not provided for in this notification.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1635
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission.
P. B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Engineering Service Division,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
For Office use only
C
OMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE SRI LANKA
ENGINEERING SERVICE - 2011
Category applied for :
(Indicate the appropriate number in the box)
Civil 1
Mechanical 2
Electrical 3
Language Media of Examination :
Indicate the appropriate number in the box)
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials at the end (in English Block Capitals)
Mr./Mrs./Miss e.g. SILVA, A. B. :–––––––––.
1.2 Names denoted by initials (in English Block Capitals) :
–––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In the language of your National Identity
Card) :–––––––––.
2.0 National Identity Card No. :
3.0 3.1 Permanent Address (in English Block Capitals) :––––––.
3.2 Telephone Numbers : Land Line :–––––––––.
Mobile :–––––––––.
3.3 Postal Town :–––––––––.
4.0 4.1 Ethnic Group :
(Sinhala- 1, Tamil -2, Indian Tamil -3,
Muslim - 4, other 5)
4.2 Gender group (Male - 0, Female - 1)
4.3 Marital Status (Single -1 Married -2)
4.4 Date of Birth :
Year :               Month : Date :
4.5 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years :                    Months :                Days :
5.0 5.1 Educational Qualifications :-
(i) Effective date of the degree :––––––––––.
(ii) University/Institution :––––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number and Date :––––––––––.
(iv) Name of the Degree Course: (e. g. B. Sc. Engineering) :
––––––––––.
(v) Engineering discipline : ( e. g . Civil, Mechanical,
Electrical, Production) :––––––––––.
(vi) Year of completion of the Degree :––––––––––.
(vii) Subjects of the final Year :––––––––––.
(viii) Language in which the candidate sat the examination :
––––––––––.
5.2 Professional Qualifications, if any (e.g. MICE, MIE) :–––––.
6.0 Particulars of the present post and posts held previously, if
any (date of entry to the service, date of resignation and reasons
for resignation should be mentioned) :
6.1 Post :––––––––––.
6.2 Department/Institution :––––––––––.
6.3 Date of Appointment :––––––––––.
6.4 Whether permanent/Pensionable/non- pensionable/
temporary :––––––––––.
6.5 Whether confirmed in the post :––––––––––.
6.6 Salary scale of the post and present salary :––––––––––.
6.7 Particulars of the posts held previously :––––––––––.
7.0 Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for a criminal
offence? if so, furnish particulars of such conviction and
penalty imposed :––––––––––.
8.0 Please paste the receipt along one side so as not to be detached
(It will be useful to keep a photocopy with the candidates) :
Number of the Receipt :––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
9.0 Declaration of the application :
I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect,
I am liable to disqualify if detected before selection ; to dismissal
without compensation, if detected after appointment.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1636
Furthermore, I hereby state that I am bound by all rules and
regulations of this examination imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
10. Attestation of Signature :
I hereby certify that (name in full)............... (As per the 09
(II) of the gazette notification) who submits this application is
known to me personally and that he/she placed his/her signature
in my presence on..............
–––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Full Name of the Officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(to be confirmed by the official Stamp)
11. Report of the Head of Department if the applicant is in the
Public Service/Provincial Public Service.
I hereby certify that (name in full)............. who submits this
application is known to me personally and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on................
I certify that the particulars given in paragraph 09 above are
correct and his/her work and conduct are............. he/she can be/
cannot be released from the present post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Officer attesting the Signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the Official Stamp)
09-1304
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY OF  MINOR  EXPORT  CROPS PROMOTION
Department of Export Agriculture
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF EXTENSION OFFICER
OF CLASS II SEGMENT 'B" OF SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
EXPORT AGRICULTURE – 2011
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to
fill the vacancies of above mentioned post of Sri Lanka Technological
Service in the Department of Export Agriculture.
02. The candidates should not be less than 18 years or more
than 45 years of age. The upper age limit will not apply to those
who are already in Government or Provincial Government Service.
Issuing of admissions to sit for the examination will not be considered
as an acceptance that the candidate is qualified for the post. The
candidateship will be cancelled once it is revealed that he/she lacks
necessary qualifications when the candidates are called for an
interview to chek the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette
Notification.
03. The monthly salary scale for this post according to Public
Administration Circular MN -3 is Rs.15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 -11
x 320 - 20 x 360 - 27,885.
04. This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to the Widow/Widower and Orphans' Pension Fund.
05. It is essential that candidates should have fulfilled the basic
Educational qualifications and professional qualifications mentioned
below, by the last date of closing applications.
Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L)
Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) examination in 06 subjects
with credits for Sinhala/Tamil or Literature, Mathematics,
Science and any other subject at not more than two attempts.
G. C. E. (A/L)
Should have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination at one attempt
in three Science subjects including two subjects from Biology,
Agriculture, Chemistry and Physics.
Professional Qualifications .- Should have obtained a two years
Diploma in Agriculture conducted by Government or a recognized
Institute.
06. Mode of Applying :
(a) Application forms should be prepared using both sides of
A4 size (21cm x 29cm) sheet including section 01 to 05 in
the first page with accordance to the Specimen application
form appended to this Gazette notification.
(b) The name of the Examinations mentioned in the heading of
the application form should be included in English in
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in addition
to Tamil in Tamil applications.
(c) Duly filled application forms should be forwarded under
registered cover to meet Commissioner General of
Examinations, Sri Lanka Department of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla on or before 24.10.2011.
(d) The post applied for should be clearly written on the upper-
left -hand corner of the envelope containing the application
form.
(e) The receipt obtained by paying Rs.300 to be credited to
the income Head 2003-02-31 of Commissioner General of
Examinations at any District or Divisional Secretariat of

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1637
the island should be affixed in the relevant space provided
in the application form. Keeping a photocopy of the receipt
will be useful.
(f) Applications that are incomplete and received late will be
rejected without prior notice and the Department will not
be responsible for loss of applications in the post or any
postal delays.
(g) The signature of the applicant should be attested by a
Principal of government school or a justice of Peace or an
Attorney at Law or a staff grade officer in State Service.
(h) The candidates who are already in State Service should
forward the application forms through the Head of the
Department.
07. Examination Procedure :
(a) Admissions will be issued by the Commissioner General
of Examination to the candidates who have sent application
forms. The candidates should produce the attested
admission to the Supervisor in the Prescribed examination
hall. Any candidate who fails to produce the admission
card will not be allowed to sit for the examination.
(b) This examination will be held in December 2011. The
candidates who do not receive the admission before 07
days to the date of examination should inquire without
delay informing on the following details to the Organization
and Examination Branch of the Department of Examination
at Pelawatte, Battaramulla.
(i) Name of the Exam ;
(ii) Full name of the Candidate ;
(iii) Address ;
(iv) Date, Post Office and the Postal Code of the Post
Office where the application was posted ;
(v) Number and Date of the Receipt and the Divisional
Secretariat to which the money was  paid.
(c) Transportation expense or any other expenses incurred by
the candidate in order to be present at the examination will
not be reimbursed
(d) Identity.- The candidate should prove his/her identity to
the satisfactory of the Supervisor on each subject he/she
sits for Herein.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or ;
(ii) Vailid Passport will be accepted.
The candidates who fail to produce documentation to
prove his/her identity will not be allowed to sit for the
examination.
(e) Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test (Subject No.01) (Time : 1 hour, Total
Marks : 100)
Consists of questions to determine the candidate's
ability of logical reasoning, analytical thinking and
decision making.
(ii) Question Paper on Technology (Subject No.02) (time
02 hours. Total Marks 100)
Syllabus of the question paper on Technology :
1. General Agriculture and Principles.
2. Crop Production and Principles. Agronomical Facts.
3. Soil and Fertilizers, Plant Nutrition, Environmental Effects.
4. Crop Propagation Methods.
5. Diseases and Pests, Characteristics and Damages.
6. Agricultural Policies, Past, Present and Future Potentials.
7. Botanical information, Climatic Factors, Fertilizer effects
and nutrition, Diseases and Pests, Post Harvest Technology
related to Export Agricultural Crops Black Pepper,
Cinnamon, Coffee, Cocoa, Cardamom, Clove, Nutmeg,
Betel and Areca Nut.
8. Export Agricultural Crops Production, Marketing and
Export Potentials.
9. Organic Faming.
10. Farm Management, Production of plants and planting
meterials and Nursery Management.
11. Agriculture Extension Methods and Extension
Methodology.
(f) The  examination will be held in Sinhala, English and Tamil
Mediums and the Candidates who sit for the exam should
appear for all the subjects of the examination in one medium.
(g) Examination to recruit for this post will be held only in
Colombo.
08. Conditions of Employment :
(i) Selected candidates are obligated to work in any area of the
Country.
(ii) Currently vacant Districts and offices are mentioned below.
(i) Monaragala
(ii) Badulla
(iii)
Hambanthota
(iv) Matara
(v) Galle
(vi) Rathnapura
(vii) Nuwara-Eliya
09. Mode of Recruitment .– The candidates who obtain 40% or
more marks in each paper at the examination will be called for an
interview based on the order of merit. Number of candidates to be
called for the interview will be twice as the existing vacancies.
Marks will not be given at the interview and the candidates who
have fulfilled the basic requirements will be recruited in the order of
the total marks obtained at the examination.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1638
10. Any matter not mentioned here will be decided by the
appointing authority, Every candidate is obliged to follow the
examination rules and regulations mentioned in the Gazette
notification.
11. The Commissioner general of Examination will permit all
the candidates who have paid the relevant examination fee and
forwarded the applications on or before the closing date to sit for
the competitive examination on the presumption that only those
who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the gazette
notification have applied.
W. D. L. G
UNARA THNE,
Director of Export Agriculture.
(For Office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICA TION FOR THE COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO
THE POST OF EXTENSION OFFICER OF CLASS II SEGMENT "B" OF SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EXPORT AGRICULTURE
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with Initials :––––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters) Ex : SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.1 Postal address (Admission will be sent to this address)
(In English Capital Letters) :––––––––––.
2.2 Telephone Number (If available) :
03. Gender :
Female 1
Male 0 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
04. Civil Status :
Married 2
Single 1 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. 6.1 Date of Brith :
Year :                    Month  : Date :
6.2 Age as at the last date of closing the applications :-
Years :              Months :            Days :
07. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :-
First Attempt Second Attempt
Name of the Exam ...................... .........................
Year and Month ...................... .........................
Index No. ...................... .........................
Medium ...................... .........................
First Attempt Second Attempt
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 1.
2. 2.
3. 3.
4. 4.
5. 5.
6. 6.
7. 7.
8. 8.
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :-
Year and Month .................. ...................
Index No. ................. ...................
Medium .................. ..................
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
(c) Professional Qualifications :-
Diploma and the Y ear Index No. Subjects Grade
name of institute

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1639
08. (a)
Number of the receipt
Date
Divisional Secretariat
Amount Paid
Stick the receipt of Examination fee here.
(Keeping a copy of the receipt would be useful)
09. Certification of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
applications is true and correct. I am aware that if any information
furnished by me in this application is found to be false or incorrect
before  I am selected, I am liable for  disqualification and for dismissal
without any compensation if the inaccuracy is defected after the
appointment.
 –––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
10. Attestation :
I certify Mr./Mrs./Ms............ is personally known to me and
he/she placed his/her signature in front of me on.............. and he/
she has paid the examination dee due, and affixed the receipt.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––.
Full Name of the attester :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Verify by official seal)
Commissioner General of Examination
I certify that the above applicant has/has not fulfilled the
requirements to sit for the Examination.
––––––––––––,
(Signature and Title of the Head of the Department)
Date :–––––––––.
09-1175
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.