

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
————————
Presented by the Hon. Sarathi Dushmantha, M. P.
for Kegalle District on 03rd of August 2021
(Published in the Gazette on July 19, 2021)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
BALANGODA ANANDA MAITREYA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
[Bill No. 62]

<!-- page 2 -->

1Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
Short title
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE  THE BALANGODA ANANDA MAITREYA
FOUNDATION
WHERE A Foundation called and known as the “Balangoda
Ananda Maitreya Foundation” has  heretofore been formed
in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and  matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed, and has  applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Balangoda Ananda
Maitreya Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2021
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as the “foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to
as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the
name and style of “Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation”
and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full
power and authority to have and use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation  is
constituted are hereby declared to be –
(a) to assist the most Venerable Aggamahapanditha,
Adhiraja Maha Rattaguru Balangoda Ananda
Preamble
General
objects of the
Corporation
Incorporation
of the
Balangoda
Ananda
Maitreya
Foundation
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation
(Incorporation)
2
Maitreya Maha Nayake Thero in his effect of
disseminating the Buddha, Dhamma and Buddhist
Philosophy in Sri Lanka and abroad ;
(b) to publish old and new publications, books,
writings, reports and information on most Venerable
Aggamahapanditha, Adhiraja Maha Rattaguru
Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Maha Nayake Thero
and such other material written on him by others on
the approval of the Foundation ;
(c) to establish and maintain liaison with countries and
international organizations, on the Buddha,
Dhamma, Buddhist Philosophy and teachings of
Load Buddha;
(d) to establish an information centre/research library
in order to collect and designation information on
teachings of the Lord Buddha, publication and
speeches of the most Venerable
Aggamahapanditha, Adhiraja Maha Rattaguru
Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Maha Nayake Thero
on Buddhism and its doctrine ;
(e) to establish an International Language School in
Sri Lanka for the benefit of the Bhikkhus of Sri
Lanka and abroad;
(f) to establish a fund to provide facilities and
assistance to Bhikkhus selected by the Foundation
from Sri Lanka and abroad;
(g) to sponsor and conduct conferences, seminars,
workshops, ground studies, lectures in Sri Lanka or
elsewhere;
(h) to advise and assist all communities in Sri Lanka to
live in peace and harmony; and
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(i) to organize leadership programmes.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be managed by a Committee of
Management consisting not more than nine members
including Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer elected in
accordance with such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Ven.
Ananda Mangala Thero shall be the Chairman of the Board
of Directors for life.
(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist
of the members of the Committee of Management holding
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the powers to open, operate or close bank
accounts to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect or accept grants and donations to invest
its funds to the Corporation and to engage, employ and
dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the members present to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, on all or any of the following matters:–
(a) the classification of members, and the admission,
withdrawal, expulsion of members;
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation
General
Powers of the
Corporation
Rules of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation
(Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
(b) the election of office bearers, resignation from,
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and their powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Committees of
the Management and its powers, conduct and duties;
(d) the procedure to be observed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Committee of
Management or  sub Committee and of the time,
places, notices and agenda of such meetings, the
quorum thereof and the conduct of business thereof;
(e) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(f) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation,
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject
to the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation preceding
the date of commencement of this Act, shall be paid and
discharge by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation

<!-- page 6 -->

5Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation
(Incorporation)
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the corporation shall be deposited
in one or more banks as the Corporation shall determined.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and function under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire  and hold any property movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of  the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is or are by its or their  rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.
11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of all moneys received and expended, by the
Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
income and expenditure account and the balance sheet
certified by a qualified auditor appointed by the Committee
of Management.
5
10
15
20
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
25
Fund of the
Corporation
Property
remaining on
dissolution
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation
35

<!-- page 7 -->

Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation
(Incorporation)
6
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Corporation, who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as  a
witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic, or
corporate or of any other persons expect such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others
Seal of the
Corporation
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency

<!-- page 8 -->

7Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation
(Incorporation)
Department of Government Printing