

<!-- page 1 -->

1A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
PART  IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial Council Notifications
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
By-laws relating to Eradication of Mosquitoes and Disease Inflicting Insects within the
Municipal Council Area
THE draft By-laws set out below, frame by me as the Provincial Minister in-charge the subject to Local Government under
section (2) of the local authorities (standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952, read with the section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(consequential provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are here by published.
Municipal Councils are empowered by paragraph (h) of sub section (5)  of section 272 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance
(Chapter 252) read with the section 267 of the said ordinance to make By-laws on eradication of mosquitoes and disease
inflicting insects and the Municipal Councils of Western Province are empowered to adopt the By-laws in accordance with
the provision of sub section 3 of the Local Authority Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
PRASANNA RANATHUNGA
Chief Minister and the Minister in-charge of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Power and Energy, Man power and Employment, Economic Development of the
Provincial Council of Western Province.
Srawasthi Mandiraya,
Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
On this 09 day of June 2011.
wxl 1713$11 - 2011 cQ,s 05 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2011'07'05
No. 1,713/11 –  TUESDAY JULY 05,  2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
BY  LAWS
1. These By - law may be cited as the By-laws for the improvement of the environmental conditions within the area of
Authority of Municipal Council by the prevention of mosquito breeding and disease inflicting insect breeding, and for
the prevention of epidemics within such area of authority.
2. No person shall do any act or cause any act to be done within the area of authority of any Municipal Council which may
cause the breeding of or facilitating the breeding of mosquitoes or any other disease inflicting insects.
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises whether resident or non resident, within the area of
authority of a Municipal Council to cause-
(a) open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tires, coconut shells, split coconuts, and any other article or receptacle or
vessel found within such premises to be removed or destroyed;
(b) gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth flow
of water;
(c) all water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water to be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so as to
make it mosquito-proof and insect proof and thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects;
(d) any well found in such premises to be maintain and kept in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes
and disease inflicting insects;
(e) any artificial  pond or pool found in such premises to be emptied and cleaned at least once in every week;
(f) measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected in the drains found in such premises by allowing free flow
of water and with regular maintenance;
(g) shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation other than those grown for the purpose of food or for
ornamental purposes and found within a range of five loss meters from any building within such premises which is
used as a dwelling place, to be removed in entirety;
(h) all quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits, or any other pits with in such premises and used for any other purpose,
to be maintained in a manner so as to prevent water getting collected in item;
(i) the removal and destruction of land grown ornamental plants and aquatic plant commonly known as "Diya Parandel";
"Penda pasi", "Telpasi", or any other plants or aquatic plants found within such premises which may facilitate the
breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects and, prevention of the floating of such plants along any water
course, by the erection of suitable barriers;
(j) any latrine, ditch, sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found in such premises and its surroundings to be maintained and
kept in good repair so as to make it mosquito proof and prevent the breeding of mosquitoes;
(k) take necessary measures to prevent water getting collected in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any other
place within such area.
4. The Mayor of the Municipal Council or any officer authorized in writing by him may, at any time of the day between
6 a.m.  to 6 p.m. enter any premises within  the area of authority of the Municipal Council and inspect such premises to
ensure the following:-
(i) whether such premises is a breeding place for mosquitoes;
(ii) whether the occupier of such premises has complied with the provisions of the By-laws;
(iii) where measures have to be taken to prevent the breedings of and destroy the mosquitoes; what such measures are;
and
(iv) whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises was a success.

<!-- page 3 -->

3A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
5. (i) The Mayor or any officer authorized in writing for the purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises, if
necessary,  require the owner or occupier of such premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary to
destroy the mosquitoes and eradicate the conditions favorable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a presises to whom a written notice was given under paragraph (i) shall, comply with
such notice within the period specified in such notice.
6. (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of any premises shall, without the written approval of the Mayor,
construct any well, tank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental shower, or any other structure where water can get
collected or stored;
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the provisions of paragraph (i) of this by law, the Mayor shall, by
a written notice served on the owner or occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such well, tank, pond,
water receptacle, ornamental shower or structure  with specified material or destroy otherwise or alter same in
the manner specified in such notice within the period specified in such notice.
7. (i) Any notice under by law 5 or 6 may be either duly served by delivering it personally to the owner or occupier of
the premises or by affixing such notice in a conspicuous place in such premises.
(ii) Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession of any premises and if notice specified in by law 5 or
by law 6 is duly served on one of them, all the co-owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to comply
with the requirements of such notice or for non-performance of the requirement of such notice.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom a written notice has been served under by law 5 or by
law 6, fails to comply with the requirements of such written notice, the Mayor or any officer authorized for the
purpose by him in writing may, enter such premises at any reasonable time of the day between 6 a.m.  to 6 p.m.
with any assistants or servants and carry out or cause to be carried out the work or measures specified in such
notice.
(iv) Where any work to measures specified in a written notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises
under by law 5 or by law 6 has been carried out by the Mayor or any officer authorized by him in writing, the
expenses incurred in carrying out such work shall be payable to the Municipal Council by such owner or
occupier of such premises.  The owner or occupier of the premises shall, within fourteen days from the date of
a request under the hand of the Mayor for the payment of such expenses, to the Municipal Council and if he
fails to  make such payment as requested the provisions of  the part XV of the Municipal Councils Ordinance
shall be applicable.
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws shall be guilty of an offense as per the Municipal
Councils Ordinance.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these By-laws :
"authorized officer" shall mean any officer in a Municipal Council authorized in writing by the Mayor of such
Municipal Council;
"Mayor" shall mean the Mayor of the Municipal Council;
"disease inflicting insects" shall mean Mosquitoes and other insects which carries diseases.
"occupier" shall mean a person in occupation of any premises or having the charge, management or control thereof,
whether on his own account or as an agent of any other;
"owner" shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or any person who has any right to the rent or produce of the
premises;
"premises" shall mean, any land, house, building, or any construction, or any well, being used or abandoned or any
abandoned ship, container or vehicle and also includes any pond, tank, or any bank of any lake, water course, drain
or river.
07-485/1

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
By Laws Relating to Eradication of Mosquitoes and Disease Inflicting Insects within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area
THE draft by laws set out below, framed by me as the Provincial Minister- in-Charge the subject to Local Government under
section (2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952, read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are hereby published.
Pradeshiya Sabhas are empowered by Paragraphs (O) of Sub section (9) of Section 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act,
No. 15 of 1987 read with the Section 122 of the said  Act to make By-laws on eradication of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects and the Pradeshiya Sabhas of Western Province are empowered to adopt the By-laws in accordance with the
provision of sub section 3 of the Local Authority Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
P
RASANNA RANATHUNGA,
Chief Minister and the Minister-in-Charge of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration, Power and Energy,
Manpower and Employment,  Economic Development of the Provincial of Western Province.
Srawasthi Mandiraya,
Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
On  this 09th day of June, 2011.
BY  LAWS
1.  These By-laws  may be cited as the By-laws for the Improvement of the environmental conditions within the area
of Authority of Pradeshiya Sabha by the prevention of mosquito breeding and disease inflicting insect breeding, and
for the prevention of epidemics within such area of authority.
2.  No Person shall do any act or cause, any act to be done within the area of authority of any Pradeshiya Sabha which
may cause the breeding of or facilitating the breeding of mosquitoes or any other disease inflicting insects.
3.  It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises whether resident or non resident, within the area
of authority of a Pradeshiya Sabha to cause-
(a) open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tires, coconut shells, split coconuts and any other article or receptacle or
vessel found within such premises to be removed or destroyed;
(b) gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth
flow of water;
(c) all water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water to be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so as
to make it mosquito-proof and insect proof and thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects;
(d) any well found in such premises to be maintained and kept in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of
mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects;
(e) any artificial pond or pool found in such premises to be emptied and cleaned at least once in every week;
(f) measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected in the drains found in such premises by allowing free
flow of water and with regular maintenance;
(g) shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation other than those grown for the purpose of food or for
ornamental purposes and found within a range of five loss meters from any building within such premises which
is used as a dwelling place, to be removed in entirety;
(h) all quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any other pits with in such premises and used for any other purpose,
to be maintained in a manner so as to prevent water getting collected in them;

<!-- page 5 -->

5A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(i) the removal and destruction of land grown ornamental plants and aquatic plant commonly known as "Diya
Parandel", "Penda pasi", " Telpasi", or any other plants or aquatic plants found within such premises which may
facilitate the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects and, prevention of the floating of such plants
along any water course, by the erection of suitable barriers;
(j) any latrine, ditch, sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found in such premises and its surroundings to be maintained
and kept in good repair so as to make it mosquito proof and prevent the breeding of mosquitoes;
(k)  take necessary measures to prevent water getting collected in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any other
place within such area.
4. The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any officer authorized in writing by him may, at any time of the day
between 6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. enter any premises within the area of authority of the Pradaeshiya Sabha and  inspect
such premises to ensure the following:-
(i) Whether such premises is a breeding place for mosquitoes;
(ii) Whether the occupier of such premises has complied with the provisions of the By-laws;
(iii) Where measures have to be taken to prevent the breedings of and destroy the mosquitoes, what such measures
are; and
(iv) whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises was a success.
5. (i) The Chairman or any officer authorized in writing for the purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises, if
necessary,  require the owner or occupier of such premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary to destroy
the mosquitoes and eradicate the conditions favourable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a premises to whom a written notice was given under Paragraph (i) shall, comply with
such notice within the period specified in such notice.
6. (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of any premises shall, without the written approval of the Chairman,
construct any well, tank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental showers, or any other structure where water can get
collected or stored.
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the provisions of Paragraph (i) of this by - law, the Chairman, shall, by
a written notice served on the owner or occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such well, tank, pond, water
receptacle, ornamental shower or structure  with specified material or destroy otherwise or alter same in the manner
specified in such notice within the period specified in such notice.
7. (i) Any notice under By - law 5 or 6 may be either duly served by delivering it personally to the owner or occupier of
the premises or by affixing such notice in a conspicuous place in such premises.
(ii) Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession of any premises and if notice specified in by law 5 or by
law 6 is duly served on one of them, all the co-owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to comply with the
requirements of such notice or for non-performance of the requirement of such notice.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom a written notice has been served under by law 5 or by law
6, fails to comply with the requirements of such written notice, the Chairman or any officer authorized for the purpose by
him in writing may, enter such premises at any reasonable time of the day between 6.00 a.m.  to 6.00 p.m. with any
assistants or servants and carry out or cause to be carried out the work or measures specified in such notice.
(iv) Where any work or measures specified in a written notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises under
By - law 5 or By - law 6 has been carried out by the Chairman,  or any officer authorized by him in writing, the expenses
incurred in carrying out such work shall be payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha by such owner or occupier of such
premises.  The owner or occupier of the premises shall, within fourteen days from the date of a request under the hand
of the Chairman,  for the payment of such expenses, make such payment to then Pradeshiya Sabha and if he fails to  make
such payment as requested the provisions of the part VIII of the  Pradeshiya Sabhas  Act,  shall be applicable.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws shall be guilty of an offense as per the Pradeshiya
Sabhas Act.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these By-laws-
"authorized officer" shall mean any officer in a Pradeshiya Sabha authorized in writing by the Chairman, of such
Pradeshiya Sabhas;
"Chairman" shall mean the Chairman of the .................. Pradeshiya Sabhas;
"disease inflicting insects" shall mean Mosquitoes and other insects which carries diseases.
"occupier" shall mean a person in occupation of any premises or having the charge, management or control thereof,
whether on his own account or as an agent of any other;
"owner" shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or any person who has any right to the rent or produce of the
premises;
"premises" shall mean, any land, house, building, or any construction, or any well, being used or abandoned or any
abandoned ship, container or vehicle and also includes any pond, tank, or any bank of any lake, water course, drain or
river.
07-485/2
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
By-laws Relating to Eradication of Mosquitoes and Disease Inflicting Insects within the Urban Council Area
THE draft by laws set out below, frame by me as the Provincial Minister in-charge the subject to Local Government under
Section (2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952, read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are hereby published.
Urban Councils are empowered by Pa\ragraphs (b) and (c) of Sub section (9) of Section 157 of the Urban Councils
Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with the section 153 of the said ordinance to make By-laws on eradication of mosquitoes and
disease inflicting insects and the urban Councils of Western Province are empowered to adopt the By-laws in accordance with
the provision of sub section 3 of the Local Authorities Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
P
RASANNA RANATHUNGA
Chief Minister and the Minister - in - Charge of Finance and Planning, Law and
Order, Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Power and Energy, Manpower and Employment, economic, Development of
the Provincial of Western Province
Srawasthi Mandiraya,
Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
On this 09th day of June, 2011.
BY  LAWS
1.  These By-laws may be cited as the By-laws for the improvement of the environmental conditions within the area of
Authority of Urban Council by the prevention of mosquito breeding and disease inflicting insect breeding, and for the
prevention of epidemics within such area of authority.
2.  No person shall do any act or cause any act to be done within the area of authority of any Urban Council which may
cause the breeding of or facilitating the breeding of mosquitoes or any other disease inflicting insects.

<!-- page 7 -->

7A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises whether resident or non-resident, within the area of
authority of a Urban Council to cause__
(a) open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tyres, coconut shells, split coconuts, and any other article or receptacle or
vessel found within such premises to be removed or destroyed ;
(b) gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth
flow of water;
(c) all water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water to be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so as
to make it mosquito-proof and insect-proof and thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects ;
(d) any well found in such premises to be maintained and kept in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of
mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects;
(e) any artificial pond or pool found in such premises to be emptied and cleaned at least once in every week ;
(f) measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected in the drains found in such premises by allowing free
flow of water and with regular maintenance ;
(g) shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation other and those grown for the purpose of food or for
ornamental purposes and found within a range of five loss meters from any building within such premises which
is used as a dwelling place, to be removed in entirety ;
(h) all quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any other pits within such premises and used for any other purpose,
to be maintained in a manner so as to prevent water getting collected in them ;
(i) the removal and destruction of land grown ornamental plants and aquatic plants commonly known as "Diya
parandel", "Penda pasi", "Telpasi", or any other plants or aquatic plants found within such premises which may
facilitate the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects and, prevention of the floating of such plants
along any water course, by the erection of suitable barriers ;
(j) any latrine, ditch, sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found in such premises and its surroundings to be maintained
and kept in good repair so as to make it mosquito proof and prevent the breeding of mosquitoes ;
(k) take necessary measures to prevent water getting collected in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any other
place within such area.
4. The Chairman of the Urban Council or any officer authorized in writing by him may, at any time of the day between
6.00a.m. to 6.00 p. m. enter any premises within the area of Auhority of the Urban Council and inspect such premises to
ensure the following :
__
(i) Whether such premises is a breeding place for mosquitoes ;
(ii) Whether the occupier of such premises has complied with the provisions of the By-laws ;
(iii) Where measures have to be taken to prevent the breeding of and destroy the mosquitoes, what such measures
are ; and
(iv) whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises was a success.
5.  (i)  The Chairman or any officer authorized in writing for the purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises, if
necessary, require the owner or occupier of such premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary to destroy the
mosquitoes and eradicate the conditions favorable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii)  The owner or occupier of a premises to whom a written notice was given under Paragraph (i) shall, comply with such
notice within the period specified in such notice.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
6. (i)  No person who is the owner or occupier of any premises shall, without the written approval of the Chairman,
construct any well, tank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental showers, or any other structure where water can get collected or
stored.
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the provisions of paragraph (i) of this by-law, the Chairman shall, by a
written notice served on the owner or occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such well, tank, pond, water receptacle,
ornamental shower or structure with specified material or destroy otherwise or alter same in the manner specified in such notice
within the period specified in such notice.
7. (i)  Any notice under By-law 5 or 6 may be either duly served by delivering it personally to the owner or occupier of
the premises or by affixing such notice in a conspicuous place in such premises.
(ii)  Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession of any premises and if notice specified in By-law 5 or By-
law 6 is duly served on one of them, all the co-owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to comply with the requirements
of such notice or for non-performance of the requirement of such notice.
(iii)  Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom a written notice has been served under By-law 5 or By-law
6, fails to comply with the requirements of such written notice, the Chairman or any officer authorized for the purpose by him
in writing may, enter such premises at any reasonable time of the day between 6.00 a. m. to 6.00p.m. with any assistants or
servants and carry out or cause to be carried out the work or measures specified in such notice.
(iv)  Where any work or measures specified in a written notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises under
By-law 5 or By-law 6 has been carried out by the Chairman or any officer authorized by him in writing, the expenses incurred
in carrying out such work shall be payable to the Urban Council by such owner of occupier of such premises. The owner or
occupier of the premises shall, within fourteen days from the date of a request under the hand of the Chairman for the payment
of such expenses, to the Urban Council and if he fails to make such payment as requested the provisions of the Part IX of the
Urban Councils Ordinance shall be applicable.
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these by-laws shall be guilty of an offense as per the Urban
Councils Ordinance.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these by-laws
__
"authorized officer" shall mean any officer in an Urban Council authorized in writing by the Chairman of such
Urban Council ;
"Chairman" shall mean the Chairman of the Urban Council ;
"disease inflicting insects" shall mean Mosquitoes and other insects which carries diseases.
"occupier" shall mean a person in occupation of any premises or having the charge, management or control thereof,
whether on his own account or as an agent of any other ;
"owner" shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or any person who has any right to the rent or produce of the
premises ;
"premises" shall mean, any land, house, building, or any construction, or any well, being used or abandoned or any
abandoned ship, container or vehicle and also includes any pond, tank, or any bank of any lake, water course,
drain or river.
07-485/3
WESTERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
The Standard By-laws on Solid  Waste Management
THE draft By-laws set out below, framed by me as the Provincial Minister in-Charge the subject of Local Government under
Section (2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952, read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are hereby published.

<!-- page 9 -->

9A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
Pradeshiya Sabhas are empowered by section 93 and paragraph (b) and (c) of sub-section (ix) of section 126 of the
Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987 to make By-laws read with the section 122 of the said Act on Solid Waste Management
and the Pradeshiya Sabhas of Western Province are empowered to adopt the By-laws in accordance with the provisions of sub
section 3 of the Local Authority Standard By-laws Act No. 6 of 1952.
P
RASANNA RANATHUNGA,
Chief Minister and the Minister in-charge of Finance and Planning, Law and
Order, Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Power and Energy, Man power and Employment, Economic Development of
the Provincial of Western Province.
Srawasthi Mandiraya,
Sir Marcus  Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
On this 09th day of June, 2011.
GENERAL
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to solid waste management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulations, supervision, inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transportation, operation and maintenance of transfer stations, processing, treatment and disposal of  "solid waste"
generated in public  places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within Pradeshiya Sabha limits and all other
incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the Pradeshiya Sabha shall keep the premises free of waste
and in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. The owner of occupier of  any premises situated within the area of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store,
transport and remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause to do so accordance with the provisions
of these By-laws.
5. (i)  Every owner or occupier of a premises shall collect solid waste generated within his own premises daily or in
lesser intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be segreted the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this By - law in accordance with the provisions of By-laws No. 8 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put out
for  collection under the provisions of By-laws 08 to 20 shall be maintained in good condition and not put out for
collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or split when reasonably handled, Pradeshiya Sabhas may provide such
receptacles if they saw wish subsidizing the cost in part or in full according to a decision made by Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(iv)  The owner or occupier shall dispose  any waste collected in the manner provided in sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as determined
and publicly notified from time to time by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v)  The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose of waste materials that are detrimental injurious or to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours, or to the sanitary conditions in that area.
6.  (i)  No person shall discharge waste to a street, road, thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a water reservoir of the sea.
(ii)  No person shall burn waste by damaging the environment in an open space within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(iii)  Where any owner or occupier fails  to obtain permission  in terms of the provisions of By - law No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) W aste not processed, treated or disposed of under the provisions of By - law No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions  of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By - law Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the waste within such premises except;
(a) in areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited by the Pradeshiya Sabha, or
(b) certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya Sabha
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed
in accordance with a plan and standard approved by the Secretary, or treat, process or bury waste in the manner
approved by the Secretary.
(iii) Where any  owner or occupier makes a request to the Secretary for "compost barrel" the Secretary may supply
such equipments subsidizing the cost in part or in full provided the owner or occupier has sufficient space in the
premises to maintain the equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or treat the garden waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable . Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any residual garden waste on payment of a fee specified as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the nature of the disposal waste, to the Secretary.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or
cause them to be removed forthwith.
(vi)  Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare or
in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and disposing
of it in accordance with By - law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house or any other premises shall include in his application
details of solid waste generated in his premises and the manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged
material.
RESIDENTIAL PREMISES
8.  (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the wastes collected by sweeping or by any other method as
      follows:
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung;
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii)  Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for this purpose until removal. Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be kept
in a receptacle made of an impermeable material which will be properly closed preventing the entry of rats, insects
and animals. Waste of animal carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a municipal waste collector
without delay following the payment of a fee to the Secretary as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time for the Pradeshiya Sabha area taking into consideration the nature of the disposable waste.

<!-- page 11 -->

11A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(iii)  Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector, types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If  the occupier fails to do so, he shall together with the type of waste specified in item (c) hand over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector or deposit in bins constructed for each waste type by the Pradeshiya Sabha, or
in bins or other receptacles provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha for such wastes.
9. (i)  Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-storied building with a number of tenements, shall segregate
   their waste as follows:-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung;
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier of  a building specified in paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or receptables in
accordance with standards and specifications approved by the Secretary and shall maintain them in a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii)  Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of sub-
section (ii), the Secretary has the power to require the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such bins or
receptacles on or before a notified date by the Secretary and it is the duty of the owner or occupier to act in
accordance with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put segregated waste into the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v)  It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section
(i) of this By - law, Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (e) shall be handed over to
a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10.  (i)  It is lawful for the Secretary to provide waste bins or receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after obtaining
prior  approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all collected waste from his place of residence, segregated as
follows, into the nearest approved bins or receptacles supplied to his place of residence:
__
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(iii) The Secretary has the power to permit a waste collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of
sub-section (ii) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (c) and (d) shall
be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
SHOPS AND OFFICES
11.  (i)  Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall segregate wastes collected in each complex as follows:-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii)  The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may handover types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-
section (i) of this By - law to an authorized waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex with several storey and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for dipositing or collecting segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in sub-section (iv) of this By - law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized waste
collector, types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) in sub-section (i) of this By - law.
(vi) T ypes of waste specified in  item (i) and any types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of this
By - law, that are not  collected by an authorized collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the
case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, following the payment of a fee to the Secretary by the owner or
occupier as the 
case may be as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins or
receptacles specified in this By - law so as not to cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbours or
persons engaged in services in  such shop or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires-
"Occupier"  means the owner of a shop, or occupier or caretaker of a business or an office,
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and  Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129),
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale, and a place where a barber shop or beauty salon is operated.
HOTELS
12. (i) Any Hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall segregate waste collected at the premises or cause it
to be segregated as follows:
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated
waste and store in a suitable place until removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall pack in a bin or other receptacle made of plastic or
metal properly secured with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects
or any other animal.
(iv) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) in sub-section (i) of this By -law may be handed over to authorized
collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under sub-section (iv) of this By - law and types of waste specified in item (i) shall
be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on payment of a fee by the owner or occupier to the Secretary
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the nature of the waste.
(vi) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Hotel" means a place with or without
sleeping facilities where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of money and it
includes a restaurant, guest house, lodging house, rest house, pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.

<!-- page 13 -->

13A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
VEGETABLE AND FRUIT STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows:
(a) Vegetable, fruit or any other waste not suitable for human consumption;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c)  Hazardous waste;
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made of
impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured properly,  preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animals.  Other waste shall be put into any suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this By - law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector.  Any waste not so handed over together with  types of waste specified in item (c) and (d) of
sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be handed over to Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, on payment of a fee to the
Secretary, as  determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Vegetable and fruit  store" means a place
where vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
MEA T, FISH, POULTRY AND EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers
Ordinance in terms of a license issued by the Secretary for that purpose, at the place specified therein.
(ii) Every license issued under sub-section (i) of this By - law shall specify the type of  animals or birds that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning and
removal of blood, intestines and other parts not taken for human consumption and other condition the Pradeshiya
Sabha may think fit.
(iii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the issue of a license
under sub-section (i) of this By - law payable at time of issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a stall for the sale of meat, fish or egg shall segregate their
waste as follows:
__
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable for human consumption;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d)  Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed in a separate bin or other receptacle.  Types of waste specified in item (a) of
sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly,
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (iv) of this By - law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector.  Any such waste not handed over, together with type of waste specified in item (c) of sub-
section (iv) of this By - law, shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector, following the payment of a fee as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time before the spread of foul odour.
(vii) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Meat, fish or egg stall" means a place where
such items are stored for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
PA VEMENT HAWKING
15. (i) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which generates waste shall keep a bin  or other receptacle for such
waste, in accordance with the standards to be approved by the Secretary.  Any such waste shall not be put on the
pavement or highway or in a public place.
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other receptacle in such a way as to  obstruct movement of vehicles
or pedestrian.
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated by reason of his business as follows:-
(a)  Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste.
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other receptacle.  Types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-
section (iii) of this By - law that may be eaten by insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a secured receptacle,
which shall be kept closed except when required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such types of waste as specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-
section (iii) of this By - law to an authorized collector or together with such types of waste as specified in item (c) of
sub-section (iii) of this By - law to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not be kept, on
a pavement or roadside or highway, when the business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time before waste bins
or other receptacles are handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Pavement hawker" means a person who
sells goods or provides a service on the pavement or roadside.
FACTORIES
16. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect waste generated by such factory within the factory premises
and segregate them as follows:-
(a)  Bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of this By - law may be handed over to an authorized
collector.  Any waste not so handed over, shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, on a payment
of a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time, to the Secretary.
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the conditions set out in the Environmental Protection License
issued under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Factory" has  the same meaning as in the
Factories Ordinance, No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).

<!-- page 15 -->

15A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
EXCA V A TION, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
17.(i) Every person who excavates any street road or any public place or constructs or  demolishes, any structure shall
store such waste so generated within the premises or in a place approved by the Secretary until removal of such
waste from such premises in an  appropriate manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a fee to the Secretary as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) In this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires-
"For the purpose of this By - law, every person engaged in an act of excavation, construction or demolition"
includes any person engaged for such service by an employer,
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in construction from the use of building materials and
waste generated during demolition of any construction.
18. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall  obtain prior approval from the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall take into consideration the arrangements made by the applicant for  the removal of waste, the
quantity of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in a public place after completion of the proposed
job, and the cost of removal of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to giving approval under sub-
section (i) the applicant shall be required to pay a amount equivalent to the estimated cost as a deposit before
approval is granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of waste
shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be set off
from the money deposited under sub-section (ii).
HOSPITALS
19. (i) The owner of a hospital shall segregate or cause to be segregated waste generated within the premises as follows:-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item (d) in this sub-section;
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste;
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) under sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles and
stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of sub-section  (i) shall be
deposited in a bins or any other receptacles specially made for that purpose, and kept in a place set apart for that
purpose, and shall be removed in accordance with the conditions set out in the Environment Protection Licence
issued to that hospital under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) and (e) of sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to the Municipal waste collector, following the payment of a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time.
(iv) In this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires-
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described) used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic,
medical centre, medical laboratory, maternity home and veterinary hospital,
"Hazardous health care waste" means clinical waste, body parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious
waste and sharps.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
OTHER PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious, social, cultural or educational activity or due to maintenance
of such and establishment as follows-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in sub-section (i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect the waste from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may be
subject to a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be handed over to and
authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, along with the type of waste specified in item (c) of
sub-section (i), on payment of a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall take
steps to plan, supervise, control and administer the following-
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains, watercourses
and public markets situated within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or roads and
in all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in a public places, at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a request from
the organizers of such festival on special events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and remove the
waste deposited therein before it becomes a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of the activities specified in the preceding sections and take
action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial, institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin provided by
the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
DUTIES OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
22. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall plan,
supervise, control and administer the following-
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programs or propaganda through media in relation to segregation, collection, storage,
discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction, reuse and recycle activities,

<!-- page 17 -->

17A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge system,
(f) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out collection days, times, methods and fees as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for different types of waste in different areas of the Pradeshiya Sabha. This schedule shall be
publicly notified by the Pradeshiya Sabha. It may include conditions for collection on public holidays,
(g) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to authorized collectors separately, on time and according to
schedule,
(h) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste and any other waste, that has not been handed over to
authorized collectors,
(i) to handover to an authorized collector waste collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains and the cleaning
the public places, and waste collected from public bins and waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha laborers, except
for hazardous waste or other types of waste specified by the Secretary,
(j) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste collectors,
including arrangement for the processing and treatment of part or all food and other bio-degradable, reusable and
recyclable waste as much as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from such operations and other residual
waste of these types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(k) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the Central
Environmental Authority,
(l) to obtain a license or environmental protection license in accordance with the provisions of the National
Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subject to the conditions specified in the license of environmental protection
license to burn waste or to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(m) to provide appropriate, clothing, hand gloves, mouth covers and boots to every employee engaged in sweeping,
collection, segregation, transportation, transfer and disposal of waste,
(n) to check and approved details of the manner of disposal of solid waste generated on construction or renovation
and the manner of storage, process and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the completion of the
specified works where an application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha for the construction or renovation of
a house or other premises,
(o) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for all Pradeshiya Sabha premises,
(p) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy of
Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation which covers at least each calendar year in detail and three
years ahead for final disposal and such plan shall be approved annually on a less frequent basis by the Pradeshiya
Sabha, according to the period it covers,
(q) to investigate any complaint received by the Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities referred to in
items (a) to (p) within three days for any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for any other complaint and
take action forthwith.
PERMITS
23. (i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, biogas  or any other product where any person-
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in terms of the By-
laws as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License, issued in accordance with the provisions of the National Envi-
ronment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) storage place for collected waste constructed in accordance with the standards approved by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,

<!-- page 18 -->

18A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
and without causing nuisance to people,
(e)  agrees to handover to residual or reject waste or any other waste created as by-products during processing or
treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment of a fee the Secretary for
collection of such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time, where the business is carried
out within the Pradeshiya Sabha Limits.
(ii) Where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in writing of the
reasons for such refusal or rejection within thirty days of receipt of the application for the permit.
(iii) The Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period of validity, the type or types of waste permitted to be collected,
the permitted area for collection of such waste and any other appropriate conditions.
(iv) The Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under this By-law in the euent of non compliance of the provisions of
Subseetion (i) of this By-law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit is revoked under the provision of Sub-section (iv), In such
event the Secretary shall give sufficient publicity thorough media in order to bring awareness to the people of the
revocation of such permit.
WASTE DISPOSAL AREAS
24. No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste
disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha for that purpose no deposit any prohibited refuse which the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time may stipulate unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to certain specified condi-
tions.
25. No person shall provides, operate or use any land or facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside
the land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits except  with the prior written approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha
and the Central Environmental Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
OTHER
26. (i) The Secretary any person authorized by him in writing shall have the power, at all reasonable times to enter any
premises and inspect as to whether the owner or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager, or any person residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of his
powers under these By-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these By-laws, unless context otherwise requires-
"Authorized Collector'' means a person who obtains a permit from the Secretary to collect or receive waste under the
provision of these By-laws.
"Authorized Officer'' means any person who has been authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or carry out such
duties under these By-laws,
"Bin or other receptacles'' means any bin, sack, bag, or other container used for waste storage, discharge, collection or
transportation that complies with the requirements set out in these by laws,
"Bio-degradable waste'' means waste that may be degraded or decomposed  by micro-organisms,

<!-- page 19 -->

19A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
"Collection'' means the receipt of waste by an authorized collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for transportation for
refusing, recycling, processing, treatment or disposal facilities,
"Secretary'' means in relation to any Pradeshiya Sabha, means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any person appointed to act as such Secretary or any
officer of such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the powers, Duties
or funcitons of the Secretary to the extent to which such officer is so empowered,
"Compost'' means the final product of the bio degradation of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that could be
functioned as soil conditioner.
"Pradeshiya Sabha'' means .............. Pradeshiya Sabha,
"Pradeshiya Sabha Area'' means the area declared under the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987,
"Discharge'' means where part or all of the waste produced by a person or premises and put out for collection either within
or outside their premises or given to authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collectors,
"Disposal'' means the placement of all waste that is neither re-used, recycled, processed or treated, on or in land where it is
intended to stay permanently,
"Fee'' means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time,
"Food Waste'' means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits and other edible materials that cannot be used for consumption,
"Garden Waste'' means parts removed from trees or plants in a home garden or stones, soil etc removed from a home garden,
"Hazardous Waste'' means waste that is poisonous, corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or infectious in nature,
"Owner or occupier'' includes the owner of the premises or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf of the owner
or an agent or caretaker appointed to manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or recipient of rent and does not
include a manager who acts under the order of another person,
"Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector'' means an employee engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping, collection, receipt
or removal of waste from bins or receptacles or a person who has entered into a contract with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform
such duties.
"Public place'' means a road, ground, public land, road reservation, play ground, public building, cemetery, bus stand,
railway station, river, canal, stream, lake reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway, sea, beach or any other places
commonly used by the public,
"Recyclable waste'' means by waste that can be used to produce new goods by changing their form in the process so that
they are no longer recognizable as waste.
"Reusable Waste'' means waste that can be utilized after washing, disinfection, or cleaning by other means,
"Sanitary landfill'' means the final disposal of waste in a ground in accordance with the accepted standards in Sri Lanka to
minimize the associated social, health and environmental impacts,
"Segregation'' means Separating waste into diflerent types accorring to the categories used in these By-laws,
"Solid waste'' means substances which have no consumer value to person who abandoned them and includes rubbish,
garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain cleanings, dust, soil, mud and ash.
"Storage'' means keeping waste within the premises of an owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public collection
point.
"Transfer station'' means any placed specified by the Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is transferred from
smaller to larger vehicles for the purposes of improving the transportation efficiency of the waste from the transfer station to
any recycling, processing, treatment or disposal  facility,
"Transport" means transporting waste from the collection point to processing treatment or disposal disposal facilities using
sum form of human or animal or mechanically powered vehicle,
"Treat'' means taking any steps or processes to reduce the potential harm or damage they may cause to people or the
environment,
07-485/4

<!-- page 20 -->

20A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
The standard By-laws on Solid  Waste Management
The draft By-laws set out below, framed by me as the Provincial Minister in-charge the subject of Local Government under
section (2) of the local authorities (standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952, read with the section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(consequential provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are here by published.
Urban Councils are empowered by paragraph (b) and (c) of Sub section (9) of section 157 and section 118 of Urban Councils
Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with the section 153 of the said Ordinance to make By-laws on Solid Waste Management and the
Urban Council of Western Province are empowered to adopt the By-laws in accordance with the provisions of sub section 3 of
the Local Authority Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
Prasanna Ranathunga
Chief Minister and the Minister in-charge of Finance and Planing, Law and
Order, Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Power and Energy, Man power and Employment, Economic Development of
the Provincial of Western Province.
On this 09 day of June 2011,
Srawasthi Mandiraya,
Sir Marcus  Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
GENERAL
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to solid waste management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulations, supervision, inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transportation, operation and maintenance of transfer stations, processing, treatment and disposal of  "solid waste"
generated in public  places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within Urban Council limits and all other
incidental activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the Council area shall keep the premises free of waste and in
a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. The owner of occupier of any premises situated within the area of the Council shall collect, segregate, store, transport
and remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause to do so accordance with the provisions of these
By-laws.
5. (i)  Every owner or occupier of any premises shall collect solid waste generated within his own premises daily or in
lesser intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding Sub-section of this By - law in accordance with the provisions of By-laws No. 8 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack bin or other receptacle used by the owner or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put
out for  collection under the provisions of By-laws 08 to 20 shall be maintained in good condition and not put out
for collection, if they are torn, punctured broken or softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or split when reasonably handled, Council may provide such receptacles if they
saw wish subsidizing the cost in part or in full according to a decision made by Council.
(iv)  The owner or occupier shall dispose  any waste collected in the manner provided in sub section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time schedule, operated in a Council area, as determined and
publicity notified from time to time by the Council.
(v)  The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose of waste materials that are detrimental injurious or to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbors, or to the sanitary conditions in that area.

<!-- page 21 -->

21A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road, thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a water way water reservoir of the sea.
(ii)  No person shall burn waste by damaging the environment in an open space within the Urban Council area.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails  to obtain permission  in terms of the provisions of by-law No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may hand over such waste to an authorized col lector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the provisions of by-law No. 7 or any type or waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions  of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with
the provisions of By - law Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the waste within such premises except -
(a) in areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited by the Council, or
(b) certain types of waste specified by the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed
in accordance with a plan and standard approved by the Secretary, or treat, process or bury waste in the manner
approved by the Secretary.
(iii) Where any  owner or occupier makes a request to the Secretary for "compost barrel" the Secretary may supply
such equipments subsidizing the cost in part or in full provided the owner or occupier has sufficient space in
the premises to maintain the equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or treat the garden waste collected within that premises in
a manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable . Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Urban
Council waste collector any residual garden waste on payment of a fee specified as determined by the Council
from time to time taking into consideration the nature of the disposal waste, to the Secretary.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or
cause them to be removed forthwith.
(vi)  Every person shall take stops to prevent any animal under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta passed, that person shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and disposing
of it in accordance with by - law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Urban Council area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house or any other premises shall include in his application
details of solid waste generated in his premises and the manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged
material.
RESIDENTIAL   PREMISES
8. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the wastes collected by sweeping or by any other method as
        follows-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste.
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste.
(d) animal carcasses, body parts or dung.
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(ii)  Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for this purpose until removal. Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be kept
in a receptacle made of an impermeable material which will be properly closed preventing the entry of rats, insects
and animals. Waste of animal carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a waste collector without
delay following the payment of a fee to the Secretary as determined by the Council from time to time for the Urban
Council area taking into consideration the nature of the disposable waste.
(iii)  Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector, types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If  the occupier fails to do so, he shall together with the type of waste specified in item (c) hand over to an urban
waste collector or deposit in bins constructed for each waste type by the Council, or in bins or other receptacles
provided by the Council for such wastes.
9.  (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-storied building with a number of tenements, shall segregate
their waste as follows-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(e) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) animal carcasses, body parts of dung,
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier of  a building specified in paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or receptables in
accordance with standards and specifications approved by the Secretary and shall maintain them in a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii)  Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub-section (ii), the Secretary has the power to require the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such bins
or receptacles on or before a notified date by the Secretary and it is the duty of the owner or occupier to act in
accordance with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v)  It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of
Sub-section (i) of this By - law, Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (e) shall be
handed over to an Urban Council waste collector.
10.  (i)  It is lawful for the Secretary to provide waste bins or receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after obtaining
prior  approval of the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all collected waste from his place of residence, segregated as
follows, into the nearest approved bins or receptacles supplied to his place of residence-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(e) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(iii) The Secretary has the power to permit a waste collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of
sub-section (ii) of this By - law. Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (c) and (d) shall
be handed over to an Urban Council waste collector.

<!-- page 23 -->

23A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
SHOPS  AND  OFFICES
11. (i)Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall segregate wastes collected in each complex as follows-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii)  The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand over types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of
Sub-section (i) of this By - law to an authorized waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex with several storey and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for dispositing or collecting segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in sub-section (iv) of this By - law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or occupier has the right to handed over to an authorized waste
collector, types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) in Sub-section (i) of this By - law.
(vi)  T ypes of waste Specified  in item (i) and any types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of  Sub-section (i) of this
By - law, that are not  collected by an authorized collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the
case may to a urban council waste collector, following the payment of a fee to the Secretary by the owner or
occupier as the case may be as determined by the Council from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins or
receptacles specified in this By - law so as not to cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbors or
persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires-
"Occupier" means  the owner of a shop, or occupier or caretaker of a business or an office.
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chaper 129),
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale, and a place where a barder shop or beauty salon is operated.
HOTELS
12. (i) Any hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shalll  segregate waste collected at the premises or cause it
to be segregated as follows-
(a) food waster and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waster collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated
waste and store in a suitable place until removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall pack in a bin or  other receptacle made of plastic or
metal properly secured with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waster preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects
or any other animal.

<!-- page 24 -->

24A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(iv) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) in Sub-section (i) of this By - law may be handed over to authorized
collector.
(v) Any such waste onto handed over under sub-section (iv) of this By - law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to an Urban Council waste collector on payment of a fee by the owner or occupier to the
Secretary as determined by the Council from time to time taking into consideration the nature of  the waste.
(vi) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Hotel" means a place with or without
sleeping facilities where food  of beverages or liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of money and it
includes a restaurant, guest house, lodging house, rest house, pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.
VEGETABLE  AND  FRUIT  STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows-
(a) vegetable, fruit or any other waste  not suitable for human consumption,
(b) reusable and recycles waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of  Sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made of
impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animals. Other waster shall be put into any suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By - law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over together with types of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of
Sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be handed over to urban council waste collector, on payment of a fee to the
Secretary, as determined by the Council from time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires "Vegetable and fruit store" means a place
where vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
MEA T,  FISH,  POULTRY  AND  EGG  STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers
Ordinance in terms of a license issued by the Secretary for that purpose, at the place specified therein.
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this By - law shall specify the type of animals or birds that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning and
removal of blood, intestines and other parts not taken for human consumption and other condition the Council
may think fit.
(iii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the Council from time to time for the issue of a license under sub-
section (i) of this By - law payable at time of issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a stall for the sale of meat,  fish or egg shall segregate their
waste as follows-
(a) carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable for human consumption,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.

<!-- page 25 -->

25A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed  in a separate bin or other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item (a) of
Sub-section  (iv) of this By - law shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly,
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) T ypes of Waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of  sub-section (iv) of this By - law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not handed over, together with type of waste specified in item (c) of Sub-section
(iv) of this By - law, shall be handed over to an Urban Council waste collector, following the payment of a fee as
determined By the Council from time to time before the spread of foul odor.
(vii) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires "meat, fish or egg stall" means a place where
such items are stored for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
PA VEMENT  HAWKING
15. (i) A  pavement hawker who carries out a business which generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for such
waste in accordance with the standards to be approved by the Secretary. Any such waste shall  not be put on the
pavement or highway or in a public place.
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement  of vehicles
or pedestrian.
(iii)  Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated by reason of his business as follows:-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste.
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item (a) of
Sub-sections (iii) of this By - law that may be eaten by insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle, which shall be kept closed except when required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such types  of waste as Specified in items (a) and (b) of
Sub-section (iii) of this By - law to an authorized collector or together with such types of waste  as specified in items
(c) of sub-section (iii) of this By - law to a Urban Council waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not be kept,
on a  pavement or roadside or highway, when the business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined by the Council from time to time before waste bins or other
receptacles are handed over to an Urban Council waste collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Pavement hawker" means a person who
sells goods or provides a service on the pavement or roadside.
FACTORIES
16.  (i)  Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect waste generated by such factory within the factory
     premises and segregate them as follows:-
(a) Bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of this By - law may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any waste not so handed over, shall be handed over to an Urban Council waste collector, on a  payment of
a fee as determined by the Council from time to time, to the Secretary.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the conditions set out in the Environmental Protection License
issued under the National Environmental  Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Factory" has the same meaning as in the
Factories Ordinance, No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
EXCA V ATION,  CONSTRUCTION  AND  DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street road or any public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure shall
store such waste so generated within the premises or in a place approved by the Secretary until removal of such
waste from such premises in an appropriate manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be handed over to a Urban Council Waste collector on
a payment of a fee to the Secretary as determined by the Council from time to time.
(iii) In this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires
__
"For the purpose of this By - law, every person engaged in an act of excavation, construction or demolition"
     includes any person engaged for such service by an employes.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in construction from the use of building materials and waste
generated during demolition of any construction.
18. (i)   Any person who excavates any street, road or any public place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
      telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall obtain prior approval from the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall take into cosideration the arrangements made by the applicant for the removal of waste,
the quantity of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in a public place after completion of the
proposed job, and the cost of removal of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to giving approval
under sub-section (i) the applicant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent to the estimated cost as a
deposit before approval is granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of waste
shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be set
off from the money deposited under Sub-section (ii).
HOSPITALS
19. (i) The owner  of a hospital shall segregate or couse to be segregated waste generated within the premises as
follows:__
(a) Food waster and other  bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item (d) in this sub-section;
(d) Hazardous health care waste;
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) under Sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles and
stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of Sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bins or any other receptacles specially made for that purpose, and kept in a place set apart for that
purpose, and shall be removed in accordance with the conditions set out in the Environment Protection Licence
issued to that hospital under the National  Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (e) of Sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized collector
or to the municipal waste collector, following the payment of a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
(iv) In this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires:
__
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described) used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home,
clinic, medical centre, medical laboratory, maternity home and veterinary hospital;
"Hazardous health care waste" means clinical waste, body parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious
waste and sharps.

<!-- page 27 -->

27A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
OTHER  PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious, social, cultural or educational activity or due to maintenance
of such an establishment as follows:
__
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in sub-section (i) shall inform the Council in advance, so that special
arrangements may be made to collect the waste from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may be subject
to a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to an
authorized collector or to an Urban Council waste collector, along with the type of waste specified in item (c) of
Sub-section (i), on payment of a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
STREETS  AND PUBLIC  PLACES
21. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and subject to the approval of the Council shall take steps to plan,
supervise, control and administer the following:__
(a) To maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the Urban Council area;
(b) To provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or roads
and in all public places;
(c) To provide mobile waste bins for use in public places, at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Council where the Council decides to do so, or following a request from the organizers
of such festival on special events;
(d) To maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it becomes a nuisance to nearby residents;
(e) To investigate any complaint received in respect of the activities specified in the preceding sections and
take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial, institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin provided
by the Council specifically for litter.
DUTIES  OF  THE URBAN  COUNCIL
22. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and subject to the approval of the Council shall plan, supervise,
control and administer the following:__
(a) To encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle waste;
(b) To conduct awareness programs or propaganda through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste;
(c) To assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged in reuse and recycling activities;
(d) To offer incentives to those involved in the reduction, reuse and recycle activities;

<!-- page 28 -->

28A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(e) To regulate different types of waste discharge system;
(f) To prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out collection days, times, methods and fees as determined
by the Council for different types of waste in different areas of the Urban Council. This Schedule shall be
publicly notified by the Council. It may include conditions for collection on public holidays;
(g) To collect any segregated waste, not hand over to authorized collectors separately, on time and according
to schedule;
(h) To transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors;
(i) To handover to an authorized collector waste collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains and the
cleaning the public places, and waste collected from public bins and waste collected by Council labourers,
except for hazardous waste or other types of waste specified by the Secretary;
(j) To take appropriate measures to deal with segregated waste collected by municipal waste collectors,
including arrangement for the processing and treatment of part or all food and other bio-degradable,
reusable and recyclable waste as much as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from such operations
and other residual waste of these types in a manner, approved by the Secretary;
(k) To dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the Central
Environmental Authority;
(l) To obtain a license or Environmental Protection license in accordance with the provisions of the National
Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subject to the conditions specified in the license or Environmental
Protection License to burn waste or to maintain a sanitary landfill;
(m) To provide appropriate, clothing, hand gloves, mouth covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation, transfer and disposal of wasted;
(n) To check and approved details of the manner of disposal of solid waste generated on construction or
renovation and the manner of storage, process and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the
completion of the specified works where an application is submitted to the Council for the construction or
renovation of a house or other premises;
(o) To prepare an Internal Waste Management Plan for all Council premises;
(p) To prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy
of Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation which covers at least each calendar year in detail and
three years ahead for final disposal and such plan shall be approved annually on a less frequent basis by
the Council, according to the period it covers;
(q) To investigate any complaint received by the Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities referred
to in items (a) to (p) within three days for any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for any other
complaint and take action forthwith.
PERMITS
23.(i) The Council may issue a permit to any person who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures compost,
     bio-gas  or any other product where any person: __
(a) carries out any business within the Urban Council area or in any other local authority area, in terms of the
By-laws as approved by the Council;
(b) possesses and Environmental Protection License, issued in accordance with the provisions of the National
Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980;
(c) storage place for collected waste constructed in accordance with the standards approved by the Council;
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the Council
and without causing nuisance to  people;

<!-- page 29 -->

29A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(e) agrees to handover to residual or reject waste or any other waste created as by- products during processing
or treatment, to the Council as approved by the Council on payment of a fee the Secretary for collection of
such waste as determined by the Council from time to time, where the business is carried out within the
Council Limits.
(ii) Where the Council refuses or rejects to issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in writing of the reasons for
such refusal or rejection within thirty days of receipt of the application for the permit.
(iii) The Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period of validity, the type or types of waste permitted to be collected,
the permitted area for collection of such waste and any other appropriate conditions.
(iv) The Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under this By - law in the event of non-compliance of the provisions
of sub section (i) of this By - law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit is revoked under the provision of sub-section (iv). In such
event the Secretary shall give sufficient publicity through media in order to bring awareness to the people of the
revocation of such permit.
WASTE  DISPOSAL  AREAS
24. No unauthorized person shall enter, loiter, deposit, disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste
disposal area reserved by the Council for that purpose, no deposit any prohibited refuse which the Council from time
to time may stipulate unless authorized by the Council subject to certain specified conditions.
25. No person shall provides, operate or use any land or facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside
the land or facility within the Urban Council limits except  with the prior written approval of the Council and the Central
Environmental Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
OTHER
26. (i) The Secretary, any person authorized by him in writing shall have the power, at all reasonable times to enter any
premises and inspect as to whether the owner or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager, or any person residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of his
powers under these By-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made By the Council from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the Urban Council
Ordinance.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these By-laws, unless context otherwise requires __
"Authorized Collector'' means a person who obtains a permit from the Secretary to collect or receive waste under the
provision of these By-laws.
"Authorized Officer'' means any person who has been authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or carry out
such duties under these By-laws,
"Bin or other receptacles'' means any bin, sack, bag, or other container used for waste storage, discharge, collection
or transportation that complies with the requirements set out in these By-laws,

<!-- page 30 -->

30A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
"Bio-degradable waste'' means waste that may be degraded or decomposed  by micro-organisms,
"Collection'' means the receipt of waste by an authorized collector or Urban Council  waste collecter for transportation for
refusing, recycling, processing, treatment or disposal facilities,
"Secretary'' means in relation to any Urban Council, means the Secretary of the Urban Council constituted under the Urban
Council  ordinance (Chapter 255) for that Urban Council and any person appointed to act as such Secretary or any officer of
such Council, empowered by or under this ordinance, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the power, duties or functions
the secretary to the intend to which such officer is so empowered,
"Compost'' means the final product of the bio - degradation of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that could be
functioned as soil conditioner.
"Council'' means .............. Urban Council,
"Council Area" or "Urban Council area'' means the area declared under the authority of the Urban Council Ordinance
(Chapter 255),
"Discharge'' means where part or all of the waste produced by a person or premises and put out for collection either within
or outside their premises or given to authorized collectors or Urban Council waste collectors,
"Disposal'' means the placement of all waste that is neither re-used, recycled, processed or treated, on or in land where it is
intended to stay permanently,
"Fee'' means some fee determined by the Council  from time to time,
"Food Waste'' means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits and other edible materials that cannot be used for consumption,
"Garden Waste'' means parts removed from trees or plants in a home garden or stones, soil etc. revoved from a home
garden,
"Hazardous Waste'' means waste that is poisonous, corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or infectious in nature,
"Owner or occupier'' includes the owner of the premises or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf of the owner
or an agent or caretaker appointed to manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or recipient of rent and does not
include a manager who acts under the order of another person,
"Public place'' means a road, ground, public land, road reservation, playground, public building, cemetery, bus stand,
railway station, river, canal, stream, lake reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway, sea, beach or any other places
commonly used by the public,
"Recyclable waste'' means by waste that can be used to produce new goods by changing their form in the process so that
they are no longer recognizable as waste.
"Reusable Waste'' means waste that can be utilized after washing, disinfection, or cleaning by other means,
"Sanitary landfill'' means the final disposal of waste in a ground in accordance with the accepted standards in Sri Lanka to
minimize the associated social, health and environmental impacts,
"Segregation'' means separating waste into different types according to the categories used in these By-laws,
"Solid waste'' means substances which have no consumer value to person who abandoned them and includes rubbish,
garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain cleanings, dust, soil, mud and ash.
"Storage'' means keeping waste within the premises of an owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public collection
point.
"Transfer station'' means any place specified by the Council for this purpose where waste is transferred from smaller to
larger vehicles for the purposes of improving the transportation efficiency of the waste from the transfer station to any
recycling, processing, treatment or disposal  facility,
"Transport'' means transporting waste from the collection point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities using sum
form of human or animal or mechanically powered vehicle.
"Treat'' means taking any steps or processes to reduce the potential harm or damage they may cause to people or the
environment,
"Urban Council waste collecter" means an employee engaged by the Council for sweeping, Collection, receipt or removal
of waste from bins or receptacles or a person who has entered into a contract with the Council to perform such duties,
07-485/5

<!-- page 31 -->

31A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
WESTERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
The standard By-laws on Solid  Waste Management
The draft By-laws set out below, framed by me as the Provincial Minister in-charge the subject of Local Government under
section (2) of the local authorities (standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952, read with the section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(consequential provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, are here by published.
Municipal Councils are empowered by paragraph (b) of sub section (5) of section 272 and section 129 of Municipal
Councils Ordinance (Chapter 252) read with the section 267 of the said Ordinance to make By-laws on Solid Waste Management
and the Municipal  Councils of Western Province are empowered to adopt the By-laws in accordance with the provisions of
Sub section 3 of the Local Authority Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
Prasanna Ranathunga
Chief Minister and the Minister in-charge of Finance and Planning, Law and
Order, Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Power and Energy, Man power and Employment, Economic Development of
the Provincial of Western Province.
On this 09 day of June 2011,
Srawasthi Mandiraya,
Sir Marcus  Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
GENERAL
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to solid waste management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulations, supervision, inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transportation, operation and maintenance of transfer stations, processing, treatment and disposal of  "solid waste"
generated in public  places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within Municipal limits and all other incidental
activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the Council area shall keep the premises free of waste and in
a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. The owner of occupier of any premises situated within the area of the Council area shall collect, segregate, store,
transport and remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause to do so accordance with the provisions
of these By-laws.
5. (i)  Every owner or occupier of a premises situated shall collect solid waste generated within his won premises daily or
     in lesser intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other method.
(ii) Every owner or o ccupier shall segregate or cause to be segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this By - law in accordance with the provisions of By-laws No. 8 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack bin or other receptacle used by the owner or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put
out for  collection under the provisions of By-laws 08 to 20 shall be maintained in good condition and not put out
for collection, if they are torn, punctured broken or softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or split when reasonably handled, Council may provide such receptacles if they
saw wish subsidizing the cost in part or in full according to a decision made by the Council.
(iv)  The owner or occupier shall dispose  any waste collected in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time schedule, operated in a Council area, as determined and
publicly notified from time to time by the Council.
(v)  The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose of waste materials that are detrimental injurious or to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbors, or to the sanitary conditions in that area.

<!-- page 32 -->

32A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
6.  (i)  No person shall discharge waste to a street, road, thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or the sea.
(ii)  No person shall burn waste by damaging the environment in an open space within the Municipal  Council Area.
(iii)  Where any owner or occupier fails  to obtain permission  in terms of the provisions of By - law No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) W aste not processed, treated or disposed of under the provisions of By - law No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions  of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the waste within such premises except.
(a) in areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited by the Council, or
(b) certain types of waste specified by the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed
in accordance with a plan and standard approved by the Commissioner, or treat, process or bury waste in the
manner approved by the Commissioner.
(iii) Wh ere any  owner or occupier makes a request to the Commissioner for "compost barrel" the Commissioner may
supply such equipments subsidizing the cost in part or in full provided the owner or occupier has sufficient space
in the premises to maintain the equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or treat the garden waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Commissioner as far as practicable . Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Municipal
waste collector any residual garden waste on payment of a fee specified as determined by the Council from time to
time taking into consideration the nature of the disposal waste, to the Commissioner.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or
cause them to be removed forthwith.
(vi)  Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare or
in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and disposing
of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Municipal  Council Area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house or any other premises shall include in his application
details of solid waste generated in his premises and the manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged
material.
RESIDENTIAL  PREMISES
8. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the wastes collected by sweeping or by any other method as
 follows:-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste
(c) hazardous waste
(d) animal carcasses, body parts or dung
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.

<!-- page 33 -->

33A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(ii)  Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for this purpose until removal. Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be kept
in a receptacle made of an impermeable material which will be properly closed preventing the entry of rats, insects
and animals. Waste of animal carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a municipal waste collector
without delay following the payment of a fee to the Commissioner as determined by the Council from time to time
for the Municipal  Council Area taking into consideration the nature of the disposable waste.
(iii)  Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector, types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If  the occupier fails to do so, he shall together with the type of waste specified in item (c) hand over to a
Municipal Waste Collector or deposit in bins constructed for each waste type by the Council, or in bins or other
receptacles provided by the Council for such wastes.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-storied building with a number of tenements, shall segregate
their waste as follows:-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste
(c) hazardous waste
(d) animal carcasses, body parts or dung
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier of  a building specified in paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved by the Commissioner and shall maintain them in a clean
and sanitary condition.
(iii)  Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of sub-
section (ii), the Commissioner has the power to require the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such bins
or receptacles on or before a notified date by the Commissioner and it is the duty of the owner or occupier to act
in accordance with the requirements of the Commissioner.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put segregated waste into the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v)  It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section
(i) of this By-law, Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (e) shall be handed over to
a Municipal Waste Collector.
10.  (i) It is lawful for the Commissioner to provide waste bins or receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after obtaining
prior  approval of the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all collected waste from his palce of residence, segregated as
follows, into the nearest approved bins or receptacles supplied to his place of residence-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste
(c) hazardous waste
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(iii) The Commissioner has the power to permit a waste collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b)
of Sub-section (ii) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (c) and (d) shall
be handed over to a Municipal Waste Collector.

<!-- page 34 -->

34A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
SHOPS  AND  OFFICES
11.  (i)  Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall segregate waste collected in each complex as follows:-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste
(c) hazardous waste
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii)  The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand over types of waste specified in Items (a) and (b) of sub-
section (i) of this By-law to an authorized waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex with several storey and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Commissioner for depositing or collecting segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized waste
collector, types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) in Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(vi)  T ypes of waste Specified in item (i) and any types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of this
By-law, that are not  collected by an authorized collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the case
may to a Municipal  waste collector, following the payment of a fee to the Commissioner by the owner or occupier
as the case may be as determined by the Council from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By - law so as not to cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbors or
persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires-
"Occupier" means  the owner of a shop, or occupier or caretaker of a business or an office.
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129),
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale, and a place where a barber shop or beauty salon is operated.
HOTELS
12. (i) Any hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall  segregate waste collected at the premises or cause it
to be  segregated as follows:-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste.
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste.
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated
waste and store in a suitable place until removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall pack in a bin or  other receptacle made of plastic or
metal properly secured with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects
or any other animal.

<!-- page 35 -->

35A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(iv) T ypes of waster specified in items (a) and (b) in sub-section (i) of this By - law may be handed over to authorized
collector;
(v) Any such waste not handed over under sub-section (iv) of this By - law and types of waste specified in item (i) shall
be handed over to a Municipal Council waste collector on payment of a fee by the owner or occupier to the
Commissioner  as determined by the Council from time to time taking into consideration the nature of  the waste;
(vi) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Hotel" means a place with or without
sleeping facilities where food  of beverages or liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of money and it
includes a restaurant, guest house, lodging house, rest house, pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.
VEGETABLE  AND  FRUIT  STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows:__
(a) vegetable, fruit or any other waste  not suitable for human consumption;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) dust and other dry waster collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made of
impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animals. Other waste shall be put into any suitable bin or other receptacle;
(iii) Types of waste specified in items ( a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this By - law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over together with types of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of
sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be handed over to Municipal council waste collector, on payment of a fee to the
Commissioner, as determined by the Council from time to time;
(iv)  For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires "Vegetable and fruit store" means a place
where vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
MEA T,  FISH,  POULTRY  AND  EGG  STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers
Ordinance in terms of a license issued by the Commissioner  for that purpose, at the place specified therein;
(ii) Every license issued under sub-section (i) of this By - law shall specify the type of animals or birds that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning and
removal of blood, intestines and other parts not taken for human consumption and other condition the Council may
think fit;
(iii) The Commissioner may charge a fee as determined by the Council from time to time for the issue of a license under
sub-section (i) of this By - law payable at time of issue;
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a stall for the sale of meat,  fish or egg shall segregate their
waste as follows
__
(a) carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable for human consumption;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) dust and other dry waster collected after sweeping the premises.

<!-- page 36 -->

36A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed  in a separate bin or other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-
section (iv) of this By - law shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly,
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution;
(vi) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of  sub-section (iv) of this By - law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not handed over, together with type of waste specified in item (c) of sub-
section (iv) of this By - law, shall be handed over to an Municipal Council waste collector, following the payment of
a fee as determined by the Council from time to time before the spread of foul odour;
(vii) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires "meat, fish or egg stall" means a place where
such items are stored for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
PA VEMENT  HAWKING
15. (i) A  pavement hawker who carries out a business which generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for such
waster, in accordance with the standards to be approved by the Commissioner. Any such waste shall  not be put on
the pavement or highway or in a public place;
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement or vehicles
or pedestrian;
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated by reason of his business as follows
__
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste.
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-
section (iii) of this By - law that may be eaten by insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a secured receptacle,
which shall be kept closed except when required to place additional waste inside;
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such types  of waster as specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-
section (iii) of this By - law to an authorized collector or together with such types of waste  as specified in items (c)
of sub-section (iii) of this By - law to a municipal  waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not be kept, on a
pavement or roadside or highway, when the business is not in operation;
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined by the Council from time to time before waste bins or other
receptacles are handed over to a municipal waste collector;
(vii) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Pavement hawker" means a person who
sells goods or provides a service on the pavement or roadside.
FACTORIES
16. (i)  Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect waste generated by such factory within the factory premises
 and segregate them as follows__
(a) Bio-degradable waste;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) Hazardous waste;
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of this By - law may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any waster not so handed over, shall be handed over to municipal waste collector, on a  payment of a fee
as determined by the Council from time to time, to the Commissioner;

<!-- page 37 -->

37A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the conditions set out in the Environmental Protection License
issued under the National Environmental  Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business;
(iv) For the purpose of this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires, "Factory" has the same meaning as in the
Factories Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
EXCA V ATION,  CONSTRUCTION  AND  DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street road or any public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure shall
store such waste so generated within the premises or or in a place approved by the Commissioner  until removal of
such waste from such premises in an appropriate manner;
(ii) The waste referred to in sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be handed over to a Municipal council waste collector
on a payment of a fee to the Commissioner as determined by the Council from time to time;
(iii)  In this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires
__
"For the purpose of this By - law, every person engaged in an act of excavation, construction or demolition"
includes any person engaged for such service by an employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in construction from the use of building material and waste
generated during demolition of any construction.
18. (i)  Any person who excavates any street, road or any public place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
 telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall obtain prior approval from the Commissioner.
 (ii) The Commissioner  shall take into consideration the arrangements made by the applicant for the removal of waste,
the quantity of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in a public place after completion of the proposed
job, and the cost of removal of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to giving approval under sub-
section (i) the applicant shall be required to pay a amount equivalent to the estimated cost as a deposit before
approval is granted.
HOSPITALS
19. (i) The owner  of a hospital shall segregate or cause to be segregated waste generated within the premises as follows__
(a) food waste and other  bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item (d) in this sub-section;
(d) hazardous healthcare waste;
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) under sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles and
stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bins or any other receptacles specially made for that purpose, and kept in a place set apart for that
purpose, and shall be removed in accordance with the conditions set out in the Environment Protection license
issued to that hospital under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) and (e) of sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to the Municipal waste collector, following the payment of a fee as determined by the Council from time
to time.
(iv) In this By - law, unless the context otherwise requires
__
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described) used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing and
treatment of persons or animals suffering from any illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic, medical
centre, medical laboratory, maternity home and veterinary hospital,
"Hazardous health care waste " means clinical waste, body parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious
waste and sharps.

<!-- page 38 -->

38A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
OTHER  PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious, social, cultural or educational activity or due to maintenance
of such an establishment as follows-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste.
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste.
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in sub-section (i) shall inform the Council in advance, so that special
arrangements may be made to collect the waste from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may be subject
to a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this By - law shall be handed over to an
authorized collector or to a municipal waste collector, along with the type of waste specified in item (c) of sub-
section (i), on payment of a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
STREETS  AND  PUBLIC  PLACES
21. (i) The Commissioner in consultation with the Mayor and subject to the approval of the Council shall take steps to
plan, supervise, control and administer the following-
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the Municipal area.
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or roads and
in all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in a public places, at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Council where the Council decides to do so, or following a request from the organizers of
such festival on special events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and remove
the waste deposited therein before it becomes a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of the activities specified in the preceding sections and take
action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial, institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin provided
by the Council specifically for litter.
DUTIES  OF  THE  URBAN  COUNCIL
22. (i) The Commissioner in consultation with the Mayor and subject to the approval of the Council shall plan, supervise,
control and administer the following-
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programs or propaganda through media in relation to segregation, collection, storage,
discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction, reuse and recycle activities,

<!-- page 39 -->

39A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge system,
(f) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out collection days, times, methods and fees as determined by
the Council for different types of waste in different areas of the Municipality. This schedule shall be publicly
notified by the Council. It may include conditions for collection on public holidays,
(g) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to authorized collectors separately, on time and according to
schedule,
(h) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste and any other waste, that has not been handed over to
authorized collectors,
(i) to handover to an authorized collector waste collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains and the
cleaning the public places, and waste collected from public bins and waste collected by Council labourers,
except for hazardous waste or other types of waste specified by the Commissioner,
(j) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated waste collected by municipal waste collectors, including
arrangement for the processing and treatment of part or all food and other bio-degradable, reusable and
recyclable waste as much as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from such operations and other residual
waste of these types in a manner, approved by the Commissioner,
(k) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner approved by the Commissioner, in consultation with the Central
Environmental Authority,
(l) to obtain a license or environmental protection license in accordance with the provisions of the National
Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subject to the conditions specified in the license or environmental
protection license to burn waste or to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(m) to provide appropriate, clothing, hand gloves, mouth covers and boots to every employee engaged in sweeping,
collection, segregation, transportation, transfer and disposal of waste,
(n) to check and approved details of the manner of disposal of solid waste generated on construction or renovation
and the manner of storage, process and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the completion of the
specified works where an application is submitted to the Council for the construction or renovation of a house
or other premises,
(o) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for all council premises,
(p) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy of
Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation which covers at least each calendar year in detail and three
years ahead for final disposal and such plan shall be approved annually on a less frequent basis by the
Council, according to the period it covers,
(q) to investigate any complaint received by the Mayor and the Commissioner regarding the activities referred to
in items (a) to (p) within three days for any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for any other complaint
and take action forthwith.
PERMITS
23. (i) The Council may issue a permit to any person who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures compost,
bio-gas  or any other product where any person-
(a) carries out any business within the Municipal area or in any other local authority area, in terms of the By-laws
as approved by the Council,
(b) possesses and Environmental Protection License, issued in accordance with the provisions of the National
Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) storage place fro collected waste constructed in accordance with the standards approved by the Council,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected waste in a sanitary manner  as approved by the Council and
without causing nuisance to  people,

<!-- page 40 -->

40A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
(e) agrees to handover to residual or reject waste or any other waste created as by- products during processing or
treatment, to the Council as approved by the Council on payment of a fee the Commissioner for collection of
such waste as determined by the Council from time to time, where the business is carried out within the
Municipal Council Limits.
(ii) Where the Council refuses or rejects to issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in writing of the reasons for
such refusal or rejection within thirty days of receipt of the application for the permit.
(iii) The Commissioner  shall indicate in the permit, the period of validity, the type or types of waste permitted to be
collected, the permitted area for collection of such waste and any other appropriate conditions.
(iv) The Commissioner shall revoke the permit issued under this By - law in the event of non-compliance of the
provisions of subsection (i) of this By - law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit is revoked under the provision of sub-section (iv). In such
event the Commissioner shall give sufficient publicity thorough media in order to bring awareness to the people of
the revocation of such permit.
WASTE  DISPOSAL  AREAS
24. No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste
disposal area reserved by the Council for that purpose no deposit any prohibited refuse which the Council from time
to time may stipulate unless authorized by the Council subject to certain specified conditions.
25. No person shall provides, operate or use any land or facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside
the land or facility within the Municipal Council limits except  with the prior written approval of the Council and the
Central Environmental Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
OTHER
26 (i) The Commissioner or any person authorized by him in writing shall have the power, at all reasonable times to enter
any premises and inspect as to whether the owner or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of these By-
laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager, or any person residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Commissioner or any authorized officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Commissioner or an authorized officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Council from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the Municipal
Council Ordinance.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these By-laws, unless context otherwise requires-
"Authorized Collector'' means a person who obtains a permit from the Commissioner to collect or receive waste under the
provision of these By-laws.
"Authorized Officer'' means any person who has been authorized in writing by the Commissioner  to execute or carry out
such duties under these By-laws,
"Bin or other receptacles'' means any bin, sack, bag, or other container used for waste storage, discharge, collection or
transportation that complies with the requirements set out in these by laws,

<!-- page 41 -->

41A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
"Bio-degradable waste'' means waste that may be degraded or decomposed  by micro-organisms,
"Collection'' means the receipt of waste by an authorized collector or Municipal waste collector for transportation for
refusing, recycling, processing, treatment or disposal facilities,
"Commissioner'' means in relation to any Municipality means the Municipal Commissioner of the Municipal Council
constituted under the Municipal Council  Ordinance (Chapter 252) for that Municipality and includes any Deputy or Assistant
Municipal Commissioner of such Council and any person appointed to act as such Municipal Commissioner or such Deputy
or Assistant Municipal Commissioner or any officer of such council empowered by or under this Ordinance,  to exercise,
perform or discharge any of the powers, duties or functions of the Commissioner to the extent to which such officer is so
empowered,
"Compost'' means the final product of the bio degradation of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that could be
functioned as soil conditioner.
"Council'' means .............. Municipal Council,
"Council Area" or "Municipal area'' means the area declared under the authority of the Municipal Council Ordinance
(Chapter 252),
"Discharge'' means where part or all of the waste produced by a person or premises and put out for collection either within
or outside their premises or given to authorized collectors or Municipal waste collectors,
"Disposal'' means the placement of all waste that is neither re-used, recycled, processed or treated, on or in land where it is
intended to stay permanently,
"Fee'' means some fee determined by the Council  from time to time,
"Food Waste'' means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits and other edible materials that cannot be used for consumption,
"Garden Waste'' means parts removed from trees or plants in a home garden or stones, soil etc revoved from a home garden,
"Hazardous Waste'' means waste that is poisonous, corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or infectious in nature,
"Municipal waste Collector'' means an employee engaged by the Council for sweeping collection, receipt or removal of
waste from bins or receptacles or a person who has entered into a contract with the Council to perform such duties.
"Owner or occupier'' includes the owner of the premises or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf of the owner
or an agent or caretaker appointed to manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or recipient of rent and does not
include a manager who acts under the order of another person,
"Public place'' means a road, ground, public land, road reservation, playground, public building, cemetery, bus stand,
railway station, river, canal, stream, lake reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway, sea, beach or any other places
commonly used by the public,
"Recyclable waste'' means by waste that can be used to produce new goods by changing their form in the process so that
they are no longer recognizable as waste.
"Reusable Waste'' means waste that can be utilized after washing, disinfection, or cleaning by other means,
"Sanitary landfull'' means the final disposal of waste in a ground in accordance with the accepted standards in Sri Lanka
to minimize the associated social, health and environmental impacts,
"Segregation'' means the separating waste into different types according to the categories used in these By-laws,
"Solid waste'' means substances which have no consumer value to person who abandoned them and includes rubbish,
garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain cleanings, dust, soil, mud and ash.
"Storage'' means keeping waste within the premises of an owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public collection
point.

<!-- page 42 -->

42A IV ^w& jeks fldgi : Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'05
PART IV (A) GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2011
"Transfer station'' means any placed specified by the Council for this purpose where waste is transferred from smaller to
larger vehicles for the purposes of improving the transportation efficiency of the waste from the transfer station to any
recycling, processing, treatment or disposal  facility,
"Transport'' means transporting waste from the collection point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities using sum
form of human or animal or mechanically powered vehicle
"Treat'' means taking any steps or processes to reduce the potential harm or damage they may cause to people or the
environment,
07- 485/6
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.