

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"272 - 2022 ud¾;= ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2022.03'18
No. 2,272 –  FriDAY , 18  mArch,  2022
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy, GAzETTE,
AtteNtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th April, 2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th March, 2022.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.,
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2022.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
389 - B 082325 - 5,403 (03/2022)
Note.—  Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of 11th March, 2022.
N. B.–    Part IV (A) of the of the Gazette No. 2271 of 11.03.2022 was not published.
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … -
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 392 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
390
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
regulations, the establishments code, Departmental orders or regulations 
and any other orders or regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
391
Rules  and   Instructions  for  candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
392
Posts - vacant 
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages/
Additional marriages (kandyan /General) Sinhala 
medium
Colombo District
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of 
Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages for the 
divisions set out in the shcedule hereof ;
 
01.  Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant 
Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages 
Division and entitled to reasonable properties and 
should be a person with outstanding personality who 
has acquired sufficient interest and influence amongst 
the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this 
post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not 
more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04.  Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages 
should be married and should not be a Widow/widower 
or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects 
including Sinhala Language with 02 Credit passes 
in not more than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) 
examination together with the ability to perform duties 
in secondary language as per the language requirement 
of the populate within the division or else should have 
passed in any other similar examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE 
(O/L) or any other similar examination, it 
shall be considered as one subject and pass 
is applicable only if the applicant passes both 
parts of the said subject.
 
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office 
in a centrally located building that ensures respect of 
the post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. Additional details such as village name list/Grama 
Niladhari Divisions of the relevant division of Births, 
Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages relevant 
educational and other qualifications required for 
this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited 
in public places within the division such as District 
Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant land and 
District Registries, Grama Niladhari offices, Smurdhi 
Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted 
in the shcedule hereunder.
08. Relevant applicaiton and the said "Annex - 01" 
inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari 
Divisions could be collected from District Secretariat 
(GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or 
Divisional Secretariat. Applications could also be 
downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk)  
of the registrar General's Department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or 
before 18.04.2022 by registered post to the address 
given in the shcedule.
  
P. S. P. abeywardhana,
  registrar General.
registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
24th February, 2022.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
393
SCHEDULE
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post & Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
colombo thimbirigasyaya Post of Registrar of Marriages 
(General) Wellawatta Area of 
colombo Division
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Colombo.
colombo colombo Post of Registrar of Marriages 
(General) St. Sebastian Place of 
colombo Division
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Colombo.
03 - 129
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births and Deaths - Sinhala medium
kalutara District
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths for the divisions set out in the shcedule hereof ;
 
01.  Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Registrar of Births and Deaths Division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04.  Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not more 
than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar 
examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
05. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensure respect of the post 
and enable easy access by all or majority of residents.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
394
 Under circumstances where there is no adequate office facilities provided within the hospital premises, recruited 
candidate for post of the Registrar of Births and Deaths, should be able to establish his/her office at a suitable building 
located in the close proximity within 01 km from the Hospital.
06. Additional details such as village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant division of Births and Deaths, 
relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited in public 
places within the division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, 
Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
07. Relevant application and the said "Annex - 01" inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from he official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's Department.
08. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18.04.2022 by registered post to the address given in the 
schedule.
  
P. S. P. abeywardhana,
  registrar General.
registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
24th February, 2022.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post & Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kalutara Panaduara Post of Births and Deaths Registrar 
of Wadduwa Town Division
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
03 - 130
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births and Deaths - Sinhala medium
Gampaha District
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths for the Divisions set out in the schedule hereof ;
 
01.  Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Registrar of Births and Deaths Division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
395
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04.  Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not more 
than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar 
examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
05. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensure respect of the post 
and enable easy access by all or majority of residents.
 Under circumstances where there is no adequate office facilities provided within the hospital premises, recruited 
candidate for post of the Registrar of Births and Deaths, should be able to establish his/her office at a suitable building 
located in the close proximity within 01 km from the Hospital.
06. Additional details such as village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant division of Births and Deaths, 
relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited in public 
places within the division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, 
Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
07. Relevant application and the said "Annex - 01" inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the registrar General's Department.
08. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18.04.2022 by registered post to the address given in the 
schedule.
  
P. S. P. abeywardhana,
  registrar General.
registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
24th February, 2022.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
396
SCHEDULE
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post & Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Gampaha Negombo Post of Births and Deaths Registrar 
of Negombo Town (Outer of the 
Hospital) Division.
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Gampaha.
03 - 131
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
(Sinhala/Tamil) 
kalutara District
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereof;
 
01.  Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages Division and entitled to reasonable properties 
and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence amongst the 
residents of the area.
02. Only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04.  Appllicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil (relevant language for the post) with 
02 Credit passes in not more than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform 
duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have 
passed in any other similar examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 (Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification.)
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
397
07. Additional details such as village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant division of Muslim Marriage, 
relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited in public 
places within the division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, 
Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant applicaiton and the said "Annex - 01" inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the registrar General's Department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18.04.2022 by registered post to the address given in the 
schedule.
     
P. S. P. abeywardhana,
     registrar General.
registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
24th February, 2022.
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post & Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Muslim Marriages 
Registrar of Kalutara and Panadura 
thotamuna Division of maradana 
Area
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Panadura Post of Muslim Marriages 
Registrar of Kalutara and Panadura 
thotamuna Division of eluwila 
Area
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Palinda Nuwara Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar 
of Pasdun Koralaya East Division 
of Pelena Area
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Muslim Marriages 
Registrar of Kalutara and 
Panadura Thotamuna Division of 
maggonabadda Area
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Additional Muslim 
Marriages Registrar of Kalutara 
and Panadura Thotamuna Division 
of mihiripenna Area
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
398
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Muslim Marriages 
registrar of Kalutara and 
Panadura Thotamuna Division of 
mihiripenna Area
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Muslim Marriages 
Registrar of Kalutara and Panadura 
thotamuna Division of Darga 
town Area
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Bulathsinhala Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar 
of Pasdun Koralaya East Division 
of Weyangalle Area
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Panadura Post of Muslim Marriages 
Registrar of Kalutara and Panadura 
thotamuna Division of thotawatta 
Area.
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
03 - 132
 SRI  LANkA  NAvy
Vacancies For the Sri Lanka Volunteer Naval Force Research Officers - 2022
1. Vacancies are existed in the Sri Lanka V olunteer Naval Force for male/female officers.
2. Applications are called from male/female candidates for following vacancies at Centre for Defence Research and 
Development under Ministry of Defence.
a.  ChIEf COORDINATOR(PROJECTS) – mARINE WING
Rank  - Captain / Commander (male/ female).
Educational qualification             - Professor / Doctor level in the field of Mechanical / Marine Engineering and  
   possess a minimum of 05 years experience in the same field.
Age  - Below 50 years.
b.  PROJECT INSPECTOR – NANO AND mODERN TEChNOLOGy WING 
Rank  - Lieutenant Commander (male/ female).
Educational qualification             - Master level in the field of Nano Technology and possess a minimum of  
   05 years experience in the same field.
Age  - Below 40 years.
3. Other Requirements :
Candidates should fulfil following general conditions for the enlistment to the Sri LankaVolunteer Naval Force : 
a. Nationality  -  Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
b. Height  - Male  -  should not be less than 65 inches.
   Female -  should not be less than 63 inches.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
399
c. Weight -  Male -  should not be less than 52 kg.
    Female  - should not be less than 41 kg.
d. Chest -  Male  -  should not be less than 32 inches.
e. Colour vision -  STD II.
 
f. Visual acuity -  Left  eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (with  or without spectacles /contact lenses)
g. Educational qualification  - Should  have  passed the GCE (O/L) Examination with  credits including  
  Mathematics and English in not more than two sittings.
  -  Should  have  obtained  minimum  qualification for  university entry based  
  on the G.C.E (A/L) Examinations results. (A certified copy of the results sheet  
  issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations should be sent along  
  with the application form)
h. Civil status  - Married/ unmarried 
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in field of research.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfil the aforesaid requirements of paragraph 2.and 3. will be rejected. On arrival 
for the first interview height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight are below 
the standards specified in the Gazette notification will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill 
or value to the naval service may be considered at the discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy even though 
the candidate may not have the requisite height and age.
6. Conditions of service :
a.  Candidates will be enlisted into the Sri Lanka V olunteer Naval Force as male /female officers and will undergo 
basic training. The duration of the course will depend on the branch for which the enlistment is made.
b.  Enlisted male/female officers will be required to undergo training at any place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by 
the Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
c.  All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any country of the world at any time.
d.  During the period of training and thereafter, male/female officers will be subjected to Naval Law.
e.  In the event a male / female officer voluntarily terminates his/her candidature during the training, he/she will be 
required to refund to the government of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the government of Sri 
Lanka on account of such male/female officer.
f.  If at any time during the period of training a male/ female officer is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable 
for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her control to qualify for the commission, he/she will be 
required to refund to the Sri Lanka Navy all expenses carried on his/ her training and will be required to enter into 
a bond to this effect with the Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy acting on behalf of the government of Sri Lanka.
g.  During the period of training,male / female officers will be provided with food and accommodation by the 
wardrooms of the Sri Lanka Navy.
h.  Married male/female officers may be provided with married quarters if available. Recovery of rental will be as 
applicable to public servants.
7. Official language requirements :
  The selected candidates will be required to comply with regulations and articles already made or may 
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
400
8.  Pay and allowances :
 The payments will be made with effect from 01.01.2020 as per the Management Services Circular No. 03/2016.
DESCRIPTION
LIEuTENANT 
COmmANDER
(Rs.)
COmmANDER 
(Rs.)
CAPTAIN
(Rs.)
Basic salary 60,965.00 62,595.00 76,175.00
cost of living 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00
Uniform allowance 525.00 525.00 525.00
Hard line allowance 600.00 600.00 600.00
Additional allowance 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00
Special adjustment allowance 3,000.00 3.000.00 3,000.00
total 73,890.00 75,520.00 89,100.00
a.  Ration Money Allowance will be given only to male/female officers who are victual out.
b.  Qualification pay, where applicable, will be given up to a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month.
c.  Three sets of Holiday Railway Warrant per year will be issued (for a male/female officer, spouse, children and 
dependents if applicable).
d.  Duty Railway Warrants will be issued or imbursement of bus fare for officers living in to visit their homes once a 
month.
e.  Uniforms and ancillary items will be issued free of charge.
f.  Medical facilities will be provided free of charge (for a male/female officer, spouse, children and dependents if 
applicable).
g.  Married male/female officers who do not occupy government married quarters, will be entitled to a rent allowance 
of rs. 3,200.00 to rs. 7,700.00.
9.  Instructions to candidates:
a. Applications should be in the form of the specimen given below and should be completed clearly in detail in the 
applicant’s own handwriting. Duly completed applications should be forwarded to Senior Staff Officer (Recruiting), 
Navy Headquarters, P.O. Box 593, Colombo-01 under registered cover on or before 12 00hrs on 31st march 2022.
The top left corner of the envelope containing the application should bear“Research Officers–Sri Lanka V olunteer 
Naval Force”. Applications received after the closing date and time and applications that do not comply with the 
requirements stipulated in the Gazette notification will not be entertained. For further information please visit the 
website www.navy.lk or call 011-7195154/ 011-7195118.
b.  Candidates who are in government service (Departments / Corporations / Boards/ Civil Establishments) should 
forward their applications through the Heads of Departments (Departments / Corporations / Boards / Civil 
Establishments) with a certificate that the candidate will be released if selected.
c. Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents in the interview or any other 
occasion and certified copies of the following documents when forwarding the applications :
(1) Certificate of registration of birth.
(2) Certificates of educational/ higher educational/ professional educational/ degree qualifications required for 
the branch applied for.
(3) School leaving certificate and character certificate obtained from school.
(4) Grama Niladhari certificate obtained within six months.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
401
(5). Certificates of professional/ technical experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(6). Two recent character certificates (from responsible person who knows the applicant for more than two years or 
the present employer).
d. Applications of candidates who fail to produce the aforesaid documents when requested will not be considered.
e. Original copies of documents should not been enclosed with the application.
f. The Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for the loss of any originals of certificates if  enclosed with the 
application.
10.  Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification or 
dismissal when the false statement is revealed before the selection or after the selection respectively.
11. Selection Interviews
 
a. Candidates who fulfil the above requirements should undergo a preliminary medical test conducted by the Sri 
Lanka Navy. Candidates those who pass will be required to undergo a  Physical Endurance Test as mentioned 
below :
b. Requirements to pass the Physical Endurance Test;
AGE GROuP
(yEARS) SEX PuSh uPS 
(WIThIN 2 mINS)
CuRL uPS
(WIThIN 2 mINS)
2.4 km RuN 
(mINuTES)
18 - 24
male 27 25 11
Female 11 19 12 
25 - 29
male 24 23 13 
Female 9 17 15 
30 - 34
male 20 21 15 
Female 8 15 17 
35- 39
male 18 19 16 
Female 7 13 18
40 -44
male 16 17 17 
Female 6 11 19 
45 - 49
male 14 15 18 
Female 5 9 20 
c. Only the candidates who successfully complete the Physical Endurance Test will be called for subsequent 
interviews. However, candidates in lower standard than expected in Physical Endurance Test may be considered 
with the discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy.
d. Candidates selected for the interviews will be informed of the date, time and place of such interviews in 
writing by post / E-mail. Travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
e. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview, he/she should produce his/her National Identity 
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
f. Candidates likely to be qualified after the final interview will be required to present themselves before a Sri 
Lanka Navy Medical Board.
g. Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him/her a testimonial. Any form 
of canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such 
candidate.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
402
h.  Selected applicants will be attached to Centre for Defence Research and Development under Ministry of 
Defence as Naval Research Officers.
j. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
Note :  This Gazette notification is published in Sinhala and English. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and 
English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
     
 DNS ULUGETENNE, RSP*, VSV , USP, ndc, psc 
 Vice Admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
 
Naval Headquarters,
P.O. Box 593,
colombo 01.
09th March, 2022.
APPLICATION fOR vOLuNTEER mALE / fEmALE OffICERS IN ThE SRI LANkA NAvy
1.  Nationality : ……………………………………....................……………………………………….................................
 (State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if registration, quote number and date of the 
certificate)
2.  Post applied for : ……...............................…………………………………...........…………………................................
3.  Full name (as per the National Identity Card) : …......................…………………………………….................................
4.  National Identity Card number : …………………….........................……………………………….................................
5.  Permanent address : ………………………………........................………………………………….................................
6.  Postal address : ……………………………........................…………………………………………................................
7.  E-mail address : ……………….......................………………………………………………………................................
8.  Date of birth : .......................…………………………………………………………………………................................
9.  Age : Years ….....…....…............... Months ….....…....…............... Days ….....…....…..............  (as at 31st March 2022)
10.  Height:………….....(inches) Chest:……...........…..(inches)Weight:…………............(kg.)
11.  Nearest Police Station to permanent address: …...................……………………………………….
12.  District: ………………………….....................……………………………………………………..
13.  Electorate: ………………………......................…………………………………………………….
14.  Grama Niladhari Division: ……....................……………………………………………….……….

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
403
15.  Telephone (Whatsapp) number: ……………......................………………………………………..
16.  Civil status:……………....................………………………………………………………………
17.  Gender:……....................…………………………………………………………………………..
18.  Schools attended: ……......................……………………………………………………………….
19.  Particulars of school or university attended: ………….......................……………………………..
NAmE Of ThE SChOOL /
uNIvERSITy
TyPE Of 
EXAmINATION
yEAR Of 
EXAmINATION
SubJECTS PASSED 
(INCLuDING GRADING)
G.C.E (O/L)
G.C.E (A/L)
other
20.  Particulars of employment since leaving school/university (if applicable) : 
NAmE & ADDRESS Of 
EmPLOyER NATuRE Of EmPLOymENT PERIOD Of SERvICE
TO fROm
21.  Particulars of parents :
fuLL NAmE PLACE Of bIRTh OCCuPATION PRESENT ADDRESS
Father
mother
22.  Any special qualification for the post : …...................………………………………………………................................
23. Details of available achievements in sports. (give details of competitions and sports teams participated in with dates and 
achievements) : ……................................…………………..............................................................................................
24.  Other achievements at  school/ university or in outside organizations. (give details with dates/years etc.) :……………
……………………........................................……….…………………...........................................................................
25. Any previous service in the Armed Forces or V olunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scouts Association : ………………
……………………............................…………………………………............................................................................
 
26.  Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or any of the  Armed Services or  Police? If so give details and the 
outcome of such applications :…....................................…….........................…....…………………..…………………
…………………………………................................……................................................................................................
27.  Have you had a  conviction or received a  suspended sentence  by a civil  or military  court? If  so give details : ………
…………………………………………………………………………………................................................................
28.  Have you employed in a government department / board/ corporation /establishment of public service (including the 
Central Bank / state banks / universities / civil organizations / companies controlled by the government etc.)? If so give 
details reasons for termination of employment. …………………….........................……………………………………
……………........................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'03'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2022
404
29. Particulars of testimonials :
NAmE DESIGNATION POSTAL  ADDRESS
30.  Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
 I declare on my honour that aforesaid details given by me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I 
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the regulations which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Navy published in the Gazette of the government of Sri 
Lanka.
 ....................................... .......................................................,  
 Date Signature of applicant.
03 - 242
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.