

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of September 02, 2022
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 07.09.2022)
SRI LANKA NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR UNESCO
BILL
Ordered to be published by the Minister of Education
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 45.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
to provide for the establishment of the Sri Lanka National Commission
for  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization
(UNESCO); and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
A

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
Short title
20
L.D.—O 46/2008
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA
NATIONAL COMMISSION    FOR  THE  UNITED  NATIONS  EDUCATIONAL,
SCIENTIFIC  AND  CULTURAL  ORGANIZATION (UNESCO); AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka National
Commission for UNESCO Act, No. …………… of 2022.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR
UNESCO
2. (1) There shall be established a Commission which
shall be called the Sri Lanka National Commission for
UNESCO (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”).
(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.
3. The objects of the Commission shall be:-
(a) to provide the required forum for international
and intellectual co-operation, through the
facilitation of a globally connected networking
system pertaining to field of competencies of
UNESCO ;
(b) to facilitate the exchange of information in areas
related to education, science, culture, mass
media and communication through local,
regional and global programmes organized by
UNESCO, thus acting as a clearing house for
information in the related fields of
competencies of UNESCO ;
Establishment
of the
Sri Lanka
National
Commission
for UNESCO
Objects of
the
Commission
25

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO2
5
10
15
20
25
30
(c) to assist the relevant ministries in the follow
up and monitoring of the implementation of
guidelines which are embodied in the wide
range of UNESCO Conventions, to which Sri
Lanka is a party;
(d) to encourage and facilitate access to strategies
which permit the acquisition of knowledge
through information from research documents,
publications and best practices amongst
UNESCO beneficiaries; and
(e) to assist in building capacities of the national
institutions in education, science, culture, mass
media and communication by conducting
workshops, seminars and conferences.
4. The powers, duties and functions of the Commission
shall be –
(a) to advice the Government of Sri Lanka on matters
relating to UNESCO programmes and projects;
(b) to promote and disseminate among UNESCO
beneficiaries in Sri Lanka an understanding of the
objects, functions and purposes of UNESCO
programmes and projects and to conduct meetings,
seminars and lectures for that purpose;
(c) to work towards the achievement of the objects of
the Commission with the co-operation of the
relevant government and local autonomous bodies,
international non governmental organizations,
United Nations agencies, governmental and non
governmental organizations, private and public
sector institutions;
(d) to organize programmes in the fields of education,
science, culture, mass media, communication and
other relevant disciplines including programmes
Powers,
duties and
functions of
the
Commission

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
20
25
30
focused on capacity building within the relevant
ministries and to assist in monitoring and evaluating
such programmes;
(e) to enhance partnerships with the public, private
and non-governmental stakeholders including
partnerships with the United Nations systems;
(f) to disseminate information on and recommend
candidates for UNESCO awards, fellowships and
study grants;
(g) to mobilize and receive funds for the
implementation of programmes;
(h) to open and maintain, current, savings and deposit
accounts in any bank or banks;
(i) to accept gifts, grants or donations from local or
foreign sources, whether in cash or otherwise, for
the purpose of discharging the functions of the
Commission:
Provided that, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in any other provisions of this Act, the
Commission shall obtain prior written approval of
the Department of External Resources in respect of
all foreign grants, gifts or donations in cash;
(j) to acquire and hold, take or give on lease, mortgage
or hire, pledge or sell or otherwise dispose of, any
movable or immovable property for the purpose of
discharging the functions of the Commission; and
(k) enter into and perform all such contracts as may be
necessary for the exercise, performance and
discharge of the powers, duties and functions of the
Commission.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO4
5
10
15
20
25
5.  The Commission shall consist of-
(a) the following ex- officio members, namely-
(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
or an additional Secretary of such Ministry;
(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Higher Education or
an additional Secretary of such Ministry;
(iii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Technology or his
nominee;
(iv) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Cultural and
Religious Affairs or his nominee;
(v) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Mass Media or his
nominee;
(vi) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Finance or his
nominee;
(vii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Foreign Relations or
his nominee;
(viii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Environment or his
nominee;
(ix) the Chairman of the University Grants
Commission established by the Universities
Act, No. 16 of 1978;
(x) the Secretary General of the Sri Lanka
National Commission for UNESCO;
Constitution
of the
Commission
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
20
25
30
(xi) the Chairman of the National Science
Foundation established by the Science and
Technology Development Act, No. 11 of
1994.
(b) three members appointed by the Minister from
among persons who have distinguished themselves
in the fields of education, natural science, social
and human science, technology, culture, business
and industry, communication, peace, human rights,
Law, Public Administration, journalism,
environment protection, performing arts, music or
literature (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed
members”).
6. (1) The Minister shall be the Chairperson of the
Commission.
(2) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister shall be
the Vice Chairperson of the Commission.
(3) The Vice Chairperson shall hold office of the
Commission, as long as he holds the office by virtue of
which he has been appointed to the Commission.
(4) Where the Chairperson is temporarily unable to
exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and
functions of his office due to ill health, other infirmity,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Vice
Chairperson may act as the Chairperson in addition to his
normal duties as the Vice Chairperson.
7. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Commission, if he-
(a) is or becomes a member, of Parliament, any
Provincial Council or any local authority;
(b) is not, or ceases  to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
Chairperson
and Vice
Chairperson
of the
Commission
Disqualifications
for being
appointed or
continuing as
a member of
the
Commission

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO6
5
10
15
20
25
30
(c) is a person who, having been declared an insolvent
or a bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or in any
other country, is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt;
(d) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country found or declared to be of unsound mind;
(e) is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude
and punishable with imprisonment for a term not
less than six months;
(f) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by a court of Sri Lanka or any other country;
(g) holds or enjoys any right or benefit under any
contract made by, or on behalf of the Commission;
(h) has any financial or other interest as is likely to
affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as a member of the Commission; or
(i) is absent from three consecutive meetings of the
Commission without the permission of the
Commission.
8. Every appointed member of the Commission shall,
unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or
removal, hold office for a period of three years from the date
of his appointment and shall, unless he has been removed
from office be eligible for re-appointment for not more than
one further term, whether consecutive or otherwise.
9. (1) Any appointed member of the Commission may
at any time, resign his office by letter in that behalf addressed
to the Minister, and such resignation shall take effect from
the date on which the resignation is accepted in writing by
the Minister.
Terms of
office of the
appointed
members of
the
Commission
Removal,
resignation
etc. of
appointed
members

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
20
25
(2) The Minister may, for reasons assigned remove any
appointed member from office. An appointed member who
has been removed from office shall not be eligible for re-
appointment as a member of the Commission or to serve the
Commission in any other capacity.
(3) In the event of the vacation of office by death,
resignation or removal of any appointed member, the
Minister shall subject to the provision of section 5(b) appoint
another person to fill such vacancy and such person shall
hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of
the member whom he succeeds.
(4) Where any appointed member of the Commission is
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office on
account of ill health or any other cause or if he is absent from
Sri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, the
Minister shall subject to the provisions of section 5( b)
appoint any other person to act in place of such member
during his absence.
(5) Where any appointed member of the Commission fails
to attend three consecutive meetings of the Commission
without notifying his absence in advance  to the  Chairperson,
such member shall be deemed to have vacated his office and
the Minister shall appoint another person to fill such vacancy
subject to the provisions of section 5( b).
10. (1) The quorum for any meeting of the Commission
shall be seven members and every meeting of the
Commission shall be presided by the Chairperson. In the
absence of the Chairperson from any meeting of the
Commission, any member elected by the members present
shall preside at such meeting of the Commission.
(2) A meeting of the Commission may be held either-
(a) by the number of members who constitute a
quorum being assembled at the place, date and
time appointed for the meeting; or
Quorum  and
the Meetings
of the
Commission
30

<!-- page 9 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO8
5
10
15
20
25
(b) by means of audio - visual communication by
which all members participating and constituting
a quorum can simultaneously see and hear each
participating member for the duration of the
meeting.
(3) All questions for decision at any meeting of the
Commission shall be decided by the vote of the majority of
members present and voting at such meeting. In the case of
an equality of votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition to
his vote, have a casting vote.
(4) The Commission shall meet at least once in every
year. However, special or extraordinary general meetings
may be convened, if and when required.
(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,
the Commission may make rules to regulate the procedure
in regard to the conduct of meetings of the Commission and
the transaction of business at such meetings.
11. The Commission may act, notwithstanding any
vacancy among its members, and any act or proceeding of
the Commission shall not be, or deemed to be, invalid by
reason only of the existence of any vacancy among its
members or any defect in the appointment of a member
thereof.
12 . The members of the Commission shall be
remunerated in such manner and at such rates as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister assigned the subject of finance.
13. (1) The seal of the Commission–
(a) shall be in the custody of such person as the
Commission may decide from time to time;
Acts or
proceedings
of the
Commission
deemed not
to be invalid
by reason of
any vacancy
Remuneration
of members
of the
Commission
Seal of the
Commission
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
20
25
(b) may be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the Commission;
(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or
document except with the sanction of the
Commission and in the presence of two
members of the Commission who shall sign
the instrument or document in token of their
presence.
(2) The Commission shall maintain a register of the
instruments and documents to which the seal of the
Commission has been affixed.
14. (1) The Commission may appoint in consultation with
relevant authorities,  such number of committees and experts
as it considered necessary or expedient to assist in the
exercise, performance and discharge of powers, duties and
functions conferred on, assigned to or imposed on, the
Commission by this Act.
(2) The committees appointed under subsection (1) shall
be–
(a) committee on Education;
(b) committee on Natural Science;
(c) committee on Social and Human Science;
(d) committee on Culture;
(e) committee on Communication and Information;
and
(f) intersectoral committee  falling within the field of
competences of UNESCO.
Establishment
of
Committees

<!-- page 11 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO10
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) The members of the committees appointed under
subsection (1), shall possess such qualifications and
experience in the fields of education, science, technology
and innovation, economics or finance, culture,
communication and infrastructure, law, public
administration, mass media, oceanography, sustainable
development, journalism, environment protection,
performing arts, music or literature , cultural heritage and
museums or any other relevant field.
(4) A committee appointed under subsection (1), shall
regulate the procedures for the transaction of its business
and of its meetings.
(5) The members of every committee and experts
appointed under subsection (1), shall be paid such allowances
and be reimbursed for any expenses incurred in connection
with the carrying out of any duties assigned, as the
Commission may determine with the concurrence of the
Minister assigned the subject of finance.
(6) The members of the committees may or may not be
permanent members of the Commission as the Commission
may determine.
(7) The Commission may require a committee appointed
under this section to act jointly or in cooperation with any
other committee of the Commission.
15. (1) The duties and functions of the Committees
established under section 14, to assist the relevant Ministries
and the concerned stakeholders shall be as follows:-
(a) the committee on Education to–
(i) focus on three fundamental areas for
achieving education for all literacy, teachers
and skills for the world of work, support in
boosting functional literacy and in the design
Duties and
functions of
the
Committees

<!-- page 12 -->

11Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
20
25
30
and implementation of effective policies and
systems for training and retaining teachers to
meet current and future demands;
(ii)  promote technical and vocational education
and training (TVET) and skills development
for the world of work, through upstream
policy work;
(iii) provide capacity development, technical
support and policy advise in the different
stages of education, from early childhood to
higher education, furthering lifelong learning
to support building, strengthening and
managing effective education systems;
(iv)  support in preparing, renewing and managing
the implementation of sector wide plans
inclusive of policies in education, and address
issues such as health, environment, economy
and society, which will have an impact on
the entire education sector;
(v)  provide information and assistance for the
implementation of recommendations from
UNESCO’s initiatives at the regional and
global levels, covering the education sector
from early child care to higher education; and
(vi) have recourse to UNESCO category I
Institutes in Education, viz, UNESCO
International Bureau of Education (IBE),
UNESCO International Institute for
Educational Planning (IIEP), UNESCO
Institute for Life Long Learning (UIL) and
UNESCO Institute for Information
Technologies in Education (IITE).

<!-- page 13 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO12
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) the committee on Natural Science to –
(i) provide policy advise and capacity building
in science, technology and innovation for
sustainable development and poverty
eradication by-
(a) enhancing the leverage of science
through integrated science, technology
and innovation policy; and
(b) strengthening science, education and
capacity building in basic engineering
and applied sciences;
(ii) develop capacities for sustainable
management of freshwater, ocean and
terrestrial resources as well as disaster
preparedness and mitigation to counter global
warming and climate change through-
(A) promoting the sustainable management
and conservation of freshwater,
terrestrial resources and biodiversity, as
well as disaster resilience; and
(B) improving governance and fostering
inter-governmental cooperation to
manage and protect oceans and coastal
zones;
(iii) have recourse to UNESCO, Institute for Water
Education (IWE), International Centre for
Theoretical Physics (ICTP), and other
UNESCO specialized programmes and
commissions such as the International
Oceanographic Commission (IOC),
International Hydrology Programme (IHP),
International Geo-Science Programme (IGCP)

<!-- page 14 -->

13Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
20
25
30
and Man and Biosphere Programme (MAB),
with a view to making important contributions
to the area of the sciences; and
(iv) enhance partnerships with the public, private
and governmental stakeholders including
multi bilateral, in the field of science and
technology for sustainable development, in
order to create improved synergies between
all key players.
(c) the committee on Social and Human Science to-
(i) respond to critical national, regional and
global social challenges by-
( A ) promoting human rights through
programmes in Education, Science,
Culture, Mass Media and
Communication by fostering dialogue
on emerging social issues;
(B) strengthening research and policy
linkages in the field of social
transformation with a view to providing
scientific policy responses to the likely
social impact of evolving financial and
economic crisis at national, regional
and international levels through
dialogue between policy makers and
research communities, which may cover
issues on migrant labour and rapid
urbanization; and
(C) promote policies on physical
education, sports and anti doping; and
(ii) address emerging global ethical issues, by
developing policies in the ethics for science
and technology, especially, bio-ethics.

<!-- page 15 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO14
5
10
15
20
25
30
(d) the committee on Culture to-
(i) protect, safeguard and manage the tangible
and intangible cultural heritage by way of-
(A) protecting and conserving cultural
and natural heritage properties, in
particular, through the effective
implementation of the World Heritage
Convention guidelines;
(B) safeguard the living heritage,
particularly through the promotion
and implementation of the UNESCO
2003 Convention guidelines on
Intangible Cultural Heritage, which
covers areas such as myths, beliefs,
rituals, practices, cultural spaces,
processions, dances, theatre, drama,
chants, modes of communication;
(C) enhance the protection of cultural
objects and the fight against their
illicit trafficking, notably through the
promotion and the implementation of
the 1970 and 2001 UNESCO
conventions, as well as through the
development of museums;
(D) safeguard the Underwater Cultural
Heritage through the implementation
of the 2001 UNESCO Convention.
(ii) promote the diversity of cultural expressions
and the dialogue of cultures, with a view to
fostering a culture of peace, through-
(A) the implementation of the guidelines
of the UNESCO 2005 Convention on

<!-- page 16 -->

15Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
20
25
the Protection and Promotion of the
Diversity of Cultural Expressions and
through the development of cultural
and creative industries;
(B) the integration of intercultural
dialogue and cultural diversity into
national policies, to promote dialogue
and diversity and to bring the role of
culture to the forefront in
development.
(e) the committee on Communication to–
(i) promote freedom of expression and
information by way of enhancing access to
information through advocacy and
monitoring;
(ii) build capacities for universal access to
information and knowledge through-
(A) strengthening free, independent and
pluralistic media and
communication for sustainable
development by increasing media
content and information literacy and
promotion of the right to
information;
(B) fostering universal access to
information and knowledge by the
development of appropriate
information structures and Media
Resources Training Centers and the
use of information communication
technologies in knowledge
acquisition and sharing.
30

<!-- page 17 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO16
5
10
15
20
25
(f) the intersectoral committee to coordinate with the
UNESCO, in collaboration and partnership with the
national institutions in education, science, culture,
mass media and communication.
(2) Any Committee may co-opt other persons whose
knowledge and experience it may find necessary for the
performance and discharge of the duties and functions.
PART II
A
PPOINMENT OF THE SECRETARY GENERAL , DEPUTY SECRETARY
GENERAL AND THE SAFF OF THE COMMISSION
16. (1) The Minister shall appoint a person who shall
have not less than fifteen years of academic or professional
experience in the fields of education, natural science, social
and human science, culture, communication or
administration, as the Secretary General of the Commission.
(2) The Secretary General shall be the Chief Executive
Officer of the Commission and shall be responsible for the
affairs of the Commission including-
(a) the day to day operations of the Commission;
(b) the management of the funds of the Commission;
(c) the administration and management of the property
of the Commission; and
(d) the supervision and control of the officers and other
staff of the commission.
(3) The Secretary General shall, submit for the
consideration of the Minister, programmes and measures
considered by him to be necessary for the purpose of
exercising, performing and discharging the powers, duties
and functions of the Commission.
Appointment
of the
Secretary
General of
the
Commission

<!-- page 18 -->

17Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
20
25
(4) The Secretary General shall be entitled to be present,
speak and vote, at any meeting of the Commission, or any
other Committee established under this Act.
(5) The Secretary General shall ensure that sufficient
transparency is maintained in carrying out his duties and
functions.
(6) The Secretary General shall submit to the Commission,
the three years work plan, the annual plan and programme
and the annual budget, for its concurrence.
(7) The Secretary General may be paid such remuneration
in such manner and at such rates as may be determined by
the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister assigned
the subject of finance.
17. (1) The Minister shall appoint a person who shall
have ten years of academic or professional experience in the
fields of education, natural science, social and human
science, culture, communication or administration as the
Deputy Secretary General of the Commission.
(2) The Deputy Secretary General shall assist the Secretary
General to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties
and functions the Commission.
(3) The Deputy Secretary General may be paid such
remuneration in such manner and at such rates as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister assigned the subject of finance.
 18. (1) The Secretary General and the Deputy Secretary
General shall hold office for a period of three years and shall
be eligible for re-appointment.
(2) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove the
Secretary General or the Deputy Secretary General from
office.
Appointment
of the
Deputy
Secretary
General of
the
Commission
Term of
office of the
Secretary
General and
the Deputy
Secretary
General
30

<!-- page 19 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO18
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) The office of the Secretary General and the Deputy
Secretary General shall become vacant upon the death,
removal from office or resignation by letter addressed to the
Minister.
(4) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the Secretary
General, the Minister may appoint the Deputy Secretary
General to perform the duties of the Secretary General, until
an appointment is made to such post.
19. (1) The Commission may appoint such number of
officers and employees as it may consider necessary for the
efficient exercise, and discharge of its powers and functions,
with the prior approval of the Department of Management
Services.
(2) The Commission may in respect of the officers and
employees appointed under subsection (1), exercise
disciplinary control over or dismiss such officers and
employees and determine the terms and conditions of
employment of such officers and employees.
(3) The officers and employees appointed to the
Commission shall be remunerated in such manner and at
such rates, in consultation with the Minister assigned the
subject of Finance and shall be subject to such conditions of
service as may be determined by the Commission, in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules
made thereunder.
(4) The Commission may establish and regulate provident
fund schemes for the benefit of the officers and servants of
the Commission who may be recruited outside of the
government service and may make contributions to any such
scheme.
Staff of the
Commission

<!-- page 20 -->

19Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
5
10
15
20
25
20. (1) At the request of the Secretary General and with
the concurrence of the Minister, any officer in the public
service may, with the consent of that officer and of the Public
Service Commission be temporarily assigned to the staff of
the Commission for such period as may be determined by
the Commission with like consent, or be permanently
appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
assigned to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis ,
apply to, and in relation to such officer.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis ,
apply, to and in relation to such officer.
21. (1) At the request of the Commission, any officer or
other employee of any higher educational institution
established under the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 may,
with the consent of that officer or the employee and the
principal executive officer of that higher educational
institution, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Commission. Such appointment shall be for a period as may
be determined by the Commission or with like consent be
permanently appointed to such staff, on such terms and
conditions, including those relating to pension or provident
fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Commission and
such principal executive officer.
(2) Where any person is temporarily appointed to the
staff of the Commission under subsection (1) such person
shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as any other
member of the staff of the Commission.
Appointment
of public
officers to
the staff of
the
Commission
Appointment
of officers
from higher
educational
institutions to
the
Commission
30

<!-- page 21 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO20
PART III
FINACE
22. The initial capital of the Commission–
(a) shall be such sum as may be determined by
Parliament by way of a resolution; and
(b) may be increased by such amounts as may
be authorized by an Appropriation Act or
by any resolution of Parliament.
23. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund.
(2) The Fund of the Commission shall comprise of-
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted
from time to time by Parliament;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received
by the Commission by way of interest on
investments, donations, gifts or grants from
any source whatsoever, whether within or
outside Sri Lanka:
Provided however, the Commission shall
obtain the prior written approval of the
Department of External Resources of the
Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Finance, in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made and loans,
donations, gifts, bequests, and grants
received from any source within Sri Lanka
shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund
and shall thereafter, with the approval of
the Parliament, be credited to the Fund of
the Commission;
Capital of the
Commission
Fund of the
Commission
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 22 -->

21Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
(c) all sums of money received as income from
investments made by the Commission.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission-
(a) all such sums of money as are required to defray
any expenditure incurred by the Commission in
the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act;
(b) all such sums of money as are required to be
paid out of the Fund by or under this Act.
24. The Commission may open and maintain any
account with any bank as it may think appropriate, and such
account shall be operated in accordance with the prevailing
financial regulations of the Government.
 25. Any moneys belonging to the Commission may be
invested by the Commission in such manner and collect the
income accruing from such investments as may be determined,
subject to such directions as may be given by the Minister.
26. (1) The financial year of Commission shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Commission shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Commission.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to, and in relation to the audit of the accounts of
the Commission.
PART IV
G
ENERAL
27. (1) The Minister may from time to time give such
general or special directions in writing to the Commission
5
10
15
20
25
30
Commission
to maintain
accounts
Investment
of the
moneys of
the
Commission
Financial
year and
Audit of the
accounts of
the
Commission
Directions of
the Minister

<!-- page 23 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO22
as to the exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties
and functions of the Commission and it shall be the duty of
the Commission to comply with such directions.
(2) The Minister may from time to time, Order all or any
of the activities of the Commission to be investigated and
reported upon by such person or persons as he may specify,
and upon such Order being made, the Commission shall
afford all such facilities and furnish all such information to
such person or persons as may be necessary to give effect to
such Order.
28. The Commission shall, within a period of six months
after the closure of each financial year, submit a report giving
a full account of its activities during that year to the Minister
who shall cause such report to be placed before Parliament,
prior to the end of the year next following the year to which
such report relates.
29. All members of the Commission, officers and
employees of the Commission shall be deemed to be public
servants within the meaning and for the purpose of the Penal
Code (Chapter 19).
30. The Commission shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act
(Chapter 26) and the provisions of that Act shall be
construed accordingly.
31. (1) Any expense incurred by the Commission in
any suit or prosecution brought by or against the
Commission before any court shall be paid out of the Fund
of the Commission, and any costs paid to, or recovered by,
the Commission in any such suit or prosecution shall be
credited to the Fund of the Commission.
(2) Any expense incurred by any person in any suit or
prosecution brought against him before any court in respect
of any act which is done by him under this Act, or on the
5
10
15
20
25
30
Commission
report to be
placed before
Parliament
All members
of the
Commission
etc. deemed
to be public
Servants
Commission
deemed to be
a Scheduled
Institution
Protection
for action
taken under
this Act or on
the directions
of the
Commission

<!-- page 24 -->

23Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
direction of the Commission shall, if the court holds that
such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund the
Commission, unless such expense is recovered by him in
such suit or prosecution.
32. (1) The Commission may make rules in respect
of–
(a) the appointment, employment and dismissal of
officers and their powers, duties and functions;
(b) the procedure to be observed at the summoning
and holding of meetings, annual general meeting
and extraordinary meetings of the Commission;
(c) the administration and management of the affairs
of the Commission;
(d) all matters in respect of which, rules are required or
authorized to be made under this Act.
(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall be
approved by the Minister.
(3) Every rule so approved shall be published in the
Gazette and shall come into operation upon such publication.
33. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
authorized to be made under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette, and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, within
three months from its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any such regulation, which
5
10
15
20
25
Rules
Regulations

<!-- page 25 -->

Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO24
is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from
the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded under subsection (3), shall be
published in the Gazette.
34. In this Act, unless the context otherwise required:-
“expert” means a professional with specialized
competence in any one of the areas of UNESCO
programmes;
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject
of Education under Article 44 or 45 of the
Constitution;
“UNESCO” means United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization;
“UNESCO Programmes” means the five UNESCO
areas of competence and includes Education,
Natural Sciences, Social and Human Sciences,
Culture and Communication and Information.
35. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
Interpretation
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 26 -->

25Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING