

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1959$6 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 21 jeks i÷od - 2016'03'21
No. 1959/6  -  MONDAY  MARCH  21,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Rules
1. These Rules shall be cited as the Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka, No. 01 of 2014.
2.The Council shall decide the place, where the Registered Office of the Institute shall be
maintained.The registered office of the Institute shall normally be situated in the District of Colombo
but the Council shall reserve the power to shift the registered office to any other district in Sri Lanka,
by a decision of the Council.
3.The membership of the Institute shall consist of Corporate Members, Non-Corporate
Members and Foreign Members.
4. (1) Corporate Members of the Institute shall be those Members who hold the title of
“Fellow” and “Members”.
(2) Applicants seeking validation as Corporate Members shall hold-
(a) a B.Sc. special degree in Geology ; or
(b) a B.Sc. general degree with geoscience as a subject, Master’s (M) level (MSc or
MPhil) or Doctorate (D) level in the field of geosciences awarded by a recognized
Title
Registered Office
Membership
Corporate Members
THE   INSTITUTE   OF   GEOLOGY,   SRI   LANKA   (INCORPORATION)
ACT,   No.  3   OF 2014
RULES made by the Institute of Geology by virtue of the powers vested in it by section 7 of the institute of Geology, Sri
Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.3 of 2014 .
HITIHAMI M UDIYANSELAGE  R ANJITH P REMASIRI ,
General Secretary,
Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka.
Colombo,
1st of March, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
2A
university or institution of higher education approved by University Grants
Commission of Sri Lanka or in any cognitive subjects according to Sri Lanka
Qualification Framework (SLQF) as set out in the Schedule A to these Rules.
(3) The Council will not accept applications for validation as a Corporate Member from a
professional who do not hold a recognised degree or equivalent qualifications.
(4) In the event of a dispute relating to the cognate subjects, the determination of the Council
shall be final.
(5) As a guide to applicants, and based on past experience of evaluating  applications for
validation, the Institute has set out in the Schedule to these rules, guidance concerning the relationships
between first degree and post-graduation experience that has typically enabled applicants to successfully
demonstrate the required competencies. This should  be considered as general guidance as to the minimum
relevant experience needed for eligibility to apply.
(6) A list of those candidates whom the Council has decided as eligible for admission as
Corporate Member (Fellow or Member) under Section 4.2 of Rules and Regulations shall be published
and circulated to all Corporate Members. After the lapse of two (2) weeks from the date of such
publication, during which time the Secretary will be prepared to receive for report to the Council,
communications respecting the qualifications or character of any candidate, the Council if satisfied that
he is a fit and proper person to become a Fellow or a Member shall declare the candidate admitted.
(7) Every Corporate Member after admission shall if so desires, shall at the first general
meeting at which the Member attends, be introduced by the President or Chairman at such meeting.
5. Every person seeking admission as a Fellow shall :-
(i) be more than 45 years of age;
(ii) be a member or a person who has fulfilled the conditions and qualifications as set
out in the Schedule A to these Rules, as are necessary to be admitted to the grade of
“Member; and
(iii) have either-
(a) a minimum of six (06) years experience in the field of Geology or a cognate
subject as specified in the Schedule Ato these Rules,and have rendered sufficient
contribution, to the Institute for its upliftment, in a  manner recognized and
acceptable to the Council; or
(b) knowledge of Geology and has acquired such eminence in the profession, as in
the opinion of the Council qualifies such person to be admitted as a Fellow.
6. Every person seeking admission to the grade of Member shall :-
(i) be more than 30 years of age; and
(ii) have attained such standards, requirements and has a relevant degree and education
with sufficient professional training and practical experience as set out in the Schedule
to these Rules;
and
Fellows
Members

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
3A
(iii) be a person, who for the time being is a Member for three years in the grade of
Associate Member of the Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka, who by virtue of such
membership is entitled to be admitted to the grade of Member, by formal application
and a selection procedure.
7. (1) Honorary Fellows, Associate Members, Licentiates, Students and Institutional Members
shall be non-corporate members and the eligibility and other requirement for admission to these
grades shall be as described in these Rules.
(2) Non-Corporate members shall not be entitled to attend or vote at General Meetings
of the Institute or to requisition or sign in requisitioning any General Meeting but shall be entitled to
serve as a member of any special committee
8. (1) The Council shall have the power to admit distinguished and eminent persons as
Honorary Member, provided that the persons so admitted shall not exceed three Honorary Fellows at
any one time.
(2) No person shall have the right to apply for admission to the grade of Honorary member.
The Council shall consider only nominations made for the grade of Honorary member by corporate
members of the Institute. The Council shall by a vote of at least two thirds of the full membership of
the Council, elect persons to the grade of Honorary member.
9. Every person seeking admission to the grade of Associate Member shall :-
(i) have three (3) years after B.Sc. Special Degree in Geology accredited by Levels
3, 4, 5 and 6 of Sri Lanka Qualification Framework (SLQF) or five (5) years after
B.Sc. General Degree in geosciences accredited by Levels 3, 4 and 5 of Sri Lanka
Qualification Framework (SLQF) in which one third (33%) of level 3 and 4 and
50% of level 5 of the course content is made up of geoscience or a cognate subjects
and
(ii) have sufficient training in the field of geoscience. as is determined by the Council
from time to time.
10. Every person seeking admission to the grade of Licentiate Member shall-
(i) have a B.Sc. Special Degree in Geology accredited by Levels 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Sri
Lanka Qualification Framework (SLQF) or two (2) years after BSc. General Degree
in geosciences accredited by Levels 3, 4 and 5 of Sri Lanka Qualification
Framework (SLQF) in which one third (33%) of level 3 and 4 and 50% of level 5
of the course content is made up of geoscience subjects and
(ii) have passed such examinations of the Institute or such other examinations as may
be prescribed or approved by the Council for the purpose, on the recommendation
of the Educational Committee.
11.Every person seeking admission to the grade of Student Member should be following a
course of study in Geology or cognate subjects approved by the Council for the purpose, on the
recommendation of the Educational Committee.
12. (1) Foreign Ordinary Members shall be Foreign Members and the qualifications and
standards and competence of Foreign Members shall be as described in these Rules.
Non-Corporate
Members
Honorary members
Associate Members
Student Members
Foreign Members
Licentiate member

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
4A
(2) Foreign Institutional Members in terms of Section 13, shall be Foreign Members
13. (1 )The Council may, by resolution of the Council, admit any Firm, Company, Association,
Body or Institution endorsing the general objects of the Institute and supporting the work of the Institute,
as an Institutional Member of the Institute. They in turn shall be required to provide a Certificate of
Authorization (COA) pledging to carry out relevant geoscience duties to the general public.
(2) The Council has the right to revoke the COA if the respective, Firm, Company, Association,
Body or Institution, inadvertently, purposefully, or erroneously contribute to the profession of
geoscience.
(3) The Council may at any time, for cause shown, declare that any Firm, Company,
Association, Body or Institution admitted as an Institutional Member under the preceding paragraph,
shall no longer be an Institutional Member and there upon such Firm, Company, Association, Body or
Institution shall forthwith cease to be an Institutional Member.
14.(1) Members who are in the grades of Corporate Member (Member and Fellow) can apply
for the status of Chartered Geologist and the procedure and the requirement as prescribed in the Schedule
B of the application procedure. Chartered Geologist shall be entitled to take and use the style after their
names, as CGeol. The Member has to submit a Professional Review Report along with the application at
the time of application (Schedule C).
(2) To become eligible to apply as Chartered Geologist, the applicant should have completed
at least 3 years membership as a Corporate Member.
(3) The evaluation for a Chartered Geologist is done as provided in Schedule B.
(4) Chartered Geologists will be provided with a professional seal of the Institute which he/
she shall use to endorse documents, reports, statements and any other written communications. The
member should place his original signature within the stamp of the seal indicating his knowledge on the
documents, reports, statements and any other  communication. The member is authorized to sign only
such items which has been his own or thoroughly reviewed by or directly supervised by the member.
(5) A Chartered Geologist violating the sections above is deemed to go through the Admission
and Ethical Practices Committee and if found guilty will face either to pay a fine or revoke the membership
and the seal for a period decided by the Committee for a maximum of two years. See Schedule D of
Code of ethics of the Institute.
15. (1) Members of the Institute in the following grades shall be entitled to take and use the
style after their names, as mentioned below:
Chartered Geologist - CGeol.
Honorary Fellows - FIGSL (Hony.)
Fellows - FIGSL
Members - MIGSL
Associate Member - AMIGSL
Licentiate Member -  LIGSL
Student member - no style
(2) No person or body of persons shall take or use the initials or styles “CGeol.”, “FIGSL”,
“FIGSL (Hony)”, “MIGSL”, “AMIGSL” or “LIGSL”, or use the same as the name or part of the name in
any personal communication, book, journal or other publication. Every Corporate Member whose name
appears on the Register of Chartered Geologist is entitled to describe himself as a Chartered Geologist
Institutional
Members
Chartered
Geologist
Use of letters to
denote grades

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
5A
and in using that description after his name shall place it before the designation of the class to which
he belongs stated in accordance with the following abbreviated forms, namely CGeol., FIGSL (Sri
Lanka), or CGeol., MIGSL(Sri Lanka).
16. (1) No public statements or any other sensitive statements related to geoscience shall
be disclosed unless with endorsement of the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee. Thereafter,
the statements could be rated either as preliminary, semi detailed and detailed assessment or confirmed
results before disclosing it to the general public.
(2) Any member who is in arrears of membership fees for a period of three years from
the date on which such payment was due, shall ipso facto cease to be a Member of the Institute but
such member shall be entitled to be re admitted to the same grade of his membership upon payment
of the current years membership together with all arrears.
 (3) Every admission or transfer to the Class of Member shall be in a form as the Council
may prescribe. This proposal shall be supported by at least 2 Corporate Members, certifying that
they recommend the admission of the candidate from personal knowledge of him and that his
application is worthy of consideration. Such proposal shall be delivered to the Secretary who shall
submit it to the Council for determination whether the candidate is suitable for admission to the
Professional Review Examination in accordance with the Rules and Regulations in force.
17. (1) The Council shall have the power to expel from Membership,  suspend Membership
for a period, reprimand or admonish a Member who has been found guilty of misconduct or of unethical
practice after due inquiry conducted by the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee and provided
that at least two third of the full Membership of the Council has voted in favour of such disciplinary
action( Schedule D).
(2) A Member or a Corporate Member under a legal liability may practice his profession
with the consent of the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee. If the Member receives a prison
sentence from any court of law, membership will be automatically revoked. However, it may be
reinstated after a period of two years from the completion of his sentence. Any member whose
membership is terminated or suspended or who has been expelled from membership shall return
forthwith to the Council any certificate of membership issued to him and shall further not be entitled
to use any qualifications or any styles of the Institute, unless the Council otherwise decides.
18.Every Corporate Member, every Associate Member and every Licentiate Member who
has been admitted to respective membership shall receive an appropriate certificate in English, or if
otherwise preferred, in Tamil or Sinhala. This certificate will remain the property of the Institute and
in the event of the holder ceasing to be a Member, shall on request be returned to the Institute.
19. (1) Membership fees shall be as follows :-
(i) Members in the grade of Chartered Geologists shall pay a sum of SLR.I0,000.00
as their annual subscription.
(ii) Members in the grade of Fellow shall pay a sum of SLR.7,500.00 as their annual
subscription.
(iii) Members in the grade of Member shall pay a sum of SLR.7,500.00 as their annual
subscription.
(iv) Members in the grade of Associate Member shall pay a sum of SLR.3,000.00 as
their annual subscription.
Rules governing the
grades
Expulsion and
suspension, from
membership
Certificates
Membership Fees

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
6A
(v) Members in the grade of Licentiates/student member shall pay a sum of
SLR.2,OOO.00 as their annual subscription.
(vi) Honorary F ellows are not obliged to pay any subscription fee.
(vii) Foreign Ordinary Members and Foreign Industrial Members shall pay US$ 100.00
and US$ 2,000.00 respectively as their annual subscription.
(viii) Institutional Members shall pay a sum of SLR 20,000.00 as their annual subscription.
(2) In addition to the membership fee prescribed in sub paragraph (1) of this rule, new
applicants for admission to the Institute shall pay the following Processing Fees:
Fellow - SLR 2,000.00
Member - SLR 2,000.00
Associate Member - SLR 1,000.00
Licentiate Member - SLR 1,000.00
Student Member - SLR 500.00
(3) Annual subscription fees for Corporate and Non-corporate Members of the Institute
shall be paid on or before 30th April of preceding year.
(4) The above rates do not include any taxes or rates imposed by the Government.
(5) In the event an application for admission is not accepted for processing by the Council,
the processing fee attached to the application shall be refunded to the applicant.
(6) No processing fee shall be payable by any member, other than a student member.
(7) Members, who are obliged to pay subscription fees under these rules, shall have to
renew their membership for each new calendar year by  paying the subscription fee before the 30th day
of April of each such calendar year.
(8) Members of the Institute who forfeit their membership by; a decision of the Council,
resignation or for any other reason shall not be entitled to claim a refund of any subscription, application,
or transfer fee they have paid to the Institute, during their period of membership.
20.The General Secretary of the Institute shall maintain a register of members giving their
names, grade of membership, permanent addresses, date on which membership was granted, date on
which a person ceased to be a member and any other relevant information as the General Secretary may
consider necessary.
21. (l)The Institute shall have a Council consisting of:
(i) the President (I), the Vice President (I), the General Secretary  (1) the treasurer (1),
the Editor (1), the Chairman of the Adrnission and Ethical Practices· Committee (1)
and the Chairman of the Educational Committee (I), all of whom shall be elected at
the Annual General Meeting;
(ii) three (3) additional members all of whom shall also be elected at the Annual General
Meeting; and
(iii) Past President (1) of the previous Council shall serve as Council member
Membership
Register
Composition of
the Council

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
7A
(2) The President, the Vice President the General Secretary, the Treasurer, the Editor, the
Chairman of the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee and the Chairman of the Educational
Committee, all of whom shall have 3 years of experience in serving Councilor any National body/
Society recognized by IGSL to be elected to the Council.
(3) The Council of the Institute holding office for the time being shall continue to function
as the Council of the Institute until a new Council is constituted in accordance with these rules.
(4) All members of the Council shall serve in an honorary capacity.
(5) Council shall meet at least once in every two months and the quorum for any such
meet shall be five (5) members. Notice of such  Council meeting indicating the Agenda shall be
provided by the Secretary in writing to every Council member at least 14 days before the date of the
meeting.
(6) Council Meetings shall be convened by the General Secretary.
(7) Where any member of the Council does not attend three consecutive meetings of the
Council without informing in writing the reason for such absence and such member does not attend
the next meeting of the Council, even after the General Secretary has specially written to such member
requesting him to attend such meeting, he shall be deemed to have vacated his membership in the
Council.
(8) Any person who the President considers should serve the Council in an ad hoc manner
in view of his eminence in the geosciences and related fields,  may be invited by the President to
participate in meetings of the Council. Such person shall have the restricted rights to participate in
the activities of the Council and shall not have the right to vote.
(9) With the consent of the President such ad hoc member could participate in meetings
through the electronic media from any part of the world as and when the necessity arises.
(10) All members except President and Secretary of the Council shall serve for one year
in the first instance. As decided by the majority of the general body, others may be eligible for re-
election for the same position for a further period of two years only. The President shall not be
eligible for re-election after serving for three years.
(11) Candidates for election to the council must be proposed and seconded by voting
members at the Annual General Meeting.
(12) Any Member may tender his/her resignation from the Council by writing to the
President, and such resignation shall not be operative until it is accepted by the Council at one of its
meeting. The President may tender his resignation to the Secretary. (Vice President of the Council
shall be responsible for continuation in the following year of work initiated for the  current year
(13) The Council shall be empowered to co-opt members to fill vacancies in the Committee
or to act for elected officials who are temporarily not available.
(14) The Council shall submit an Annual Report of the Institute and a duly audited financial
statement to the Annual General Meeting
22. (1) The administration and management of the affairs of the Institute shall be vested in
the Council.
Powers of the Council

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
8A
(2) The Council shall have the authority to exercise all its powers to carry out the
following duties and responsibilities-
(i) the appointment, allocation of duties, suspension and dismissal of employees of the
Institute;
(ii) specify such duties of various Committees of the Institute as are mentioned in these
rules, delegation of powers to such Committees as are necessary and the withdrawal
of such powers;
(iii) decide on the recommendations made to the Council by such Committees, in the
exercise of the powers delegated to such Committees by the Council;
(iv) invite persons not being members of the Council to serve in such Committees;
(v) the filling of vacancies that may arise in the Council or in any Committee appointed
under these rules;
(vi) appointment of qualified auditors to examine accounts of the Institute and present
their duly audited and certified Annual Statement of Accounts at the Annual General
Meeting and to other Government Institutions;
(vii) organizing and giving of instructions to office-bearers in regard to implementation
of programs, in accordance with the objects of the Institute;
(viii) interpretation and clarification of the Institute’s rules and regulations and deciding
on matters provided for in the rules and regulations;
(ix) when amendments, revisions or deletions of the rules and regulations are necessary,
the determination on such matters  and presenting them for approval at a General
Meeting.
(x) decide on the dates, times and venues for the holding of Annual General Meetings,
special General Meetings and General Meetings;
(xi) establishment, control and maintenance of the registered office of the Institute;
(xii) organization of lectures, talks, seminars and conferences both at international and
national level;
(xiii) printing and publishing of books, magazines and other literature on geology and
allied subjects; and
(xiv) generally do all other things which in the opinion of the Council are necessary or
conducive or incidental to, the attainment of the objects of the Institute;
23.(1) The President shall:
(i) preside at all meetings of the Council, the Annual General Meeting and Special
General Meetings of the Institute;
(ii) place before the General Meetings the decisions of the Council;
(iii) supervise and direct the office-bearers in the proper functioning of the Institute;
and
The President

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
9A
(iv) act on behalf of the Council in matters of urgency and communicate the actions
taken to the Council at its next meeting;
(2) In the absence of the President, the Vice President and in the absence of both the
President and the Vice President, a member elected from the Council, shall preside and conduct the
meetings of the Council and of the General body.
24. (1)The General Secretary shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Institute and shall
have powers, responsibilities and duties conferred on, or assigned to him, by the Council.
(2) His special duties and responsibilities shall be:-
(i) to summon meetings of the Council and the Annual General Meeting of the
Institute;
(ii) to summon meetings of various Committees of the Institute, at the direction of
the President;
(iii) to summon Special General Meetings of the Institute on the direction of the
President or at the written request of not less than six (6) members of the Council
; and
(iv) to sign documents on behalf of the Council.
(3) In the absence of the General Secretary, the Council member appointed by the majority
vote shall perform and discharge the responsibilities and duties vested in the General Secretary.
25. (l)The Treasurer shall, subject to the direction of the Council, be responsible for the
collection, the safe custody and disbursement of all monies of the Institute.
(2) Shall maintain proper accounts of all monies received and spent,  keep inventeries
and documents of all equpiment received and disposed and shall make available to the Council such
account books; receipts and documents, when called for.
(3) Shall invest the monies of the Institute as directed by the Council.
(4) Shall ensure that the annual accounts of the Institute are duly audited and certified by
the auditors and submit such accounts at the Annual General Meeting for adoption. Such accounts
shall also be made available for inspection to the membership at least one week before the date of the
Annual General Meeting.
26. The Editor shall:-
(a) be responsible for the publication of the official Journal of the Institute and such
other publications as may be decided by the Council;
(b) compile Newsletters and other publications at such intervals of time as may be
decided by the Council.
27. (1) There shall be Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee and  an Educational
Committee and such other Committees as may be deemed necessary by the Council.
(2) The Council shall at its first meeting after election, appoint an Admission and Ethical
Practices Committee and an Educational Committee.
The General
Secretary
The Treasurer
The Editor
The Admissions and
Ethical Practices
Committee

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
10A
(3) The Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee shall consist of seven (07) Corporate
Members of whom two members shall be members of the outgoing Committee, appointed at its first
meeting after election.
(4) The Admission and Ethical Practices Committee appointed by the Council at its first meeting
after electoin shall comprise of : -
(i) the Chairman elected at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with rule 6(i)
(ii) Secretary of the Institute who shall function as an ex-officio member;
(iii) The Chairman of the Educational Committee, who shall also function as an ex-
officio member; and
(iv) Four (4) other corporate members of whom at least two (2) members shall be
members of the outgoing committee.
(5) The Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee shall exercise and discharge the
following powers and functions:-
(i) consider all applications for membership of the Institute, other than for Institutional
Membership, interview such applicants and make recommendations in writing to the
Council on such application.
(ii) make recommendations from time to time to the Council on the substance or form
of ethical practices which are deemed to be right and proper for the members of the
Institute for the due practice of the profession of geology.
(iii) Inquire into and make recommendations to the Council on all matters unethical and/
or disciplinary in nature, referred to it by the Council.
(6) The Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee shall meet within . one month of its
appointment and thereafter once in every three (3) months.  The quorum for any such meeting shall be
four (4).
(7) Any member of the Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee, not being an ex-officio
member absenting himself from three consecutive meeting of the committee without informing in
writing his inability to attend such meetings, shall be deemed to have vacated his membership in the
Committee.
28. (1) The Educational and Professional Committee shall consist of seven (07) Corporate
Members, appointed at its first meeting after election.
(2) The Educational Committee appointed by the Council at its first meeting after election
shall comprise
(i) the Chairman elected at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with rule 6
(ii) General Secretary of the Institute who shall function as an ex-officio member;
(iii) The Chairman of the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee, who shall also
function as an ex-officio member; and
Educational
Committee

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
11A
(iv) Four (4) other corporate members of whom at least two (2) members shall be
members of the outgoing committee.
(3) The Educational Committee shall exercise and discharge, the following powers and
functions-
(i) promote the education of geology at all levels;
(ii) conduct or provide for the conduct of examinations for the award of diplomas,
certificates and other distinctions in such branches of geology as the Institute
may from time to time deem necessary and prescribe, approve or provide for
courses of study in respect of such examinations;
(iii) recommend names to the Council to fill any vacancies that may arise from time to
time, in the Educational Committee, having regard to the provisions of sub
paragraph (i) of this rule.
(iv) co-opt with the approval of the Council additional members (corporate or non-
corporate) for the purpose of effectively carrying out its powers and functions:
provided that such co-opted members shall not have the right to vote at meetings
of the Committee and they may also be excluded from the deliberations or part of
the deliberations of a meeting if such exclusion is deemed fit in the opinion of the
Committee.
(v) Recommend to the Council on-all matters concerning the courses of study and
examinations conducted, sponsored or approved by the Institute, including the
appointment, suspension, dismissal of lecturers, examiners, students, reprimanding
candidates and other personnel associated with such courses of study and
examinations.
(vi) recommend to the Council students eligible for the award of educational
qualifications, academic distinctions and other  awards;
(vii) submit an annual report to the Council of its activities during the preceding year
by such date as may be determined by the Council;
(viii) frame and revise when necessary, regulations governing the courses of study and
the examinations of the Institute; and
(ix) subject to the approval of the Council decide on the utilization of the funds of the
Institute for the purposes of the Educational Committee.
(4) The Educational Committee shall meet within one month of its appointment and
thereafter once in every three months. The quorum for any such meeting shall be four (4)
(5) Any member of the Educational Committee, not being an ex-officio member absenting
himself from three consecutive meeting of the committee without informing in writing his inability
to attend such meetings, shall be deemed to have vacated his membership in the Committee.
29. (1) All General Meetings shall only be open to corporate members and the quorum for
any such meeting shall be one third plus one (1) of members.
(2) The Annual General Meeting shall be held before the 30
th day of April each year, on a
date to be determined by the Council.
General Meetings

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
12A
(3) At least fourteen (14) days’ notice shall be given to the members for the Annual General
Meeting.
(4) Where due to unavoidable circumstances the Annual General Meeting could not be held
on the day fixed thereof, the Council shall have the power to postpone such meeting to a date not later
than one month from the date for which such meeting was fixed.
(5) The office-bearers of the Council, the members of the Council and the auditor shall be
elected at the Annual General Meeting.
(6) At the Annual General Meeting the General Secretary shall present the Annual Report
and the Minutes of the Annual General Meeting of the preceding year and the Treasurer shall present the
statement of accounts of the preceding year duly audited by the auditors.
 30. A Special General Meeting may be summoned by the General  Secretary on the direction
of the President or at the written request of a minimum of twenty five (25) Corporate Members stating
dearly the purpose for which the meeting is called for. No business other than that specified in the
notice summoning such meeting, shall be transacted at such meeting. Such notice shall be sent to every
Corporate Member giving at least seven (7) days’ notice thereof.
31.Any resolution that the members wish to present to a General Meeting shall be forwarded
to the Council through the General Secretary at least fourteen (14) days before such meeting and the
Council shall have the right to decide upon such resolutions that may be selected for presentation to the
General Meeting from amongst those that were forwarded to the Council.
32. (1) Moneys received by the Institute by way of subscription fees, donations from local
or foreign Institutions or persons, grants from the Government of Sri Lanka, loans obtained from any
source whether local or foreign for the purposes of the realization of the objects of the Institute and
income received from the movable and immovable properties of the Institute, shall be considered as the
funds of the Institute.
(2) The responsibility for receiving such moneys, their custody and disbursement shall vest
in the Treasurer, under the direction of the Council.
(3) All monies received by the Institute shall be deposited in any approved bank or banks or
in such savings accounts, fixed deposits, Insurance Company or other Financial Institution, as may be
approved by the Council, in favour of the “Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka” and cheques  or other
instrument for the withdrawal of such monies shall be signed by the Treasurer and either General Secretary
or President.
(4) The Institute may with the approval of the appropriate authority deposit any money
received in foreign currency, drafts, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer or otherwise in any Non-Resident
Foreign Currency Account or in any bank abroad. Provided that where the Treasurer reports of the
necessity to transfer any sums of money from any such Bank, Insurance Company, Finance Company or
other Financial Institution to any other branch of such Bank, Insurance Company, Finance Company or
other Financial Institution the council shall have the power to outhorize such transfer, to nominate
persons to sign cheques or other instuments and to issue orders relating to the deposits of such moneys.
(5) At the Annual General Meetings the Treasurer shall, with the approval of the Council
present the Annual Statement of Accounts duly audited and certified by the auditors and the Annual
General Meeting shall appoint a Committee comprising of three persons to analyze and study the
Auditor’s Report and the said Annual Statement of Accounts. The said Committee shall have the power
to obtain, through the Treasurer, all relevant information relating to the reports and the Annual Statement
Special General
Meetings
Resolutions
Control of Funds

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.03.2016
13A
of Accounts and shall submit its recommendation thereon to the Council for necessary action, within
one month from the date of the said Annual General Meeting.
33. (1) The accounts of the Institute shall be audited by Auditor general or a qualified auditor
appointed by Auditor General.
34.In the event of any action being filed in Court against the Institute, the President and the
General Secretary shall be entitled to exercise, perform and discharge all necessary powers, duties
and functions and to appear on behalf of the Institute, they shall have the power to delegate such
powers, with the connivance of the Council, to another member of the Council.
35. (1) The rules of the Institute shall not be revised, rescinded or amended except at General
Meeting convened for the purpose and on the vote of not less than two-third of the Corporate Members
present and voting.
(2) Written notice of the proposed revisions, amendments and deletions must be forwarded
no later than two weeks prior to such General  Meeting, to the Council through the General Secretary.
(3) The amendments,revisions and deletions to these rulesas-approved by the Council,
shall be proposed at the Special General Meeting by the General Secretary or in his absence by the
person presiding at such meeting.
36. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these rules -
“ Institute” means the Institute of Geology called and known as the “Institute of
Geology, Sri Lanka”, and incorporated by the Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka,
(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2014;
“Council” means the Council of the Institute entrusted with the management and
administration of the affairs of the institute, by Subsection (1) of Section 5 ;
“Geologist” means an individual who is engaged in the practice of ‘Geoscience or
Cognitive subjects’;
“geoscience or a cognitive subject”means all subjects generally accepted as relating
to Geology such as Physical Geology, Crystallography, Mineralogy, Petrology,
Hydrogeology, Photogeology, Structural & Field Geology, Geophysics,
Geochemistry, Engineering Geology, Environmental Geology, Isotope Geology,
Petroleum Geology, Marine Geology, Gemmology, Economic Geology, Mineral
Exploration, Palaeontology and Geologic Hazards.
“General Meeting means either the Annual General meeting or Special General
meeting
04 - 422
Auditors
Procedure in the
event of the Council
being sued.
Amendment of Rules
Interpretation
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.