

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
501
501
wxl 1"699 - 2011 ud¾;= ui 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'03'25
No. 1,699 – FRIDAY , MARCH 25, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 367
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 223
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st April, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th March,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
502
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
503
SELECTION  OF  TEACHERS  TO  FOLLOW  THE
WEEKEND  TEACHER  EDUCATION  COURSES
CONDUCTED  BY  THE REGIONAL  CENTERS  OF  THE
NATIONAL  INSTITUTE  OF  EDUCATION  2011-2012
APPLICATIONS are invited from untrained, non-graduate Teachers
who posses the following qualifications to follow the weekend
Teacher Education Courses.
1.1. Untrained teachers and teaching assistants serving in
Government Schools who have obtained their formal
appointments signed by the Secretary of Education
Service Committee or by the Secretary of the Provincial
Public Service Commission.
1.2 Teachers with formal appointments from the Provincial
Director of Education and included in the list of names of
Private Schools certified by the Director of Private Schools
in the Ministry of Education.
1.3 Pirivena Teachers with formal appointments with the
approval of the Provincial Director of Education and
registered in the Pirivena Education Branch of the Ministry
of Education.
1.4 Government, Pirivena and Private Schools' teachers
applied according to 2009 Gazette notification for
Weekend Teacher Training and their Scheduled Programme
not commenced, also requested to re-apply in this
connection.
Note.– Teachers and Teacher Assistants completed the
first phase and appeared for the examination need not
to apply for this.
2. All untrained non-graduate teachers are strongly requested to
apply. The Ministry of Education expect to train all teachers before
the year 2012 and thereafter opportunities will not be provided to
be engaged in teaching in schools without having specific training.
Therefore, it is very important to use this opportunity and all the
untrained, non-graduate teachers and teacher assistants are requested
to apply.
3. Teachers who are presently undergoing any Teacher Training
Programme in Teachers' Colleges will not be admitted to the above
programme.
4. Applicants are permitted to apply for the course according to
the subject stated in the appointment letter. In case the appointment
is not for a particular subject, apply for the course related to the
main subject teaching at the school (Proofs needed to be submitted
during the interview).
5. Teacher Education Courses will be offered during the weekends
and school holidays through the regional centers established by the
National Institute of Education.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
6. Trained Teachers' Certificate will be awarded to those fulfill
the requirements of the assignments, projects, co-curricular activities
and examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
6.1 If any fault is detected regarding the recruitment
qualification, the certificate might not be considered for
permanency or promotional requirements.
7. The final decision will be made by the Secretary, Education
regarding intake and establishment of the regional centers.
8. Instructions for the Preparation of Application Form  :
8.1 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. Application
should be prepared in accordance with the specimen given
in this Gazette Notification.
(a) Application should be made in the medium in which
the candidate wishes to follow the course.
(b) Along with the application attach the certified copy
of your formal appointment letter.
(c) Application form should be prepared on a sheet of
paper of 8" x 12" (A4) size using both sides.
(d) Application should be forwarded under registered
cover to the address of Director, Teacher Education
Administration Branch, Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Battaramulla on or before 08.04.2011.
(e) Specimen of registered post envelope is given
below :–
Regd. Post
Application for the Weekend Teacher Education Course
Medium :....................
Course :....................
School Zone :......................
Director,
Teacher Education Administration Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
H. M. G
UNESEKARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
March, 2011.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
504
8.2 Apply for the course according to the subject stated in
your appointment letter :
Course No. Name of the Course
01 Sinhala
02 Tamil
03 Primary Education
04 Social Science
05 Science
06 Mathematics
07 Agriculture
08 Home Economics
09 English
10 Buddhism
11 Christianity/Roman Catholicism
12 Hinduism
13 Islam
14 Art
15 Music
16 Dancing
17 Arabic
18 Special Education
19 Handicraft and Technology
20 Commerce
21 Physical Education
22 Second Language (Sinhala/Tamil)
8.3 Use following signs to indicate the mediums :
S  – Sinhala T – Tamil E – English
Specimen Application
SELECTION OF TEACHERS TO FOLLOW THE
WEEK-END TEACHER EDUCATION
COURSES – 2011/2012
01. Please state your medium of Instruction, Course Number,
Course Applied in the table given below :
1.1 Encircle the respective number for Medium of Instruction
of selected course.
Medium Course Applied
S T E Course No. Name of the course (In Block Letters)
123
02. Name with initials (Write in capital letters. Write the name first
and indicate the initials after the name. Example : PERERA,
A.B.) :–––––––––––.
03. Names denoted by initials (In block letters) :–––––––––––.
04. Gender (Write the respective number in the cage) :
Male – 1 Female – 2
05. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
06. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.       Mobile No. :–––––––––––.
07. E-mail (if any) :–––––––––––.
08. Personal Address (In block letters) :–––––––––––.
09. Present serving station (in block letters) and Zone :––––––––.
10. Address of the present serving station (in block letters) :–––.
11. District attached to your serving station :–––––––––.
11.1 District attached to your residence :–––––––––––.
11.2 State your preference of District for the training centre
:–––––––––––.
12. Applicant's declaration :
(i) I declare that the above stated information is correct and
true. I know that, if the information given by me found
to be incorrect, my application will be subjected to
rejection and if any fault is revealed after the selection, I
will be dismissed from the course.
(ii) I am presently not undergoing any type of Institutional
Teacher Training Programes.
–––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
13. Attestation of Principal :
I certify that the above applicant is serving at my school from
............. and information given are true and correct.
–––––––––––,
Principal's Signature and Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
03–635
––––––––––––––
EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION OF OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  III  OF PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE INTO  CLASS  II  OF  THE  SERIVCE  – 2010
IT is hereby notified that a qualifying Examination for Promotion
of Officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service
into Class II of the Service will be held in all three languages i. e.
Sinhala, Tamil and English in the Month of July, 2011 by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations. The medium for application
will not be allowed to change.
2.0  This Examination for the Promotion of Officers in Class III
of the Public Management Assistants' Service into Class II of the
Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna,
Mannar, Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The list of
towns with their respective town numbers is given below.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
505
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
Any center without a sufficient number of candidates shall be
cancelled and the remaining candidates will be assigned to the next
nearest center. It will not be allowed to change the town applied for
subsequently.
3.0. (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound by
the rules and regulations stipulated by him in respect of
holding this examination. Issuance of an admission card
to a candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance
of his/her eligibility to sit the examination.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishement
imposed by the Commissioner-General of Examinations
for violation of these rules and regulations.
4.0. Eligibility.- Officers in Class III of the service, who have
been confirmed in their posts before 25th April, 2011 and who have
completed an active service period of 04 years within which a
period of satisfactory service has been completed, are eligible to
appear for this examination.
Note.– The date of qualifying for promotion to Class II of
the service of an officer will be the date the officer passed
the examination or the date in which he/she complete 05
years of active and satisfactory service, whichever occurs
later.
5.0 Scheme of Examination. – The subjects of the examination
and the marks assigned to each subject are given below. Marks will
be deducted for bad handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates
whose handwriting is illegible are liable to be disqualified.
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishment Procedure 100 02 Hours
(ii) F inancial Systems 100 02 Hours
(iii) General Paper 100 01 Hour
Establishments Procedure.– The objective of this question paper
is to test the proficiency of experience obtained in office activities
and to test the knowledge on office systems adopted in government
offices to cover subject fields such as principles of office procedures,
importance of office procedures, written communication, filing
methods and preparation of forms etc. This paper will consist of a
section to test the knowledge of candidate on matters indicated in
V olume 01 of the Establishments Code. The paper will consist of
two parts.
Part I - 25 Questions of multiple choice type – 30 minutes
(25 marks)
Part II - Candidates are required to answer 03 out of 04
semi-structured type questions – 1 1/2 Hours (75
marks)
Financial Systems. – The question paper will be as follows :
(a) Part I - Exercises on adding and subtraction – 15
minutes (25 marks)
(b) Part II - 05 semi-structured questions to test the
candidates' knowledge and understanding of subjects
such as Financial Control exercised in government
offices, departments and ministries, custody of
finance, receipts and payments, budgetary
estimations, supplies, work and service. (50 marks)
(c) Part III  - 03 structured questions to test the
knowledge of candidate on basics of inspection and
storing of goods. (25 marks)
Note.– Candidates will not be allowed to use
calculators for adding exercises.
General Paper.– This paper is designed to test the ability of the
candidate to read and understand a statement or minutes of
discussion and prepare a report and/or a letter and also to test the
ability of the candidate to understand and analyze the current social
affairs. This paper will consist of two parts.
Part I - Candidates are required to answer 02 questions
given from a paragraph or a certain problem (45
marks).
Part II - Three semi-structured type questions will be given
and candidates are required to answer 02 questions.
The question for which writing short notes is
compulsory.
Compulsory Question (short notes) - 30 marks
Other questions - 25 marks
Total - 55 marks
Note.–
(i) The candidates should answer these question
papers in the language medium in which they
sat the entry examination to the service or any
other official language.
(ii) To qualify in these subjects, candidates will be
required to obtain a minimum of 33 percent
(33%) of the marks in each of these papers and
an average of 40 percent (40%) of the marks in
all three papers in one sitting.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
506
6.0 Commissioner-General of Examinations will release the
results of this examination to the Director-General of Combined
Services and the names of the successful candidates will be
published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
7.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen.
Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post
through the respective Heads of Departments to reach the
Commissioner - General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 25th April, 2011. The
application form should accompany a certificate of satisfactory
service. Heads of Departments must ensure that each application is
completed in every respect and that they have signed the service
certificate appended to the application form. The name of the
examination should be indicated in the top-left hand corner of the
envelope. Applications received after the closing date will be
rejected.
8.0 Identity of the Candidates. – Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
9.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in papers of
“A4” size in such a manner that para Nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appear on the
first page and remaining numbers in other pages. The application
could be typewritten but should be filled in correctly and legibly
by candidate's own handwriting. It is compulsory to indicate the
title of the examination appearing the specimen in English language,
too, on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It is the
responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application
form perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen given in
the examination notice and further, it would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the completed application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However,the examination fee for
subsequent sittings is Rs. 400. The exam fees should be paid to any
District Secretariat to be credited to Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of examination and the receipt should be
affixed in the relevant place of the application. It would be useful to
keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. Under any
circumstances, this fee will not be refunded or transferred in respect
of any other examination.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies
of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Candidates should get their signature
on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission
cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification
will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations
as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations : i. e. receipt of registration and in case
of applicants outside Colombo, if relevant the receipt of paid
examination fees letter of request, furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
10.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
11.0 For the purpose of the Official Langauges Policy, all the
candidates should prepare and fill their applications in the official
language.
12.0 The decision of the Director-General of Combined Services
will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
10th March, 2010.
Specimen Application Form
(For Office use only)
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE
INTO CLASS II OF THE SERVICE – 2010
Language medium in which the candidate intends Town Town No.
to sit for the examination :
Sinhala 2 (Indicate relevant number in the cage. (Indicate the name of the town in which you wish to appear for the
Tamil 3 Candidates shall not be allowed to change examination as per para 2.0 of the gazette notification. Candidates
English 4 this subsequently) shall not be permitted to be change this subsequently)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
507
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) eg : SUNIL, A. B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Have you changed your name after entering the Public Service ? if so, indicate the previous name :–––––––––––.
2.0 Name and address of place of work :–––––––––––.
2.1 Name and the address of Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Name and the address of Office/Department/Institute :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(Admission cards will be sent to this address)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month :                 Date :
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 Present Post :
5.1 Post :–––––––––––.
5.2 Number and date of the Appointment Letter :–––––––––––.
5.3 Date of confirmation in the post as an officer in Class III of the service :–––––––––––.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––––––––––.
6.2 If not, Examination fee paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt of paid examination fee of
Rs. 400 for subsequent sittings.
7.0 Candidate's Statement :
I solemnly certify that,
(i) The statement made by me above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
(ii) I am an of ficer in Public Management Assistants' Service and my appointment has been confirmed on ................
(iii) I have earned all/all possible increments during the period of 4 years immediately preceding 25th April, 2011.
(iv) I have not suffered any punishment more severe than a fine or a reprimand since the date of last increment.
(v) I appear for this examination for the first time/the receipt of paid exam fee is affixed here.
I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false and incorrect, disciplinary actions would be taken
against me. I agree to abide by the regulations of this examination.
I hereby state that information furnished above are true and that I am eligible to appear for the exam in the language medium
mentioned above. I certify that, I appear for this examination for the first time/the receipt of the paid exam fees to the value of Rs. ...........
is affixed. I agree to abide by the rules stipulated for this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
(See the foot note)
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
508
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of his/her Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf
of the Head of Department.
ATTESTATION OF THE SIGNA TURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is an officer employed at my work place and who is known to me personally
placed his/her signature in my presence .................. 2011.
––––––––––––,
Signature and stamp of the person attesting.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) Mr./Mrs./Miss .................. is an officer in class III of the Public Management Assistants' Service and has completed 0 4
years of service as at 25th April, 2011 and is eligible to sit the examination in terms of the notification published in the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated ...............
(ii) The number of the appointment letter of class III of officer as per his/her personal file is ................
(Indicate the number of the appointment letter)
(iii) The particulars given in Para 1.0 to 7.0 have been verified and were found to be correct.
(iv) He/she is sitting the examination for the first time/receipt of the fees for the relevant examination has been affixed.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and official stamp.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
03–845
––––––––––––––––––
EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  OF  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  II  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE  TO  CLASS  I  – 2010
IT is hereby notified that the qualifying examination for promotion
of officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants' Service to
Class I will be held in the three languages i. e. Sinhala, Tamil and
English, by the Commissioner General of Examinations in July,
2011.
2.0  Examination for promotion of officers in Class II of the
Public Management Assistants' Service to Class I will be held at the
centers in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar,
Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura,
Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The towns and their numbers
are given below.
Town Town Nunber
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
509
Any center without a sufficient number of candidates will be
cancelled. It will not be allowed to change the "town" indicated in
the application for subsequently.
3.0. (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound by
the rules and regulations stipulated by him in respect of
holding this examination. Issuance of an admission card
to a candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance
of his/her eligibility to sit the examination.
(ii) A set of rules and regulations for the candidates is
published separately in the gazette notification. Any
candidate who violates these rules and regulations will
be liable to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
4.0. Candidates are required to satisfy following qualifications
to sit the examination :
(i) Should be an officer who has completed an active service
of ten years (10) in Class II of Public Management
Assistants' Service and a satisfactory service of five
(05) years as at the closing date of applications.
(ii) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination
held for officers in Class II of Public Management
Assistants' Service.
Note.– The date of examination will be reckoned as the date
on which the successful candidates qualify for promotion
to Class I of the service. However, any candidate who
passes the examination without possessing above
qualifications will be treated as ineligible for promotion
to Class I.
5.0 Scheme of Examination. – Candidates should sit a written
examination consisting of the following subjects :
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishment Procedure 100 1 1/2 Hours
(ii) Public Financial Management 100 1 1/2 Hours
(iii) Case Study 100 1 Hour
(iii) General Paper
100 1 Hour
Total 400
Establishments Procedure. – A practical konwledge on matters
contained in V olume I and II of the Establishments Code is expected
of the candidate. This paper consists of two parts.
Part I - 08 questions that require short answers  (25 marks)
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 out
of 04 semi-structured type questions  (75 marks)
Public Finance Management.– The objective of this paper is to
test the following, It consists of two parts.
(a) Practical knowledge on financial regulations,
(b) Basic knowledge on auditing,
(c) Basic bank practice,
(d) Basic knowledge on store keeping.
Part I - 08 questions that require short answers   (25 marks)
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 out
of 04 semi-structured type questions (75 marks)
Case Study.– Candidates are requried to answer a multiple choice,
short answers and semi-structured essay type paper designed to
analyze measures to be taken to a problem relating to office
administration. Cases for study will be provided and the questions
to be answered will be as follows :
Part I - 05 multiple choice type questions   (05 marks)
Part II - 05 questions that require short answers
(05 marks)
Part III -  05 semi-structured type questions (90 marks)
General Paper.– The objective of this paper is to test the General
knowledge of the candidates on current affairs, both local and
international. The paper consists of three parts.
Part I - 32 multiple choice type questions (16 marks)
Part II - Short notes should be provided under two topics
out of the four (04) given. (36 marks)
Part III- Answers should be provided for 02 essay type
questions out of the four (04) given (48 marks)
Note.–
(i) Candidates should answer these papers in the
language medium of entry to the service or any
other official language.
(ii) Candidate should score a minimum of 40
percent (40%) of marks in each subject and an
aggregate of 160 or more to pass the
examination.
6.0 Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue results of
the examination to the Director-General of Combined Services and
the names of the successful candidates will be published in the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
7.0 Application should be in the form of the specimen appended
to this notification and should be prepared by the candidate him/
herself. Application prepared thus by the candidate should be sent
through the respective Head of Department by registered post to
the Commissioner - General of Examinations, Organizations and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka Examinations Department,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla so as to reach him/her on or before 25th
April, 2011. A  certificate to prove the satisfactory service of the
officer should be sent along with the application. The respective
Head of Department should satisfy him/herself that the application
has been perfected accurately and the service certificate has been
duly signed by him/herself. The top-left corner of the envelope
containing the application should clearly bear the name of the
examination. Applications received after the closing date will be
rejected.
8.0 Identification of Candidates. – Candidates are required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they appear. For this purpose, any one
of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
510
Candidature of any candidate who fails to submit any one of the
above, can be cancelled by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, at his discretion.
9.0 Applications.– Application form should be prepared on a
paper of A4 size in such a way that headings number 1.1 to 1.9
appear on the first page. Application form may be typewritten but
should be filled clearly and legibly by the candidate himself in his
own handwriting. It is compulsory to indicate the title of the
examination appearing the specimen in English language, too, on
both Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that
have not been perfected properly will be rejected without notice. It
is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the
application form perfected by him/herself complies with the
specimen given in the examination notice and further it would be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
Candidates who are sitting this examination for the first time
need not to pay examination fees. However, at consequent sittings,
candidates are required to paste stamps to the value of Rs. 400 on
the application for each sitting and to cancel them duly by placing
signature and date. This should be paid at any District/Divisional
Secretariats in the island to be to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt shold be affixed
in the relevant cage. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of
the receipt. Under any circumstances, this fee will be refunded or
transferred in respect of an other examination.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies
of the time table and admission cards for the examination to all
candidates who have sent in duly completed applications before
the closing date of applications. Candidates should get their signature
on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission
cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification
will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations
as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations : i. e. photocopies of the application
receipt of the paid examination fees and the receipt of the registered
letter. receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request, furnishing a fax number to which the
admission card should be sent.
10.0 Heads of Departments should grant duty leave to candidates
to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations enabling them to present themselves at
the examination. Traveling expenses will not be paid in this respect.
11.0 For the purpose of the Official Langauges Policy, all the
candidates are required to prepare and own their perfect applications
in the official language.
12.0 The decision of the Director-General of Combined Services
will be final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
examination notice.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
11th March, 2011.
Specimen Application Form
(For Office use only)
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN CLASS II OF
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE TO CLASS I  – 2010
Language medium of examination : Town Town No.
Sinhala 2 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage. (Indicate the town and the corresponding No. in which you
Tamil 3 It will not be allowed to change this intend to sit the examination, as per para 2.0 of the gazette
English 4 subsequently) notification. )
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) eg : SUNIL, A. B.
1.2 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
511
1.4 Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.5 Have you changed your name after entering the Public Service ? if so, indicate the previous name :–––––––––––.
1.6 Place of work and address :
1.6.1 Name and the address of Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.6.2 Name and the address of Office/Department/Institute :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.7 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.8 Date of Birth :
Year : Month :                 Date :
1.9 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Present Post :
2.1 Post :–––––––––––.
2.2 Number and the date of the Appointment Letter :–––––––––––.
2.3 Date of entry to class II of above service :
Year : Month :  Date :
2.4 Have you earned all increments during the period of your service ? If not, give particulars :–––––––––––.
2.5 If you have suffered any punishment whatsoever state particulars in brief :–––––––––––.
2.6 If you have been released for service in a corporation or any Statutory Board, furnish such particulars :–––––––––––.
2.7 If you have availed yourself of no pay leave for employment abroad or any other purpose, furnish such particulars :––––.
3.0 3.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––––––––––.
3.2 If not, value of the stamps (affixed) :–––––––––––.
Stamp Cage :
If you are not sitting the examination for the first time, affix the cash receipt of
Rs. 400, paid as the examination fee.
4.0 Declaration of candidate
I do hereby declare that,
(i) The above particulars furnished by me are true and correct to my knowledge and faith and,
(ii) I am an of ficer in class II of Public Management Assistants' Service and I have been appointed to class II of Public
Management Assistants' Service on ................. and,
(iii) I have completed a 10 years active period of service as at 25th April, 2011 and 5 years satisfactory period of the service
on that date and,
(iv) I am sitting the examination for the first time/cash receipt has been affixed.
I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false and incorrect, I am liable to disciplinary action taken
against me. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting of this
examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
(See the footnote)
Date :–––––––––.
Note.– 1. Period of service in class II/II "A" of General Clerical Service or its parallel Services before absorption to the Public
Management Assistants' Service should be taken into account when computing the period of service in class II of
Public Management Assistants' Service.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.03.2011
512
2. The applicant shold place his/her signature in the presence of the relevant Head of Department or an officer
authorized to do so on behalf of him.
ATTESTATION OF THE SIGNA TURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who serves at my office is personally known to me and that he/sh e signed
in my presence on ...........................
––––––––––––,
Signature of the person attesting
and official frank.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) Mr./Mrs./Miss .................. has completed a 10 years period in class II of Public Management Assistants' Service as at
.................... 2011 and,
He/she is eligible to sit the examination as per the notification published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka dated ........................
(ii) Number of the appointment letter of class II is ...................... (Indicate number of the appointment letter) as per his/h er
personal file and,
(iii) The particulars furnished by him/her in chapters 1.0 to 4.0 above, have been checked and found to be correct and,
(iv) He/she is sitting the examination for the first time/cash receipt of the fees for the relevant examination has been affixed.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and official frank.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
03–844
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.