

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA LAKDARU DIRIYA
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Malith Jayathilake , M. P.
on 25th October, 2016
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
to incorporate the Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya Foundation
——————
——————
[Bill No. 145]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on October 10, 2016)

<!-- page 2 -->

1 Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya
Foundation (Incorporation)
2—PL 010235—  300 (10/2016)
Preamble.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA LAKDARU
DIRIYA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS An association called and known as “Maithripala
Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya Foundation” has heretofore been
formed in Polonnaruwa for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Maithripala Sirisena
Lakdaru Diriya Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of
2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya Foundation (hereinafter
referred to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya Foundation” and by
that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full power
and authority to have and use a common seal and alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote mutual understanding and goodwill
among all ethnic groups;
Incorporation
of the
Maithripala
Sirisena
Lakdaru
Diriya
Foundation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2  Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to provide pre school, primary, secondary and
tertiary school facilities to needy children who lack
educational facilities;
(c) to protect, appreciate, provide facilities, encourage
and promote wellbeing of the artistes in order to
protect traditional cultural arts;
(d) to provide vocational training to youth to make
maximum use of their talents by encouraging their
leadership and ability;
(e) to provide facilities to make efficient and fruitful
use of young labour and ability for the development
of the nation;
(f) to provide financial and technical assistance to
athletes from backward areas by identifying their
natural talents and abilities to bring them upto
national and international levels;
(g) to initiate environmental management systems with
the participation of the people;
(h) to introduce advance technology to improve
farming economy and to provide knowledge and
comprehension about the diversification and
economic management;
(i) to promote savings in order to minimize rural
indebtedness and to establish, improve and
encourage financial institutions for the public to
obtain loans without inconvenience which lead to
welfare of the people;
(j) to promote and encourage small and medium scale
industries (supported by large scale industries and
independent) and also to promote
entrepreneurships; and
(k) to introduce programmes led by women to
strengthen the economy of low income families;
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3 Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provision of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman, Deputy Chairman,
Exceutive Director, Secretary, Director (Finance) and eleven
other members elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Corporation, Hon. Minister
Maithripala Sirisena shall be the Chairman of the Board of
Director for life and his only son Dhaham Tharaka
Pallewaththa shall be the Deputy Chairman. Thereafter the
Deputy Chairman shall become the Chairman and the
descendant of the family shall be the Deputy Chairman of
the Board .
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman and Deputy Chairman shall unless he vacates his
office earlier by death or  resignation, hold office for a period
of four years.  Where due to death or resignation a vacancy
occurs in the Board of Directors new member shall be
appointed to fill such vacancy and such a new member shall
hold office until such time of cessation of the office of the
current Board of Directors.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other written
law, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform and
execute, all such acts, matters and things whatsoever, as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power to acquire and hold property movable or immovable,
to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
money with or without security, to receive or collect grants or
donations, to invest its  funds, to erect any building or structures
on any land held by the Corporation and engage, employ and
dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of Corporation.
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of
the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 5 -->

4  Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this  Act or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters :—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable ;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of the meetings of the Corporation and of
the Board of Directors, the quroum for such
meetings and the exercise and performance of their
powers and duties ;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors ; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation .
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Fund on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act.
Debts due by
and payable
to the centre.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5 Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property both movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose be liable  to make any contribution
exceeding the amounts of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6  Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya
Foundation (Incorporation)
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
5
10
15
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors  appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic,
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
20

<!-- page 8 -->

7 Maithripala Sirisena Lakdaru Diriya
Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .