

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
FINANCE ACT, No. 12 OF 2013
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 23rd April, 2013]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 10.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 26, 2013

<!-- page 2 -->

Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013 1
2—PL 007089—4,090 (03/2013)
[Certified on 23rd April, 2013]
L.D.—O.  5/ 2013.
A
N ACT TO AMEND THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 16 OF 1995,  THE FINANCE
ACT, NO. 25 OF 2003 AND THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 12 OF 2012;
TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF A CROP INSURANCE LEVY; AND
TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL
THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No.12 of
2013.
PART  I
AMENDMENT OF PART II OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 16 OF 1995
2.  The Finance Act, No. 16 of 1995 (hereinafter in this
Part referred to as the “ principal enactment”) is hereby
amended, in section 5 thereof by the insertion immediately
after subsection (1) thereof of the following subsection:-
“(1A) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions
of this section such semi- luxury dual purpose motor
vehicle levy shall not be charged, with effect from
January 1, 2013, in respect of a light truck registered
as a dual purpose vehicle under the Motor Traffic
Act (Chapter 203) .”.
3.  Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, as follows :–
(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression“diesel motor vehicle”  of the
following definition :-
“ “dual purpose vehicle” shall have the same
meaning assigned to it under the Motor
Traffic Act (Chapter 203);”;
Short title.
Amendment of
section 5 of Act,
No.16  of 1995.
Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013
(2) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression  “luxury motor vehicle”  of the
following definition :-
“ “ light truck” means a dual purpose vehicle with
a driver’s compartment having a single row
accommodation along the same transverse
axis for the driver and passenger, adapted or
constructed wholly or mainly for the purpose
of carriage of goods;”;
(3) by the repeal of the  definition of the expression
“semi- luxury dual purpose motor vehicle”
and substitution therefor of the following
definition:-
“ “semi- luxury dual purpose motor vehicle” means
a luxury motor    vehicle or semi- luxury motor
vehicle which is registered as a dual
purpose vehicle under the Motor Traffic Act
(Chapter 203); ”.
4. Any person or body of persons who charged or
collected the semi-luxury dual purpose motor vehicle levy,
in respect of a light truck, as provided for in the principal
enactment during the period commencing from January 1,
2013 and ending on the date on which the certificate of the
Speaker is endorsed in respect of this Act, shall be deemed
to have acted with due authority and such charge or
collection shall be deemed to have been validly made:
 Provided that the aforesaid provisions shall not affect
any decision or Order made by any court or any proceedings
pending in any court in respect of such levy charged or
collected during such period.
Validation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013 3
PART II
AMENDMENT OF PART II OF THE FINANCE
ACT, NO. 25 OF 2003
5. Part II  (Tourism Development Levy) of the Finance
Act, No. 25 of 2003  is hereby amended in section 11, by the
substitution for the words “Sales Agents licensed under
Tourism Development Act,  No. 14 of 1968.”  of the following
words:-
“Sales Agents licensed under Tourism Development
Act, No. 14 of 1968:
Provided further , such  levy shall not be charged
on   any institution having an annual turnover not
exceeding rupees twelve million or a  quarterly
turnover  not exceeding rupees three million.”.
PART III
A
MENDMENT OF PART IV OF THE FINANCE
ACT, NO. 12 OF 2012
6. The heading of Part IV of the Finance Act, No. 12 of
2012 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the “principal
enactment”)  is hereby repealed and the following heading
substituted therefor:-
“EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN ENTERPRISES  FROM THE
APPLICATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF CERTAIN
ACTS”.
7.   Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2), by the repeal of paragraph ( a)
thereof, and the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-
“(a) shall carry out such activities either in a Free Port
or a Bonded Area declared by regulations under
this Act ;” .
Amendment of
section11 of
Part  II of Act,
No. 25 of 2003.
Amendment of
the Heading of
Part IV of Act
No.12 of 2012.
Amendment of
section 16 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013
 8.  Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2), by the repeal of paragraph ( a)
thereof, and the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-
“(a) shall carry out such activities either in a Free
Port or a Bonded Area declared by regulations
under this Act ;” .
9.   Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2), by the repeal of paragraph ( a)
thereof, and the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-
“(a) shall carry out such activities either in a Free
Port or a Bonded Area declared by regulations
under this Act ;” .
10. The following sections are  hereby inserted
immediately after section 18 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 18
A, 18B  and 18C thereof:-
18A. (1) Subject to the provisions of
subsections (2) and (3), there shall be exempted,
from the application of the provisions of the
Acts referred to in the Schedule  hereto,  any
enterprise engaged in any one or more of the
following businesses, within the meaning of
an agreement entered into with the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka, under the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978-
(a) entrepot  trade involving import, minor
processing and re- export;
(b) off-shore business where goods can be
procured from one country or
manufactured in one country and
shipped to another country without
bringing the same into  Sri Lanka;
(c) providing front end services to clients
abroad;
Insertion of
sections 18 A, 18 B
and 18 C  in the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 18 of the
principal
enactment.
“Granting
exemption to
certain
enterprises
from the
application
of the
provisions of
certain Acts.
Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013 5
(d) headquarters operations of leading
buyers for management of finance
supply chain and billing operations;
(e) logistic services such as bonded
warehouse or multi- country
consolidation in Sri Lanka.
(2) Any enterprise referred to in subsection
(1) which is engaged in the physical
importation of goods, wares or merchandise
for re- export shall,
(a) carry out such activities either in a Free
Port  or a Bonded Area declared by
regulations under this Act ;
(b) notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (1), be subject to  the
provisions of the Customs Ordinance,
in any movement of goods to and from
such Free Port or the Bonded Area , to
and from the Sri Lankan territory as if
such goods had been imported into Sri
Lanka or exported from Sri Lanka, as
the case may be .
(3) Any enterprise referred to in subsection
(1), which is not engaged in physical movement
of goods, wares or merchandise, may carry out
such operations outside a Free Port or a Bonded
Area as referred to above.
18
B. (1) Any new enterprise established on
or after the date of the coming into operation
of this Act,  which  is engaged in any one or
more of the following businesses, within the
meaning of an agreement entered into with the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, under the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of
1978, shall be eligible, subject to the provisions
of subsections (2) and (3),
 for the exemptions
Extending
the
application of
the
provisions of
the Inland
Revenue Act,
No. 10 of
2006 to
certain
enterprises.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013
granted under the relevant  sections of the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, if such
enterprise satisfies the requirements specified
in the relevant section by which the exemption
applicable is granted–
(a) entrepot  trade involving import, minor
processing and re- export;
(b) off-shore business where goods can be
procured from one country or
manufactured in one country and
shipped to another country without
bringing the same into  Sri Lanka;
(c) providing front end services to clients
abroad;
(d) headquarters  operations of leading
buyers for management of finance
supply chain and billing operations;
(e) logistic services such as bonded
warehouse or  multi- country
consolidation in Sri Lanka.
(2) Any new  enterprise
 referred to in
subsection (1) which is engaged in the physical
importation of goods, wares or merchandise
for re- export shall, –
(a) carry out such activities either in a Free
Port or a Bonded Area declared by
regulations under this Act;
(b) notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (1), be subject to  the
provisions of the Customs Ordinance,
in any movement of goods to and from
such Free Port or the Bonded Area , to

<!-- page 8 -->

Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013 7
and from the Sri Lankan territory as
if such goods had been imported into
Sri Lanka or exported from Sri Lanka,
as the case may be.
(3) Any new enterprise  referred to in
subsection (1), which is not engaged in physical
movement of goods, wares or merchandise, may
carry out such operations outside a Free Port or
a Bonded Area as referred to above.
18
C. (1) Any new enterprise  established on
or after the date of coming into operation of
this Act,  and identified as a Strategic
Development Project in terms of the provisions
of section 3 of  the  Strategic Development
Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, which  is  engaged
in any one or more of the following businesses,
within the meaning of an agreement entered
into with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka,
under the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
Law, No. 4 of 1978, shall be eligible, subject
to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),  for
the exemptions granted under  the Strategic
Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 
–
(a) entrepot  trade involving import, minor
processing and re- export;
(b) off-shore business where goods can be
procured from one country or
manufactured in one country and
shipped to another country without
bringing the same into  Sri Lanka;
(c) providing front end services to clients
abroad;
Extending
the
application
of provisions
of the
Strategic
Development
Projects Act,
No. 14 of
2008 to
certain
enterprises.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013
(d) headquarters operations of leading
buyers for management of finance
supply chain and billing operations;
(e) logistic services such as bonded
warehouse or  multi - country
consolidation in Sri Lanka.
(2) Any new  enterprise referred to in
subsection (1), which is engaged in the physical
importation of goods, wares or merchandise
for re- export shall–
(a) carry out such activities either in a Free
Port or a Bonded Area declared by
regulations  under this Act;
(b) notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (1), be subject to  the
provisions of the Customs Ordinance,
in  any movement of goods to and from
such Free Port or the Bonded Area, to
and from the Sri Lankan territory, as if
such goods had been imported into Sri
Lanka or exported from Sri Lanka, as
the case may be.
(3) Any new enterprise  referred to in
subsection (1) which is not engaged in physical
movement of goods, wares or merchandise, may
carry out such operations outside a Free Port or
a Bonded Area as referred to above.”.
 11. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the  substitution for the  words and figures
“sections 16, 17 and 18” of the words and figures “ sections
16, 17, 18, 18
A, 18B and 18C”.
Amendment of
section 19 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 10 -->

Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013 9
 12. The following sections are  hereby inserted
immediately after section 19 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 19
A and 19B thereof:-
19A. (1) The Minister may make regulations
in respect of all matters which are required to
be prescribed or for which regulations are
authorized to be made under this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1), the  Minister may, by
regulations –
(a) declare Free Ports and Bonded Areas
for the purposes of this Part of this
Act;
(b) specify the  investment limits and
other criteria required    for the
enterprises referred to under this Part
of this Act;
(c) specify the conditions and
exemptions in relation to local sales;
(d) specify the procedure to be followed
in granting  exemptions under this
Part of this Act; and
(e) specify monitoring authority and the
mechanism for monitoring.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister
under subsection (1) shall be published in the
Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date
as may be specified therein.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister
shall as soon as convenient after its publication
in the Gazette be brought before  Parliament
for approval.  Every regulation which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from
the date of disapproval but without prejudice
to anything previously done thereunder.
Insertion of
sections  19 A and
19B in the
principal
enactment.“Regulations.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013
(5)  Notification of the date on which any
regulation is deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.
19
B. In this Part of this Act, unless the
context otherwise requires-
“Board of Investment of Sri Lanka” means the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
established under the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978;
“Bonded Area” means an area supervised by
the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka or
the Director-General of Customs or any
other Authority and declared by
regulations under this Act;
“Controller of Exchange” means the Head of
the Department of Exchange Control
established under the Exchange Control
Act (Chapter 423) ;
“Controller of Imports and Exports” means
the Controller of Imports and Exports
appointed under section 2 of the
Imports and Exports (Control) Act
(Chapter 236) ;
“Customs Ordinance” means the Customs
Ordinance (Chapter 235) ;
“Director-General of Customs” means the
Director-General of Customs appointed
under section 2 of the Customs
Ordinance;
“entrepot trade” includes any manufacturing
activity approved under this Part and
carried out by a new enterprise for re-
export with a domestic value addition
at a  minimum rate of  ten per centum,
within   a Free Port declared by
regulations under this Part of this Act;
Interpretation.

<!-- page 12 -->

Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013 11
“Free Port” means an area within a sea port or
an inland dry port operated under the
supervision of the Sri Lanka Ports
Authority and declared by regulations
under this Act;
“logistic service” includes inter alia-
(i) transshipment activities;
(ii) warehousing for temporary
storage of input or finish goods
for local exporters; and
(iii) freight forwarding for clients
abroad;
“ Sri Lanka Ports Authority” means the
Sri Lanka Ports Authority established
under the Sri Lanka Ports Authority
Act, No. 51 of 1979;
“ Sri Lankan territory” means the territory of
the Republic of Sri Lanka and does not
include any Free Port or a Bonded Area
declared under this Part of this Act.”.
13. The following Schedule is hereby added
immediately after section 20 of the principal enactment:-
  “Schedule (section 18A)
1. Value Added Tax Act, No.  14 of 2002;
2. Nation Building Tax Act, No.  9  of  2009 ;
3. Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No.  40 of 1979 ;
4. Special Commodity Levy Act, No. 48 of 2007;
5. Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No.18 of
2011;
6. Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13  of 1989.”.
Addition  of a
Schedule in the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013
PART IV
IMPOSTION OF CROP INSURANCE LEVY
14. (1) With a  view of covering the damages  suffered
by the farmers of Sri Lanka   due to natural disasters , there
shall be charged and levied from every institution coming
under the purview of  the Acts specified in the  Schedule
hereto, a levy of one per centum to be called the Crop
Insurance Levy (hereinafter in this Part referred to as “ the
levy” ) on the after tax profits of such institutions.
 (2) The levy imposed under this Part shall be remitted to
a separate account maintained and administered by the
National Insurance Trust Fund Board established by the
National Insurance Trust Fund Act, No. 28 of 2006 .
(3) The provisions which may be necessary in the
implementation of the provisions of this Part  shall be
prescribed by regulations under this Act.
15. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required to be prescribed or for which
regulations are authorized to be made under this Act.
 (2) Every regulation made by the Minister under
subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation on the date of such publication or on
such later date as may be specified therein.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before  Parliament for approval. Every regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the
date of disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
Imposition of
Crop Insurance
Levy.
Regulations.

<!-- page 14 -->

Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013 13
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala Text Shall
prevail.
Schedule (section 14)
1. Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;
2. Finance Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988;
3. Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of
2000.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .