

<!-- page 1 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s œfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1645$31 – 2010 ud¾;= 18 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2010’03’18
No. 1645/31 – THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
My No.: CI/400.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
The Collective Agreement entered into between the De La Rue Lanka Currency and Security Print (Pvt) Limited, Export Processing Zone,
Biyagama, Malwana of the one part and Inter Company Employees Union, No. 158/18, E. D. Dabare Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other
part on 16th December 2009 regarding the Clerical, Allied Grades and Support Staff is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the
Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
W. J. L. U. W
IJAYAWEERA ,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
10th March, 2010.
Collective Agreement No. 24 of 2010
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
This Collective Agreement made on this 16th day of December 2009, pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act, between De La Rue
Lanka Currency and Security Print (Pvt) Limited, a Company incorporated under the laws of Sri Lanka, having its principal place of
business at Export Processing Zone, Biyagama, Malwana of One Part (hereinafter referred to as “the Employer”)  and the Inter Company
Employees Union, a Trade Union registered under the laws of Sri Lanka, having its registered office at 158/18, E. D. Dabare Mawatha,
Colombo, of the Other Part, (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”) witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
1. Parties to be covered and bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind De La Rue Lanka Currency and Security Print (Pvt)
Limited, the Inter Company Employees Union and employees of the Employer in manual grades on permanent monthly contracts of
employment (hereinafter referred to as “Employees”).
1A – G12627 – 375 (2010/03)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the 1st April 2009 and shall thereafter continue to
be in force unless it is determined by either party giving one month’s notice in writing to the other, provided however, that neither party
hereto shall give such notice to the other party before the 1st day of March 2012.
All parties agreed to put forward their proposals for renewal of the Collective Agreement, in writing, at least 6 months prior to expiry
of the Agreement.
3. Revision of salaries:
(i) salaries drawn by employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall be revised in the following manner.
(a) First year commencing 1.4.2009 -12.5]
(b) Second year commencing 1.4.2010 -12.0]
(c) Third year commencing 1.4.2011 -0 8.0]
(ii) In addition to the revision of salaries in the 3rd year, as set out above, the Company shall at its discretion grant performance-
based increments ranging from 1] to 3] subject to a minimum of  1].
4. Special ex gratia.– The company shall make a special ex gratia payment of Rs. 5,000/- to confirmed employees serving the
Company as at 16th November 2009, which shall not attract consequential benefits such as EPF/ETF/Gratuity, overtime, etc. This payment
shall be made at the end  of Novemeber 2009, and for employees who have joined during the course of the year 2009, up to the date of signing
this Agreement, the payment shall be made on a prorata basis on completed months worked.
5. Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Employer that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Employer shall continue to pay
two months' salaryas annual bonus. The hitherto practice with regard to the time of payment and deductions based on attendance,
punishments made after a domestic inquiry, unauthorized absence shall continue. New employees shall enjoy the benefit of the bonus
proportionately. The current practice of 25] forfeiture of annual bonus for disciplinary written warnings will continue.
6. Production bonus.
(i) The Employer shall continue to make payment of a production bonus equivalent to one month's salary of an employee subject
to the achievement of the following conditions collectively:
a. Commissioning and production on simultan 212 by 15th December 2009.
b. Meeting packing agreement of 1,226 billion by 31/3/10.
c. Meeting Venezuela delivery dates as declared by the management of the Employer.
However, it is also agreed by the Employer to make payment of 1/3rd of the production bonus in the event each of the above
mentioned criteria is achieved. e.g.: If only (a) and (b) are achieved, they will receive an amount equivalent to 2/3rd the
production bonus.
(ii) It is also agreed by parties to revise production bonus targets as at 31st March in the years 2010 and 2011 respectively.
(iii)parties agree that the Employer reserves its right to 10 of forfeiture on production bonus payable on account of serious
production/quality/administration/EHS related written warnings issued after a proper investigation. This condition will come
into effect on 1st April 2010.
(iv) In addition to the above, the deduction from the productin bonus shall also be made on account of absence and shall be pro-
rated on a weekly basis. This condition shall be applicable for any period of absence over and above the stipulated leave
entitlement. e.g.: Deduction of 1/52 of production bonus for every 5 days absence.
7. Shift allowances.– Subject to the present criteria of payment it is agreed by parties that the shift allowances will be revised in the
following manner for the duration of the Agreement:
First year Second year Third year
1st shift Rs. 70.00  Rs. 75.00 Rs. 80.00
(6.00 a.m. to 2.00 p.m.)
2nd shift Rs. 100.00  Rs. 105.00 Rs. 110.00
(2.00 p.m. to 10.00 p.m)
3rd shift  (Night shift) Rs. 750.00  Rs. 750.00 Rs. 800.00

<!-- page 3 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
3A
8. Medical benefits.–
(i)OPD  – With effect from 1st April 2009, the Employer shall reimburse expenses incurred by employees in respect of OPD
treatment to a maximum of Rs. 8750/- for the 1st year, Rs. 9450/- for the 2nd year and Rs. 10,500/- for the 3rd year and such
amount shall be offered to each confirmed employee as a family unit.
ii) Hospitalization Insurance– With effect from 1st April 2010, the Employer shall pay the premium for Hospitalization
Insurance as a family unit, in respect of hospitalization to a maximum of Rs. 60,000/- per employee per annum.
iii) Life insurance – With effect from 1st April 2010, the Employer shall pay the premium for a Life Insurance cover to a
maximum of Rs. 250,000/-
9. Parties agree that the terms and condition hitherto applicable shall continue to be in force subject to the revisions set out in this
Agreement.
It is also agreed by parties that the Memorandum of Understanding signed between the Employer and the Union (annexed hereto as
Annex I) on the 12th May 2009 with regard to change of work arrangements, shall also constitute part of the terms and conditions of
employment.
  10.Trade Union Action– The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree that they shall not, during the operation of this
Agreement, take or resort to any form of Trade Union action in respect of any matter covered by this Agreement.
  11. Dispute Settlement Procedure–  (a) The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree that any dispute/problem/issue that
may arise between the parties, in respect of any matter not covered by this Agreement, to resolve such dispute/problem/issue in the manner
provided in clauses (b) to (e) below.
b) Whenever there is a dispute, a written statement of the dispute should be forwarded by the Union’s Branch Committee to the
Employer, and at least two weeks given for the Employer to resolve this dispute.
c) If no satisfactory solution is found, the matter should be referred to the Parent Union and to the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon
(EFC) for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute.
d) If after the discussion, the matter cannot be resolved by the intervention of the EFC and the Parent Union, the conciliatory
proceedings under the Industrial Disputes Act should be followed.
e) If after conciliation has failed in the Labour Department, the Union wishes to take Trade Union action, written notice should be
given of not less than fourteen days (14) to the Employer and the EFC regarding such Trade Union action.
12. Cooperation between the parties:– i) The Employer agrees to continue with the facility of remitting check off directly to the Union.
ii) The Employer will continue to grant the facility of permitting the President and the Secretary of the branch to attend monthly
meetings of the Union. The Employer also agrees to release not more than two employees to attend to Training Programs /
Seminars conducted by the Union, not more than twice in each calendar year provided, however, that the Union requests in
writing for this facility with sufficient notice to the Employer.
(iii)Employees agree to continue to extend their fullest co-operation in respect of enhancing productivity at the work place, which
include the following:
(a) Employees will extend their fullest co-operation in respect of any change in work arrangements and shift operations
in the Security Finishing Department. The Employer agrees to discuss with the Union and the employees, proposed
changes in work arrangements in advance.
(b) Changes in relation to work arrangements and shift operations as currently practiced at the work place. In this regard
it is agreed by the Employer to discuss in advance with the Union and the employees, of any changes it proposes to
implement in relation to work arrangements.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
(c) Flexibility to move within currently practiced shift patterns with at least one weeks prior notice, other than in
exceptional circumstances, to facilitate training, manning of new machinery and production requirements.
(d) All activities connected to the management of quality environment, health and safety, implementation of interna-
tional standards, continuous improvement and training activities.
(e) All necessary measures in relation to handing over of work between shifts. In view of this undertaking, the Employer
will continue to implement the present practice of granting a grace period of five minutes in the event the employee
reports late.
(f) Taking of all necessary measures by employees in the Maintenance Division in respect of breakdowns in order to
minimize the impact on production including flexibility to work during factory shut-downs (New Year, Wesak,
X'mas) if required for annual maintenance and other maintenance matters.
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hands at Colombo on this Sixteenth day of December Two Thousand
and Nine.
04 – 90
My No.: CI/650
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
The Collective agreement entered into between The Asbastos Cement Industries Limited, No. 175, Sri Sumanatissa Mawatha, Colombo 12 of
the one part and the Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya, No. 301, T. B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 of the other part on 17th February 2010
is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition
1956)
W. J. L. U. W
IJAYAWEERA ,
Commissioner General of Labour.
 Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
15th March, 2010.


<!-- page 5 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
5A
Collective Agreement No. 23 of 2010
Agreement Between Asbestos Cement Industries Limited
AND
Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya
This Agreement entered into at Colombo on this Seventeenth day of February Two Thousand and Ten, pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act
between The Asbestos Cement Industries Limited (hereinafter referred to as "The Employer") having its registered Office at No. 175, Sri
Sumanatissa Mawatha, Colombo 12 and its factory at Katukurunduwatta Road, Off Templers Road, Ratmalana and Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka
Sangamaya having its registered office at 301, T. B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as "The Union") is as follows:
1. Employer Covered and Bound.–This Agreement shall bind Messrs. Asbestos Cement Industries Limited, Limited Liability
Companay incorporated in Sri Lanka and having its registered Office at 175, Sri Sumanatissa  Mawatha, Colombo 12 as Employer.
2. Employees covered and Bound.–This Agreement shall cover and bind Members of the Union who are employed as permanent
employees in a manual or labouring capacity by the Company but will not be applicable to employees employed in such capacities as who
are on probation or are employed by the day or by the job.
3. Earlier Agreements
(a) Whereas the Employer and commercial and Industrial Workers' Union have entered into an Agreement on 27th August
1993 in the presence of the Commissioner of Labour.
(b) And whereas the employer and Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya have entered into an Agreement on 9th January
1998 and published in the Extra Ordinary Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1032/7 of
16.06.1998.
2. The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of earlier Agreements referred to in Para 3 (1)
above except the Agreement referred to in Para 3 (1) (a).
4. Date of Operation and Duration of Agreement.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the first  day of December Two
Thousand and nine shall thereafter continue in force unless it is  determined by either party giving six month's notice in writing to the other,
provided expressly that one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the First day of June, Two Thousand and Twelve
and such notice shall not expire before the 30th day of November, Two Thousand and Twelve.
(a) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lanka Rupee under any provision of law, a party shall be at liberty
to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month's notice in writing to the other after having discussion with the party concerned in
terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
5. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of service be writtern or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall come into bring at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
(a) Standing Orders.–
On any matter not expressly provided for in this Agreement, the Worker shall be bound by the Standing orders and rules of
the Company in force from time to time and such standing orders and rules shall be deemed to form part and parcel of the
Contracts of employment of each worker.
6. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months.
Provided however that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee,
the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the
Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation the
Employer shall have the right to terminate the service of the Employee without notice.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
If the Employee's services are not terminated for unsatisfactory service during the period of probation or extended probation and the
Employee has not been confirmed by the Employer the Employee shall be deemed to be confirmed in his Employer's service with effect
from the day on which the period of probation or extended probation as the case may be ended.
7. Attendance.– (1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on
every day (other than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work
throughout the nomal working hours.
(2) If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the Employer where
work is available.
(3) Irregular attendance or un-punctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to appropriate
disciplinary action.
(4) The Employer shall be entitled to take disciplinary action including termination of employment in respect of habitual absenteeism
of an Employee.
8. Hours of Work.– There shall be four shifts of work in the factory and the hours of work of such shifts shall be those hours
presently worked on each of these four shifts :
The first three shall be on a rotation basis effected weekly and the Employees of these shifts shall be required to work on any of these
shifts according to the exigencies of the Employer's requirements. The Employer may change the hours of work at its discretion, by prior
notice.
9. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer an Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct
his wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
10. Overtime.– (1) If required by the Employer an Employee shall work reasonable overtime, which has been authorized by the
Employer. Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation, which is acceptable to the Employer, shall
constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
(2) Overtime work (i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one half (1 1/2) times
the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of 18 (a) hereof.
The Union proposed that the rate of overtime payment to be arrived at by dividing the wages by 200 and at the request of the Union
this matter has been referred to the Commissioner of Labour for a ruling.
11. Weekly Holidays.– (1) In respect of each week every Employee shall be allowed a holiday on the Sunday in that week as the
weekly holiday. Provided however that if any Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any
period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's wage in respect
of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 18 (b) hereof.
(2) The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions –
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forefeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day's wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and in
such event that Employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's wage computed in accordance
with the provisions of clause 18 (b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that Employee within six (6)
days of that weekly holiday. Provided further that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly holidays in any one
calendar month the Employer may with the consent of the Employee.
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that Employee
shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid pay him one
day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 (b) hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday, or

<!-- page 7 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
7A
(b) In case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in
respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s wage
as aforesaid employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii)That in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration -
(a) One and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18(a)
hereof for the No. of hours worked during the first eight (8) hours; and
(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18(a) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work.
(3) The provisions of this sub-clause shall not apply to Employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the Employer
for periods exceeding twelve (12) days in respect of the duration of each such period.
(4) Saturday shall be a Half working day (working time - 5 hours) each week.
(5) In computing the period of 28 hours, every day on which an Employee is on no pay shall not be reckoned for the purpose of
computing the said 28 hours.
(6) An Employee must work for 28 hours in a week to be entitled for the weekly holiday and in computing the period of 28 hours
the Employer shall include:
(a) every holiday allowed and approved by the Employer to the Employee as annual holiday, casual leave and sick leave and
(b) every Public Holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 13 of the Collective Agreement.
12. Annual Holidays.– Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board for
the Engineering Trade.
13. Public Holidays.– (1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the decisions of the wages Board for
the Engineering Trade. Provided however that an Employee may be employed on Public holiday in accordance with the decisions of the
Wages Board for the Engineering Trade.
(2) If any Public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day either in
the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such Public Holiday shall be granted to the Employee
as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of Clause 11 hereof.
(3) If any Public Holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday, the No. of hours
constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding such Public Holiday shall be five (5) hours.
14. Casual Leave.– (1) In respect of each year of employment during which any Employee has been continuously in employment
that Employee shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill health of that Employee’s
entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as “Casual Leave”) with remuneration for the period or an
aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such casual leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration.
Provided however that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken at any time save and except upon the ground of ill health.
Provided further that any worker shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period of
annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of any Employee’s first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be
entitled to casual leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months service.
(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the application.
Where an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave his difficulty shall be notified to the Employee as soon as
possible after the application is made and in such case the Employee may be required to state the reason for the application in order that the
Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual leave.
15. Sick Leave.– In any year an Employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days. Provided that –
(a) his illness is supported by a certificate from a registered medical practitioner unless waived by the Employer and
(b) The Employce shall not be on probation within the meaning of clause (6) hereof Provided however that an Employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months' probation and sick leave not
exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months' probation.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
16. Monthly consolidated wages.– 1. Subject to the provisions of Clause 17 hereof, as from the First Day of December Two
thousand and Nine each Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained a monthly consolidated
wage on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto.
2. The scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto include:
(a) The Allowance of Twenty Five (25) per cent upto a maximum of Fifty Rupees (Rs. 50) per month payable in terms of the
Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers' Law (No. 1) of 1978 and the Allowance of Fifty Five Rupees (Rs. 55) per month
payable in terms of the Supplementary Allowance of Workers' Act No. 65 of 1979.
(b) A sum of Rupees One Hundred and Fifty (Rs. 150).
(c) A sum of Rupees Four Hundred (Rs. 400) in terms of the Extra Ordinary Gazette No. 1143/9 of 31.07.2000.
3. This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
4. (a) At the expiry of the twelve month period commencing from the First day of November Two Thousand and Nine the scales
of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto shall be revised by addition to and conolidation with the salary at each  stage of
each grade of an amount in Sri Lanka Rupees equal to the number of complete points by which the Colombo Consumers' Price Index figure
has increased during such twelve month period, multiplied by sixty seven (67), and the salary payable to each Employee under this
Agreement shall accordingly be increased by a like amount as from the First day of November Two Thousand and Ten.
At the expiry of each twelve month period commencing from the First day of November Two Thousand and Ten the scales of
consolidated wages revised in the manner prescribed above shall be revised in the like manner as from the First day of November of the
succeeding year by addition to and consolidation with the wage at each stage and grade of the consolidated wages in force in the twelve month
period immediately preceding of an amount equal to the number of complete points by which the Colombo Consumers' Price Index has
increased during such preceding twelve month period, multiplied by sixty seven (67) and the salary of each Employee as from the First day
of November of the succeeding year shall be increased by a like amount during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
5. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka.
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging the
Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and in
terms of such written law:
(b) Recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whether or
not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
17. Conversion to scales of Monthly consolidated wages.– (1) For the purpose of ascertaining the wages which an Employee shall
receive with effect from 1st December 2009 on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto, the
following provisions, subject to the provisions of Clause (16) hereof, shall apply.
(2) The wages for the month of November 2009 have been consolidated at 170 points of the Colombo Consumer Price Index. An
employee who is covered and bound by this Agreement and has also in employment as at the effective date of Agreement will receive an
immediate increase of 20% of the wages for the month of November 2009, from the effective date.
The employee will receive an additional wage increase of Rs. 975 for the Financial Year 2010 / 2011 and another Rs. 1,000 for the
Financial Year 2011 / 2012 effective from 1st April each year.
(3) Each Employee will then be placed on the exact point of the wage scale applicable to him in the Second Schedule hereto or on the
next higher stage if there is no corresponding wage point on the wage scale in the Second Schedule hereto.
(4) When an employee reaches the maximum scale in the consolidated wages set out in the second schedule hereto due to the special
wage increase, such employee will be placed on the appropriate step beyond the maximum scale.

<!-- page 9 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
9A
(5) The consolidated wages set out in the second schedule hereto will not be applicable to the Permanent employee who will be
employed after this date of Agreement and such employee will be paid a monthly wage as follows:
Monthly Wage Annual Increment
Skilled Rs. 11,673 210
Semi Skilled Rs. 11,608 150
UnSkilled Rs. 11,601 125
18. Wages for Periods less than one Month.– For  the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee  for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following.–
 (a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240);
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30);
(c)  for one-half day a day's wage ascertained as above divide by two (2);
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day's wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7);
19. Non-Recurring cost of Living Gratuity.– (1) As the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto have been
fixed on the basis of the Colombo Consumers' Price Index being 170 an employee shall subject to the provisions of the succeeding  sub-clause
be entitled to receive and the employer shall  be liable  to pay a non-recurring cost of living gratuity to the employee in each year in respect
of the preceding twelve (12) months (01 st November to 31st  October hereinafter referred to as the "qualifying  period") commencing from
the first day of November Two Thousand and Nine ascertained in accordance with the under noted formula.
The formula : If the average of the Colombo Consumers' Price Index for the qualifying period exceeds 170 a sum computed at Rupees
Sixty Seven (Rs. 67/-) for each complete point (i.e. 1.0) by which such average exceeds 170 respect of each month of service during the
qualifying period.
(2) When at the expiry of each twelve month period commencing on the first day of November Two Thousand and Nine the scales
of consolidated wages have been revised in manner set out in clause 16 (4) hereof, the base index figure in the formula for the purpose of
calculating the non-recurring cost of living gratuity shall thereafter be increased by the number of points by which the Colombo Consumers'
Price Index figure has risen during each twelve month period as specified in clause 16 (4) hereof.
(3) The non-recurring cost of living gratuity shall be payable by the employer to an employee who is eligible to receive the same by
virtue of his service under the employer during a part of the qualifying year by reason of the fact that he is not in the employer's service when
the non-recurring cost of living gratuity becomes due in November of any year or he joined that employer's service during the course of the
qualifying year.
(4) The non-recurring cost of living gratuity shall  not be payable to an employee in respect of any period for which he receives no
wages for whatever reason.
(5) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on the non-recurring, cost of living
gratuity.
20. Provident Fund.– (1)  The employer and an employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the
Employees' Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employees' Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980, where the employer and employee as at the date
hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the employees' Provident Fund Act, the more
favourable rates of contribution will continue.
21. Terminal Benefits.– (1) employer will subject as hereinfater provided pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with
the scheme of terminal benefits set out in this Clause.
(2) The scheme shall apply to every employee in the service of the employer on the first day of December Two Thousand and Nine
so long as this Agreement continues in force.
(3) the basis of the payment of Terminal Benefits shall be as follows:
(a) Employees with service not exceeding five years. Nil
(b) Employees with service exceeding five years but not exceeding twenty years. Half month's Terminal Wages for each completed
Year of service.
(c)  Employees with service exceeding twenty years but not exceeding twenty For the 1st 20 years service 1/2 month's
five years. Terminal wages for each completed year of
service and 3/4th month's wages for each com
pleted year of service for the period exceeding
20 years.
(d) Employees with service exceeding Twenty five years. (i) 1/2 month's Terminal wages for each completed
year of service for the 1st 20 years service.
(ii) 3/4  month's Terminal wages for each com
pleted year of service for the period
exceeding 20 years but not exceeding 25 years.
(iii) 1 month's Terminal wages for each completed
year of service for the period exceeding 25
years.
(4) If an employee dies due to natural or accidental death whilst in service, the Terminal Benefits payable to him will be increased
by 25%.
(5) The wage on which the said Terminal Benefits shall be payable will be the last consolidated monthly wage receivable by an
employee.
(6) Part of the period of Half year shall be reckoned as half year in computing the service of an employee.
(7) For the purpose of calculating Terminal Benefits under this Clause an year of service shall be a period of not less than six months.
(8) The Terminal Benefits provided for in this Clause shall be payable to an employee on the cessation of his service arising from
death or any other cause whatsoever. Provided however that if at the date of cessation of an employee's service there is due to the employer
from the employee any sum on account of fraud, misappropriation, any outstanding loan or liability or any other account and the same
cannot be recovered from the amount in the employee's credit in the Provident Fund the same shall be recovered from the Terminal Benefits
provided for herein.
(9) On  the death of an employee whilst in service, who is eligible to receive Terminal Benefits under this Clause, the Employer shall
pay such Terminal Benefits in the manner and to the persons hereinafter set forth -
(a) If there is a valid nomination in force for the purpose of the deceased employee's Provident Fund at the date of his death,
to the nominee or nominees of such employee in conformity with the form of nomination where such nominee is surviving
and of full age.

<!-- page 11 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
11A
(b) Where there is no valid nomination or in the event of the nominee or any one or more of the nominees having pre deceased
the employee, or in the event of a nominee being a minor at the time that the payment of the Terminal Benefits become due,
the employer shall make payment only after the person or persons entitled to the payment have established their claim in
law and furnished proof thereof.
(10) in the event of any written law providing for the payment of gratuity or Terminal Benefits the more favourable scheme shall
apply but not both.
(11) No employee shall be entitled to any Gratuity or Terminal Benefits in addition to the Terminal Benefits provided for in this
Clause or by any written law as the case may be.
22. Bonus .– The present scheme of the Payment of Annual Bonus to employees which is an ex-gratia payment shall continue to be
in force as enumerated below:
(A) A SERVICE BONUS in a sum equivalent to 1 1/2 month's wage will be payable to each employee eligible for such payment
according to the present scheme and practice relating to such payment which shall be in two instalments payable in April
and December and the amount would be equivalent to 1/2 month's wages of April and 01 month wages of December
respectively.
(B) A PROFIT AND ATTENDANCE BONUS in a sum equivalent to 20% of the consolidated wages earned by such
employee during the Financial Year shall be payable in respect of each Financial Year.
(1) The Payment of the said quantum of 1 1/2 month's SERVICE BONUS and the payment of the said quantum of
PROFIT AND A TTENDANCE BONUS shall be conditional on the Employer Company declaring a dividend of
12% or more for the Financial Year in respect of which the said Bonuses are payable.
(2) In the event of the dividend declared being less than 12% then the said Bonuses shall be paid on a pro-rata basis.
(C) A SPECIAL BONUS in a sum equivalent to 8% of the total consolidated wages earned by an employee during the preceding
12 months ie. August to July provided that the dividend declared to the shareholders in respect of such Financial Year is
between 25% and 35%.
(D) A SPECIAL BOUNS in a sum equivalent to 8% of the total consolidated wages earned by an employee during the preceding
12 months ie. August to July provided that the shareholders of the Company are issued any Bonus shares in respect of that
Financial Year.
(E) In the event of one of the SPECIAL BONUSES set out in sub-clauses (C) or (D) above is not payable, then the other of the
SPECIAL BONUS shall be increased from 8% to 14% of the total consolidated wages earned by an employee during the
relevant Financial year.
(F) If the dividend declared under Clause (C) exceeds 35% then the 8% SPECIAL BONUS shall be increased to 16% of the total
consolidated wages earned by an employee during the preceding 12 months ie. August to July however, the SPECIAL
BONUS shall be a maximum of 16%.
(G) An Attendance Incentive Bonus in a sum equivalent to 1/2 month's wages of December will be payable in January to an
employee who did not exceed his leave entitlement in the preceding year (January to December).
(H) An Attendance Incentive Bonus in a sum equivalent to 1/2 month's wages of December will be payable in January to an
employee who did not utilize his Casual and Sick Leave in the preceding year (January to December) in addition to the
encashment of such leave.
(i) Consolidated wages for purposes of Bonus payment shall mean the consolidated wages as set out in the second
schedule of the Collective Agreement. An employee who is in the employment of the Company at least one month
before the dates of bonus and ex-gratia payments is entitled to receive such payments.
23. Annual Increments.– (1) The Employer shall be entitled to defer, stop or suspend the Annual Increment which is granted in
April of an employee for irregular attendance or unpunctuality without the necessity of an inquiry in the following instances:
(a) An employee with over 5 years of service exceeding his leave entitlement by 15 days during the previous Calenda r
year.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
(b) An employee with over 3 years of service but less than 5 years of service exceeding his normal leave entitlement by
10 days during the previous calendar year.
(c) An employee with over 1 year of service but less than 3 years of service exceeding his normal leave entitlement by 5
days during the previous calendar year.
(d) An employee with over 6 months of service after confirmation not less than 1 year of service exceeding his normal
leave entitlement by 3 days during the previous calendar year.
(2) The employer shall be entitled to defer, stop or suspend the Annual Increment of an employee as a matter of punishment for
general inefficiency or for any act of misconduct, after the employee concerned has been served with a show cause letter and has been found
guilty after due inquiry.
(3) The employer may grant increments to those employees who have reached the maximum scale in the consolidated wages set out
in the second schedule  hereto due to the special wage increases given in time to time not withstanding the fact that he has already, reached
the maximum scale.
(4) The employer may at its sole discretion grant increments to those employees who have reached the maximum subject to para (3)
above.
24. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the employee by a
letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the employee. If the employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given  to the
employee orally by the employer inthe presence of two witnesses. In the alternative, the employer may send the letter of warning to the
employee concerned by Registered Post.
25. Suspension.– (1) An employee may be suspended without pay by the employer–
(a) pending an inquiry to be held by such employer on a charge of misconduct which warrants dismissal;
(b) in order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property  or disturbance of the business of the employer;
(c) as a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after due inquiry.
(2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1) (a) or within twenty four (24) hours hereof the employer shall provide the
employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter hold an inquiry into the charge or
charges in terms of Clause 26 hereof.
26. Disciplinary Action.– Where the employer proposes to proceed against an employee then–
(1) Irrespective of whether an employee has been suspended under Clause 25 hereof or not, the employee shall be furnished with
a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such employee and such show
cause notice shall give the employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation to the charge or
charges preferred.
(2) Within three (3) clear working days after the date show cause notice, the employee shall furnish in writing to the employer the
answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such employee. Provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable the
employee may ask the employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice
and where such request is made by an employee to the employer, the employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as
is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(3) If the employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee the employee shall if he is under suspension
forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
(4) If the employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee  to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the employer, the employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10) working days from the date of
receipt by him of  the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(5) after holding such inquiry the employer shall notify the employee of the finding on each of the charges in the show cause notice
and the punishment, if nay, imposed by the employer. Provided that if the employer fails to make an order except for reasons beyond the
control of the employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from the conclusion of the inquiry into such
charges, the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee in
respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.

<!-- page 13 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
13A
(6) if the employee is under suspension and the employer after such inquiry makes order that –
(a) the employee shall not be dismissed then the employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the provisions
of Sub-clause 25(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespective of such other
punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the employer on the findings as to the charges in the show cause notice.
(b) the employee shall be dismissed, the employee's dismissal shall take effect from the date of the employee's suspension and
accordingly the employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.
(c) in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the employee, the employer is unable
to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities for further
investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities or if in view of the serious
or involved nature of the charges referred against the employee the matter had been previously referred to the Police or other
authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such
circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.
(7) if any case where an employee is suspended as provided for herein the employer fails to make an order under paragraphs (a) to
(c) of the preceding Sub-clause for any reason other than that of the employee's own seeking within thirty (30) working days from the date
of the employee's suspension, the employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for the period of thirty (30)  days from the date
of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in excess of thirty (30) days upto the date on which the
employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding Sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(8) in any case where an employee is suspended as provided herein the employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of
Sub-clause 6 within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the employee unless he is prevented from so doing by reason of the
employees own seeking or for reasons beyond control of the employer or it is agreed between the employer and the Union that in the
circumstances of the case the period ninety (90) days be extended for such further time as may be agreed.
(9) the employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in Sub-clause (4) and (5) hereof where the employer proposes
to warn the employee or where the employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however that if the Union disputes the warning or
punishment imposed on the employee by the employer and requests the holding of an inquiry the employer shall comply with such request
and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not
commenced within ten (10) working days after receipt of the employee's explanation shall not be material or relevant.
27. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the
employer and there shall be no obligation on the employer to give the employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however that an
employee who has retired may, at the discretion of the employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.
28. Termination of Service.– (1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any employee by the employer except for
work usually performed by the day, or by the job, or by journey, shall subject to the provisions of Clause 6 hereof or unless otherwise
expressly stipulated be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable from
month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month's previous notice be given by either party to the
other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as causal or temporary work he shall be informed thereof at the
commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period or on the failure of the
employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.
29. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of its members who are employed in
any work place of the employer. In regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as matters affecting general terms
and conditions of employment either in the work place or the trade as a whole the following provisions shall apply –
(1) When the Union is representative of not less than forty percentum (40%) of the employees whose membership  subscription
is not in arrears the employer will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and negotiate with it on that
basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty percentum (40%) of such employees the
employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with all the Unions competent
to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such Union.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
(2) When the employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one work place and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one work place but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other employees in the
service of the employer the competence of the Union to make such claim or raise such matter shall be determined by reference
to the duly qualified members of such Union in proportion to the total number of employees in the service of the employer in
Sri Lanka.
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the employer the Union is competent to make
general claims or raise general matters the same shall be determined by a referendum which shall be held by Department of
Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the employer and that Union and the parties hereto.
30. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment, Benefits.– (1) The union and its members and the employees covered
and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they will
not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered
and bound by this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement
other than by mutual agreement.
(2) The employer agrees with the Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement that he shall not
seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by the employees covered and bound by this Agreement other
than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provisions of Sub-clause (1) or (2) may be resolved by voluntary
arbitration but only if all the parties concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the employer the Union commits a breach of any of the terms of
this Collective Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted
by the employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and the same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the employer's right to
restore such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the employer may decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries.– If an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 26 is a member of the
Union, the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the employer pursuant to such show cause notice –
(a) The employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow a member of such Union (hereinafter referred to as "Observer") to be
present as an Observer without loss of wages for absence from work.
(b) If the employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an Observer to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant to
such show cause notice, he shall at least forty eight (48) hours before the time appointed for the commencement of the inquiry
submit to the employer the name of such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any question which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not be
entitled to represent the employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw there from and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
(f) The word Observer in this Clause shall mean an employee of the employer who is a member of the Branch Union.
3. Union Meetings.– The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union–
(a) In respect of each meeting which the Union desires to hold at the employer's premises, an application for permission shall
be previously made to the employer.

<!-- page 15 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
15A
(b) If the employer decides to grant permission, the employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of the under
noted conditions–
(i) That no person other than an employee in the service of the employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, the Office Bearers of the parent Union may, with
the previous approval of the employer, attend;
(iii)Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of
such Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of, or in connection
with, a meeting of the union to the Employer's property or any other persons at the Employer's premises and the Union
shall indemnify the employer and keep the employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.– (1) following provisions shall apply to duty leave–
Without prejudice to the right of the employer to refuse to grant permission if, in his discretion, the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of the
Union–
(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Department of Labour in connection with a dispute
between the Union and the Employer,
or
(b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals.
without loss of wages for such absence.
2. The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union Course or Seminar
or Conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays which he wishes to utilise
for the purpose.
5. Check Off.– (1) In this clause "Employer" shall mean the Employer bound by this Collective Agreement in whose establishment
the membership of the Union is not less than forty percent (40%) of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
2. The Employer shall, on the written request of an Employee, deduct from the wages due to such Employee the current monthly
Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the amount so deducted to
the Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
3. Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form set
out in Form No. 1 hereinafter referred to as an "Authorization" as set out in the Second Schedule hereto.
4.  Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement to that effect in the
form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a "Revocation" as set out in the Second Schedule hereto.
5.  As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of receipt
of cuch authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by revocation.
6. As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization. Provided however–
(a) That, the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with sub-clause (5) or (6):

<!-- page 16 -->

16A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
(b) that, at his discretion, the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check off in any month in which the
deductions by way of check  off will together with all other deductions from the employee's wages in that month exceed the
deductions permitted by law.
7. The Employer shall not later than the tenth day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the Employees
in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each authorization by a cheque payable
to the Treasurer thereof and crossed "Account Payee".
8. The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope addressed to the
Treasurer of the union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as aforesaid, any sum other than  the Union
dues actually deducted.
6. Trade Union Action.– The Union shall  undertake to respect the terms of the Agreement and not to seek  to alter such terms other
than by negotiation. No. strike or other form of Trade Union action could  be undertaken.
If the executive committee of the Union is of opinion that certain actions of the employer are vindictive or detrimental to the interests
of the Union, It reserves the right to engage in strike or other form of Trade Union action. In such an event seven days notice of intended
action be given in writing to the employer and the commissioner of Labour.
7. Recoveries due on the cessation of employment.– The employer shall be entitled to recover any outstanding loan or liability from
the employee or the outstanding amount guaranteed by him at the time of another employee taking loan by a set off against any payment such
as terminal wages, terminal benefits, other than the amount payable in terms of the payment of Gratuity Act, refund of Thrift fund,
encashment of unutilized leave etc., due to such employee at the time of cessation of employment.
8. Grievance procedure.–
(a) Any Worker is free to make representations to the Management in respect of an individual  grievance, dispute or other matter
and the procedure for settling the same is as follows:
(1) In  the first instance, the matter shall be discussed with the Plant Assistant or Sectional Head as the case may be.
(2) If the matter is not settled by the Plant Assistant or Sectional Head, the Worker may then together with a Branch Union
Committee Member discuss the matter  with the Personnel Superintendent.
(3) In the event of the matter not being satisfactorily settled at Stage (ii) the employee may together with a Branch Union
representative discuss the matter with the Personnel Manager.
(b) The Branch Union is free to make representations to the Employer in respect of  any grievance or other matter affecting the
Workers concerned  and bound by this agreement generally and the procedure for  settling the same shall be as follows:
(i) The Branch Union shall submit the matter in writing to the Personnel Manager for settlement.
(ii) In the event of  the matter not being satisfactorily settled at Stage (i) above, the Branch Union may make an appeal to the
Director or Managing Director.
(c) In the event of  the matter not being satisfactorily settled at Stage (b) above the Branch Union may take up the matter with
the Parent Union and it will be settled at the Management and Parent Union meeting.
(d) In the event of  the matter has not being satisfactorily settled at Stage (c) the Branch Union may with the Parent Union make
an appeal to the Board of Directors of the Company.
(e) In the event of  the matter has not being satisfactorily settled at Stage (d) the Parent Union may on behalf of the Branch Union
make an appeal to the Commissioner of Labour.

<!-- page 17 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
17A
FORM No. 1
Name of Employer:
AUTHORISATION
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement effecting Employees employed in a manual or labouring capacity in
the ……………… Trade and bearing No. ………  of 20…… and  I desire to avail myself of the facility for check off contained in the
Collective Agreement to a which I am eligible as a member of the ……………………… Union, please deduct from my wages each month
a sum of Rupees ………………………… (Rs. ………………) in  respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and
remit the same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from my wages next  due immediately following
the date hereof.
…………………… …………………………
(Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………………
(Full name of Employee)
RECEIVED ON………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(To be filled by Employer)
FORM No. 2
Name of Employer:
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour
of   …………………………………… Union with effect from the wages next  due to me immediately following the date hereof.
…………………… …………………………
(Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………………
(Full name of Employee)
RECEIVED ON ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(To be filled by Employer)
SCALES  OF  MONTHLY  WAGES  CONSOLIDATED  AT  THE  COST  OF  LIVING  INDEX  FIGURES  AT  170 PAY ABLE  TO  PERMANENT  WORKERS  WHO  ARE   IN EMPLOYMENT  AS
AT  01ST  DECEMBER  2009.
Stage Unskilled Semiskilled Skilled
1 13976 14008 14193
2 14101 14158 14403
3 14226 14308 14613
4 14351 14458 14823
5 14476 14608 15033
6 14601 14758 15243
7 14726 14908 15453
8 14851 15058 15663
9 14976 15208 15873
10 15101 34 15358 34 16083 34
11 15226 x 15508 x 16293 x
12 15351 Rs. 125/- 15658 Rs. 150/- 16503 Rs. 210/-
13 15476 15808 16713
14 15601 15958 16923
15 15726 16108 17133
16 15851 16258 17343
2 A – G 12627

<!-- page 18 -->

18A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
2
17 15976 16408 17553
18 16101 16558 17763
19 16226 16708 17973
20 16351 16858 18183
21 16476 17008 18393
22 16601 17158 18603
23 16726 17308 18813
24 16851 17458 19023
25 16976 17608 19233
26 17101 17758 19443
27 17226 17908 19653
28 17351 18058 19863
29 17476 18208 20073
30 17601 18358 20283
31 17726 18508 20493
32 17851 18658 20703
33 17976 18808 20913
34 18101 18958 21123
35 18226 19108 21333
Starting Salary 11601 11608 11673
Minimum increase 2375 2400 2520
13976 14008 14193
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to
them –
Words
Branch Union
Check Off
Dispute
Employee (for convenience sometimes
referred to as "he" or its grammatical
variations)
Employer (for convenience sometimes
referred to as "he" or its grammatical
variations)
Industrial Disputes Act
Normal Incremental Date
Union or Unions
Wage
Week
Year
Meanings
The Branch Union of a Union or Unions covered and bound by this Collective
Agreement.
The act of the Employer deducting, at the request of the Union, subscription payable
to the Union by an Employee from the latter's pay with his concurrence.
Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
An Employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Subject to the provisions of Clause 5 of Part II hereof the Employer bound by this
Agreement.
The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950.
The date on which an Employee would normally receive an increment.
A Union or the Unions covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the Second
Schedule hereto.
The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the Succeeding
Saturday night.
A continuous period of twelve (12) months.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the famine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 19 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
19A
DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective as from the 1st December, Two Thousand and Nine and shall thereafter continue in force unless
it is determined by either party giving six month’s notice in writing to the other, provided expressly that one party hereto shall not give such
notice to the other party before the 30th of June, Two Thousand and Twelve and such notice shall not expire before the Thirtieth day of
November, Two Thousand and Twelve.
IN WITNESS OF THE ABOVE AGREEMENT the following persons have signed this AGREEMENT on behalf of the parties
hereto at Colombo, on this 17th day of February, 2010.


<!-- page 20 -->

20A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
Memorandum of settlement between Asbestos Cement Industries Limited and Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya
The monthly wages will be consolidated at 170 points of the Colombo Consumer Price Index.
The employees will be given a wage increase of 20% of the wages received as at 30th November 2009, commencing December 2009,
A wage increase of Rs. 975 will be given in April, 2010 and another increase of Rs. 1000 in April 201l
The annual increments for skilled  grade will be Rs. 210 p.m. for semi skilled grade will be Rs. 150 p.m. and for unskilled grade will
be Rs. 125 p.m.
Traveling  allowance payable will be @ Rs. 90 per day and if an employee is physicaly employed the amount payable will
be Rs. 100 per day.
Laundry allowance payable will be Rs. 240 per month.
Weekly attendance incentive payable will be Rs. 250 and 40% will be reduced for one day or half day absence.
Monthly attendance incentive payable will be Rs. 1250 for a 4 week month and Rs. 1350 for a  5 weeek month.
Night shift allowance payable will be Rs. 125 per night.
Special attendance incentive for day shift employees will be Rs. 350  per week and Rs. 50 will be reduced for one day or half day
absence.
Special attendance incentive for night shift employees will be Rs. 700 per week and Rs. 100 will be reduced for one day or half day
absence.
Night shift incentive monthly payment will be Rs. 200 p.m. and Rs. 100 will be reduced for one day or half day absence.
Special Night Shift incentive for 5 nights will be Rs. 330 per week.
Meal allowance payable will be Rs. 75 per day of which Rs. 65 is payable  to the canteen caterer.
The housing loan payable will be Rs. 60,000 subject to the same conditions as at now.
The Motor cycle loan payable will be Rs. 50,000 subject to the same conditions as at now.
The wedding gift  payable to a first daughter's marriage will be Rs. 8,000 and for the second daughter 25% of this amount.
i.e. Rs. 2000.
The financial assistance provided for entering a university will be Rs. 5,000.
During the duration of this collective agreement a sum of Rs. 15,000 will be allocated for purchase of books to the workmen's library.
In addition to the present gift of one month's wages provided to an employee for completion of 25 years of service one additional
annual increment will be given.
The other concessions, privileges and /or benefits available to the employees during the period of the current collective  agreement. 
Shift change increased to 4 per annum with one additional in case of emergency subject to consideration by the management.
The grace period for late coming per month will remain at 20 minutes and the first ten minutes will be allowed to be split into two
5 minutes duration but the second 10 minutes has to be taken as a whole.
The span of two hours short leave per month will remain as it is but permission will be granted for 1/2 an hour of the following
month's short leave to be taken in advance only once in 6 months, i.e. twice a year with the first occasion being for the period January/June
and the second occasion from July / December.
All distress laons are  payable subject to the availability of service gratuity, and the management reserves the right to amend the
conditions according to the merits of each case.
The medical reimbursement will be one month's wages per annum. The basic wage receivable as at January of  every  year will be
taken as the quantum of payment.

<!-- page 21 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
21A
Annual medical check ups will be carried out on company expense wherein tests for blood sugar and cholesterol also will be
performed.
Special Sickness Benefits provided as at now will remain the same.
Two exhaust fans will be installed to the workmen’s reading room.
Children of employees in the age range of 3-6 years to be provided with a school bag within a reasonable amount annually.
The company will contribute a carton of 2 1/2kg of biscuits towards the death of an  ‘‘A ’’ nominee.
The duty leave granted for attending a funeral of ‘‘A’’ nominee will remain at 32 hours but two office bearers will be permitted instead
of the present practice of one office bearer.
Telephone information facility provided increased to 4 times a year. i.e. 01 per quarrter.
Company payments for employees will be made the following day morning or during the next day night shift only.
A pair of canvass shoes as part of the uniform will be provided by the company during the months of  April and August.
Transport facility to the residence of employees who have met with accident while on duty will be considered on the merits of each
case.
General grading of all the workmen will be done in April of each year as per hitherto adhered process.
A umbrella will be provided as a gift at the time of signing te collective agreement.
04 – 91


<!-- page 22 -->

22A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
My No.: CI/1496
THE INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT, CHAPTER 131
The Collective Agreement entered into between the Shell Gas Lanka Limited, No. 498, R. A. De Mel Mawatha, Colombo 03 of the one part
and Inter Company Employees’ Union, No. 158/18, E. D. Dhabare Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 30th December 2009 is
hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised
Edition 1956)
W. J. L. U. W
IJAYAWEERA ,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
10th March, 2010.
Collective Agreement No. 25 of 2010
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN SHELL GAS LANKA LIMITED AND INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES UNION
(SHELL GAS LANKA LIMITED BRANCH)
This Agreement made this 30th day of December Two Thousand and Nine, between Shell Gas Lanka Limited, having its registered
office at 498, R. A. De Mel Mawatha, Colombo 03 (hereinafter referred to as “the Employer”) of the ONE PART and the Inter Company
Employees’ Union (ICEU), Shell Gas Lanka Limited Branch, a trade union duly registered under the provision of the Trade Union
Ordinance and having its registered office at 158/18, E. D. Dhabare Mawatha, Colombo 05 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”) of the
OTHER PART witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
1. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the First Day of December Two Thousand and
Nine and shall thereafter continue in force until the 31st Day of December Two Thousand and Twelve.
2. Terms and Conditions of the Agreement.– The Terms and Conditions of this Agreement are as per Annex I (attached).
3. Applicability.– All Terms and Conditions of employment as per Annex I (attached) shall apply to all permanent employees in
the non-executive cadre (not under Shell Terms and Conditions’) of “the Employer.”


<!-- page 23 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
23A
SALARIES AND BENEFITS OF SHELL GAS LANKA LIMITED (SGLL) EMPLOYEES
As per the Collective Agreement with the Inter Company Employees Union (Shell Gas Lanka Limited Branch) with effect from 01st
December 2009 to 31st December 2012.
BENEEIT/ALLOWNCE DESCRIPTION
1. Basic Salary (BS) All employees are given a Basic Salary (as per applicable Salary Scales).
2. Cost of Living (COL) The cost of living allowance will be paid as now, computed on the 2002
base year. (CCPI (N))
If however the Government passes legislation to require payment using new
values for the base year 2002 or according to any other computation,
the Company shall abide by this legislation if applicable.
3. Salary Revisions The salary revisions during the period will be as follows:
Year Amount
2009 1st Dec’ Rs. 2,250.00
2010 1st Jan - 2010 30th Nov’ Rs. 100.00
2010 1st Dec - 2011 30th Nov’ Rs. 2,000.00
2011 1st Dec - 2012 31st Dec’ Rs. 2,150.00
4. E.P.F. Salary Basic Salary + Cost of Living + Meal Allowance = E.P.F. Salary
The above monthly salary is taken for calculations of Overtime and contributions
to E.P.F.  and E.T.F. accounts
5. Overtime Overtime Hourly Rate = E.P.F. Salary x 0.0075
6. Employees Provident Fund Contribution 15 x (Basic Salary + Cost of Living  + Meal Allowance)
(15% of E.P.F. Salary) 100
The employer deposits the above monies in the E.P.F. accounts of all
employees. In addition, each employee contributes 10% of  their E.P.F. Salary
to individual E.P .F. accounts.
7. Employees Trust  Fund Contribution 03 x (Basic Salary + Cost of Living  + Meal Allowance)
(3% of E.P.F. Salary) 100
The employer deposits the above monies in the E.T.F. accounts of all
employees.
The employer deposits te above monies in the E.T.F. accounts of all employees.
8. Attendance Allowance The vale is increased to Rs. 2,500 from te current value of Rs. 600. Payment
under approved leave is increased from Rs. 150 to Rs. 625. Existing rules
will govern this payment.
9. Shift Allowance This is applicable only to Shift Workers such as Plant Operators (for all shifts
worked). Shift Allowance is paid as follows:
Shift Allowance
Day Shift Rs. 15.00
Evening Shift Rs. 30.00
Night Shift Rs. 45.00

<!-- page 24 -->

24A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
10. Meal Allowance
Location 2010 2011 2012
Head Office Rs. 60.00 Rs. 70.00 Rs. 80.00
Kerawalapitiya Rs. 30.00 Rs. 33.00 Rs. 36.00
Mabima Rs. 30.00 Rs. 33.00 Rs. 36.00
Meal allowance  for the month of December 2009 will be the same as for 2010'
The Meal allownce is paid only for days worked and may be deducted for late
attendance or Batta.
11. Travelling Allowance The Traveling Allowance is paid as follows  (for all days worked):
Location 2010 2011 2012
Head Office Rs. 55.00 Rs. 60.00 Rs. 70.00
Kerawalapitiya Rs. 55.00 Rs. 60.00 Rs. 70.00
Mabima Rs. 55.00 Rs. 60.00 Rs. 70.00
Travelling Allowance will be deducted if punctuality is not maintained or if
claiming Batta (Please refer to the Human Resources Policies and Procedures
Manual for further details).
12. Company Product Subsidy A subsidy of Rs. 1000.00 per month is paid to all employees for LPG usage at
Home.
13. Risk Allowance A Risk Allowance of Rs. 200.00 per occasion is paid to Cashiers and Acting
Cashiers for transporting cash.
14. Stock Taking  Allowance Employees participating in the annual Stock Taking exercise are provided a lunch
allowance of Rs. 50 per day as well as Stock Taking Allowance as follows:
Salary Scale Allowance
C (Labour Grade) Rs. 112.50
B (Clerical/Supervisory Grade) Rs. 187.50
If above tasks  are done on approved holidays, Overtime is also paid.
15. Subsistence for Official Travel (Batta) For official travel over 15 miles from the usual place of work, employees will
be given Subsistence and Lodging Allowances (Batta) of Rs. 350.00 per
day. Employees must also be away from their workplace for over 12
hours to qualify for the full allowance mentioned above. If the period of
stay is less than 12 hours but more than 6 hours, the applicable amount will
be half of the allowance (Please refer to the Human Resources Policies
and Procedures Manual for further details.)
16. Mid-Year Bonus A Mid-Year Bonus equal to one month's E.P.F. Salary of qualifying employees
is paid during the month of July every year.
17. Year End Bonus An Annual Year End Bonus is paid to each employee at the end of the year
(December). This replaces the present Annual Performance Based Bonus.
Year End Bonus Rs. 35,000.00
18. Special Productivity Bonus for Mabima A special productivity bonus upto Rs. 7,000 a month will be paid during the
Filling Plant  period 2010  to 2012 (both years included) to staff on the Mabima roster.
This bonus is linked to average overtime for the month and line speed per
shift. Computation of the bonus is given in Annex 2.
19. Personal Income Tax Personal Income Tax will be borne by the employee. The Company will pay as
a fixed allowance to individual employees the average 'Payee' tax borne by
Company in the first 11 months of year 2009 in each case.

<!-- page 25 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
25A
MEDICAL CLAIMS AND FACILITIES
20. Allowance for Treatment at Private Hospitals The Company will reimburse upto Rs. 50,000.00 if an employee or a registered
member of  his/her family is warded at  a private hospital. This allowance is
paid once in two years.
21. Allowance for Day-to-Day Medical Expenses An employee can claim upto Rs. 5,000.00 per annum for Day-to-Day Medical
Expenses. This allowance is available for employees and registered members
of his/her family. Any unutilised amount will be given to employees at the
end of the year.
22. Consultation Fees The Company will reimburse Specialist Consultation Fees upto Rs. 6,000.00
per annum for employees and registered members of their families (Specialist
Fees on being referred to by an approved Medical Practitioner).
23. Spectacle Allowance A Spectacle Allowance of Rs. 7,000.00 will be given to employees once in
every 3 years.
24. Optical and Dental Allowance Cost reimbursement of Rs. 4,500.00 per annum is available for employees and
registered members of their families for treatment of Eyes and Teeth.
25. Spectacle Lens Allowance Cost reimbursement of upto Rs. 3,500.00 per annum can be claimed by
employees for changing Spectacle Lenses once in two years. Valid only for
employees.
26. Allowance for Treatment at Government ( a) An allowance of Rs. 250/= per day upto Rs. 10,000 per annum can be
Hospitals  claimed by employees and registered members of their families for being
warded in a Non-paying Ward.
(b) While warded under (a) the cost of drugs and pharmaceuticals prescribed
by a government hospital for outside purchase may be claimed under the
allowance for treatment at Private Hospitals.
27. Allowance for Medical Tests Cost reimbursement of upto Rs. 6,000.00 per annum is available for employees
and registered members of their families for Deep Ray Therapy, X-Ray,
Radiology, Radium Treatment, Blood Tests, Pathology Tests, Physiotherapy
etc.
28. Medical Facilities The services of a qualified Doctor is available for limited hours on designated
days. Further, the Company has also obtained the services of a qualified
Nurse on a full-time basis.
PAYMENT OF GRATUITY
29. The Gratuity Act applies to all employees who have five or more years of
service. Gratuity will be calculated at the rate of one half of the final E.P.F.
Salary for every year of service.
30. Employees who are dismissed or whose services were terminated on disciplinary
grounds will be entitled to the full Gratuity.
LOAN SCHEMES
31. Housing Loan Up to 12 1/2 % of the interest will be paid by SGLL on Housing Loans obtained
by qualifying employees from approved donor agencies/banks up to a
maximum loan amount of Rs. 500,000/=.
32. Distress Loan A Distress Loan amounting to Rs. 200,000/= will be given to all permanent
employees (irrespective of their current salary grade) at an interest rate of
7.2% per annum payable over a period of 48 months in equal instalments.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
      33. Festival Loan A Festival Loan of Rs. 6,000 is available for employees to celebrate the Sinhala/
Hindu New Year, Christmas or a Muslim Festival. This loan is repayable in
10 equal monthly installments at an interest rate of 7.2% per annum.
34. Festival Advance The Rs. 1,500 Festival Advance is an interest-free loan, recovered in 10 monthly
instalments (for festivals approved by the State).
LEA VE SCHEMES
35. Leave Types 14 days Annual Leave, 07 days Casual Leave and 21 days Medical Leave may
be availed by all qualifying employees. Employees excluding Shift Workers
are also given 3 hours Short Leave per month.
However, all leave (except Medical Leave) must be taken with prior approval.
For employees who have worked 24 hours continuously, one day's Lieu Leave
is granted. Also, for employees (Clerical and allied) who have worked over 6
hours on a Saturday, a 1/2 day's Lieu Leave is granted. qualifying employees
who work on Sundays are entitled to one day's Lieu Leave.
36. 7 Days Annual Leave Of the 14 days Annual Leave, 7 days may be taken together provided the
employee gives prior notice of 21 days. An allowance of 25% of 7 days
E.P.F. Salary is given to employees who take this leave.
37. Unutilised Annual Leave Unutilised Annual Leave can be encashed at the rate of a day's wage for each
day.
38. Unutilised Medical Leave Unutilised Medical Leave can be encashed at the rate of one month's salary for
21 days and proportionate salary for days less than 21.
39. Maternity Leave Statutory entitlement is 84 working days for the birth of the first two children
and 42 working days for the birth of subsequent children. Also, the female
employee is granted a one-hour leave per day for breast-feeding until the
child reaches one year in age.
40. Short Leave Short Leave is granted three times a month (01 hour/per occasion) or twice a
month (1 1/2 hours/per occasion). Short Leave may be deducted for late
attendance of employees. Short Leave must be availed with prior notice.
41. Leave for Examinations Duty Leave will be granted to employees appearing for examinations related to
their fields of activity.
42. Grace Period A grace period of 15 minutes is granted to Clerical/Supervisory grades from
8.30 to 8.45 a.m. and for Minor Staff from 7.30 to 7.45 a.m.

<!-- page 27 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
27A
INSURANCE SCHEMES AND  COMPENSATION
43. Group Life Insurance Each employee will be insured for Rs. 250,000 under a Group Life Insurance
Policy. Defendants will receive Rs. 250,000 on the death of an employee.
44. Workmen's Compensation Act Workmen's Compensation Act applies
STAFF WELFARE AND  OTHER PAYMENTS/BENEFITS AW ARDS
45. Uniforms 03 sets of uniforms are given to each eligible employee annually along with
sewing charges of Rs. 2,500. Three pairs of socks and a pair of shoes are also
provided to eligible employees. Soap is also provided to qualifying staff.
46. First Day of the Year Payment Rs. 500 is paid to each employee on the first working day of the year together
with a token gift.
47. Long Service Awards The following awards will be granted to employees who have completed the
under-mentioned service periods:
Service Period Award
10 years of service … 2 weeks EPF salary
15 years of service … 3 weeks EPF salary
20 years of service … 5 weeks EPF salary
25 years of service … 7 weeks EPF salary
30 years of service … 8 weeks EPF salary
35 years of service … 9 weeks EPF salary
48. Training for Employees' Children For children of employees who have completed 15 years of service, a training
facility will be given for a period of 6 months together with a monthly
payment of Rs. 2,000 (only two children will be accommodated per year)
49. Umbrellas An umbrella per year is issued to qualifying Field Officers.
50. Canteen Facilities Facilities are given to Canteen contractors to provide food and meals at prices
less than the open market rates.
51. Funeral Expenses Upon the death of an employee, Rs. 10,000/= is paid for funeral
expenses.Transport will also be provided to fellow employees (from the
deceased  employee's work unit) to attend the funeral.
52. Trips and Excursions ("C" Grade Staff) For flor level employees, and annual trip will be provided with transport
facilities, food , lodging and a Rs. 500/= interest - free loan (Trip Loan ) to be
deducted in 5 monthly instalments, The dates of such trips should be mutually
agreeable in order to ensure continuity of the business.
53. Trips and Excursions  (Clerical and Allied Staff) A one-day excursion will be organised by the Company on an annual bassis.

<!-- page 28 -->

28A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
54. Transport Facilities For employees of Mabima a Transport Service is Provided from Kiribathgoda
and Kaduwella. For  employees of Kerawalapitiya Transport Service is provided
from the Terminal to Peliyagoda and the Maradana railway station.
55. Training Whenever possible, training programs will be conducted for  employees to
upgrade their knowledge and skills.
56. Upgrading and Promotions Upgrading and promotions of employees through job evaluations,  intermal
examinations and training and trade tests will be conducted on a continuous
basis.
The Company will conduct performance appraisal, This will form the basis for
any increments beyond the normal annual increment of one salary point.
57. The Union and employees hereby agree that they will not resort to any Trade Union action during the pendency of this agreement
on any of the matters covered  by this agreement. In respect of any matters not covered by this agreement parties agree to follow
the dispute settlement procedure set out in the check off agreement singed between parties on the 1st Sep 2009.
58. The Company also reserves the right to recruit anyone who meets its requirement. If an employee's child is found suitable, the
Company will employ such person(s) only if they have been found to be better or equal to another person who has applied for the
same position. The final say will lie with the Management.
59. The employees agree to the implementation of a suitable Roster (as deemed appropriate by the Company) for the filling Plant
operations.
Duty rosters will be prepared without idle time but shall have breaks at intervals as provided by law. Any changes to the Roster
will be communicated to the Union, Branch Union and employees with adequate notice. Further, roster changes will take into
account and avoid the conclusion of a roster between 2100-0600 hours, ensuring minimum inconvenience to staff.
60. The employees agree to abide by the Shell  business Principles.
61. The employees agree ot dthe implementation of a proper Dispute Settlement Procedure for Shell Gas Lanka Limited.
62. The employees agree to the Management of the Company implementing the Code of Conduct, Disciplinary Procedures, Shell
Group Drugs & Alcohol Policy and the Shell Group Health, Safety & Environmental (HSE) Policy, The employees also Undertake
to refrain from hampering any  action(s) taken by the Company to implement these policies and procedures.
63. The employees understand that only approved Ovetime  is paid and agree that they work Overtime only with prior approval of
the Management.
64. The Company reserves the right to implement a Medical Insurance Scheme for all employees at terms no less favourable to what
is currently being  enjoyed by employees.
65. For all intent and purposes the Provisions of this collective Agreement shall supersede the provisions of all other previous
Collective Agreements which applied to the categories of employees of Shell Gas Lanka Limited covered hereby and the terms set
out herein shall come into effect from 1st December 2009.
.

<!-- page 29 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2010’03’18
PART  III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.03.2010
29A
Entitlement to the bonus will to those employees who are attached to and worked on a particular shift.
Only cylinders meeting required quality level will be counted in calculating filling line production.
04 – 92
SPECIAL  PRODUCTIVITY  BONUS  FOR  MABIMA  FILLING  LINE  STAFF
1. Principles underlying the Special Productivity Bonus.– Consequent to large capital investment by the Company on carousels
and other machinery to  automate filling line opreations the capacity of  the Filling Plant has increased considerably. However due to the
adverse economic and market situation production on a  24 hour basis is no longer required at present. Therefore it is necessary that the
Company reduces the total time of plant operation to Match  Market Demand.
The Company has assessed that market demand in the next  few years can be met using shifts with average monthly overtime per
worker of  approximately 40 hours. The  company will transit towards this shift pattern in the next few months. However such change
would impact on the overtime earnings of the production line workers. In order to eliminate this impact and to reward workers for
improvements is productivity the Company introduces this monthly bonus to filling line staff.
2. Bonus computation.–
Average Overtime hours
per shift worker per
month (all shift workers)
40  or less
45
50
Any hours less than 60
hours per month
Filling line speed cylinders
per hour Bonus per shift Rs. Bonus for 22 shifts Rs.
Equal to or greater than
1020
Equal to or greater than 1020
Equal to or greater than 1020
Equal to or greater than 1020
273
205
136
Zero Zero
Bonus per shift will change
proportionately as above
60 or higher
proportionate
273* 22 = 6000
136* 22 = 3000
205* 22 = 4500
Average Overtime hours
per shift worker per
month (all shift workers)
40  or less
45
50
Any hours less than 60
hours per month
Filling line speed cylinders
per hour Bonus per shift Rs. Bonus for 22 shifts Rs.
Equal to or greater than 1080
Equal to or greater than 1080
Equal to or greater than 1080
Equal to or greater than 1080
318
239
159
Zero Zero
Bonus per shift will change
proportionately as above
60 or higher
proportionate as above
318* 22 = 7000
159* 22 = 3500
239* 22 = 5250
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA