

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1007
    Page
Post - Vacant … … …    ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"117 – 2019 ud¾;= ui 29 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'03'29
No. 2,117 –  FRiday ,  maRch 29, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th april, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th april, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1005-B 81508- 5,403 (03/2019)
N. B.–   Parts ii, iii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,116 of 22.03.2019 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1006
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1007
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTmENTAL   ExAmINATION   fOR   
PRELImINARy   GRADE mEDICAL   OffICERS   
AND   DENTAL   SuRGEONS – mARCh,  2019
it is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination 
should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade 
before promotion to Grade ii, By dental Surgeons before 
confirmation in the Service and by the Medical officers 
in administrative Grade or Specialist Grade who have 
not completed previously this departmental Examination 
during a period of two years from the date of appointment 
to such post as per Section 08 of the medical Service 
minute of Sri Lanka in the health Services published in the 
Gazette extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 11.10.2014, will be held on 
28.04.2019 in Sinhala, tamil and English medium. the 
venue and the time of the examination will be notified along 
with the admission card.
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary 
Grade who have not completed the relevant examination 
and Dental Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service 
can apply for this examination. Medical officer appointed 
to a post in the administrative Grade or Speicalist Grade 
previously without having completed this examination also 
can apply for the above Examination.
03. Applications.– applications that should be prepared 
by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of this 
circular must be handed over to the head of the institute on 
or before 22.03.2019. The applications that are certified as 
all the eligibilities have been fulfilled, should be forwarded 
to the director (Examinations), ministry of health, Nutrition 
and indigenous medicine, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385,                                                                                                                         
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, colombo 
10, on or before 30.03.2019 through their heads of 
institutions. the head of division should certify the 
accuracy of contents in each application. a self addressed 
envelope in the size of 9" x 4" inches, affixed with stamps 
to the value of Rs. 45.00 should be sent along with the 
application. (Candidates can write their official or private 
address). applications which are received late, incomplete 
or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an 
A4 paper based on the specimen form of the 
application so as to recommended from 01 to 04(e) 
on the first front page and from 04(f) to 09 on the 
second page. Applications which do not conform 
to above will be rejected any information. 
04. examination fees :
 (i)  Candidates who sit the examination for the first 
time need not pay examination fees. however, in 
every subsequent sitting they should affix stamps 
to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps 
cage provided for in the application and cancel 
same by placing their signature and the date.
 (ii)  the fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer 
for any other Examination or refunded under any 
circumstances.
05. Admission to the examination:
 (i)  candidates whose applications have been 
accepted will be issued with admission cards. 
they should duly complete and submit same 
to the Supervisor at the Examination centre. 
otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the 
examination.
 (ii)  candidates should prove their identity to the 
Supervisor at the examination hall. For this 
purpose one of the following documents will be 
accepted :
 (a)  National identity card ;
 (b)  a formal identity card issued by the ministry 
of health or a relevant institution ;
 (c)  Valid driving License ;
 (d)  Valid Passport.
 (iii) if you did not receive your admission card 
due to any unavoidable reason you can trace 
your examination centre and the index number 
through the web site ; if you were able to trace 
your examination centre and the index number 
as mentioned above you are permitted to be 
presented at the examination centre in the web 
site together with a letter attesting your signature 
by your immediate superior officer and sit the 
examination by establishment of your identity. 
the applicants who have received the admission 
card should certify their signature and should be 
bought. the applicants who have obtained the 
certification on their signature will not be entitled 
to face the examination. 
  (Web site : www.health.gov.lk).

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1008
06. Scheme of the examination.– the examination consists of four parts that is three written essay type question papers 
and a Sinhala/tamil oral test. Each part carries 100 marks. a minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each part to pass 
the examination and this examination could be completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the examination in 
several sittings. At the first attempt officer should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. Syllabus of the examination :
 7.1  Written examination :
 7.1.1  Establishments code Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions.  
  Syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the department of health Services in health ministry ;
 (ii)  orders and Regulations of the Public Service commission ;
 (iii) Establishments code :
 Part i - chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XV , XVi, XVii, XViii, XXiii, XXiV , XXV , XXVi, 
XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXi, XXXii
 Part ii - chapters XLVii and XLViii ;
 7.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Questions Paper :
  duration 1 1/2 hours. total marks 100. Should answers four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
  Syllabus :
  health manual :
 (i) administration of hospital and Public health, 
 (ii) management of Laboratory Services, 
 (iii) management of drugs.
 7.1.3  Accounts Questions Paper :
  duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 questions out of 07 questions.  
  Syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations of Stores accounts of the department of health Services ;
 (ii)  Sections of Finance in the manual of the department of health Services ;
 (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health -  
chapter i - F. R. 1, 2, 78.
chapter ii - F. R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
chapter iii - F. R. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 143, 
151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 189.
chapter V - F. R. 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260.
chapter Vi - F. R. 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393 394.
chapter Vii - F. R. 488, 493.
chapter Xiii - F. R. 715, 716, 756, 757, 758.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1009
Procurement Guideline : 
chapter 1 - all Sections
chapter 2 - Section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
chapter 3 - Section number - 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9.   
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure the 
proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium and 
the ability of the Tamil medium officers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that arise 
while discharging their normal duties is tested. duration 10 minutes. 
08. To follow the regulations related to examination Procedure.- candidates are warned against copying or 
attempting to copy from the script of another candidate or from any book or paper or notes whatsoever. No candidate should 
attempt to look at the script of another candidate and should not help any candidate either help another candidate or obtain 
help from another candidate or person. Further mobile phones and the similar electronic equipments should not be used. any 
candidate who disregards this rule is liable to punishment. 
09. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized 
compaign/institution. the information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
N.B.– In case of any inconsistency between the texts Sinhala, Tamil and English the text in Sinhala 
language shall prevail. 
 
Wasantha Perera,
 Secretary,
 ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine. 
ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine,  
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10,
18th march, 2019.
For Office Use Only   
Specimen form of Application             
dEPaRtmENtaL  EXamiNatioN  FoR  PRELimiNaRy  GRadE
MEDiCAl  OFFiCERS  AND  DENTAl  SURgEONS - MARCH, 2019
01. (a)  (i)  Full Name of the applicant (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Full Name of the applicant (in English capitals Block Letters) :
 (iii)  Name with initials (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (iv) Name with initials (in English Block Letters) :

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1010
   (b)  (i) designation (Please mark ( ) in relevant cage) :
   (i) Medical Officer   (ii) Dental Surgeon
 (ii)  date of internship appointment :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade ii :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (mark ‘’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. mark “X” against the 
subjects not offered) :
 admin. of hospitals and dispensaries Establishments code  accounts
 Sinhala Viva Voce t amil Viva Voce
03. medium you sit for the examination  (mark ‘ ’ in relevant cage)
 Sinhala :                     English :                       tamil : 
04.  (a)  (i) Present Station :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) this institution belongs to :  Line ministry
       Provincial council
 (b)   (i) if Provincial council mention Province :–––––––––––.
   (ii) district of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
 (c) mobile telephone No. :
 (d) National identity card No. :
 (e)  Please mark  “” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (if any or 
several examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due 
to absence of a sufficient number of candidates. in such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers 
would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the director General of 
health Services).
  colombo Kandana hambantota ampara
  Kaluthara Galle Badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna trincomalie
 (f)  Whether two self-addressed envelopes in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 45.00 has 
been attached to the application to post the admission card? :––––––––––.
 (g)  (i)  Postal address to post the admission card (in Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Postal address to post the admission card (in English) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
 (b)  if not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp cage

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1011
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
 (i)  i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge 
and, i need not affix stamps since, i sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of                  
Rs. ………… since, i repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and 
not used.
 (ii)  i agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the ministry of health, Nutrition to indigenous 
medicine for the conduct of this Examination and if, i was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the 
Examination, i agree with whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of the officer who handle the Personal File : 
i certify that this application was handed over to me before the closing date and particulars furnished by the applicant 
in this application are true and accurate according to the particulars in the personal file and a copy of this application is 
attached to the personal file. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and Signature.
date :–––––––––––.
08. Certification of Head of Institution :
 
i certify that mr./mrs./miss ……….................. serves as a ................................... in this institution, and the 
particulars furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her personal file, and                 
he/she sit the examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and he/she placed his/her signature 
in my presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of institution.
 (Rubber Stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss ………..................…… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* 
and the particulars furnished by him/her* in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/
her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
 Specialized campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
date :––––––––––––.
(* - delete words which are inapplicable)
03–1541

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1012
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
Selection of Teachers to follow Teacher 
Educational Courses conducted in Teachers' 
Training Colleges - 2019/2020
aPPLicatioNS are invited from non-graduate and 
untrained teachers, who fulfil the qualifications as per the 
circular No. 28/2016 issued by the mnistry of Education. 
teachers/teacher assistants, who have not yet completed 
the formal training should send their applications prepared 
as per the circular No. 28/2016 by registered post to reach, 
"director of Education, teacher Education administration 
Branch, ministry of Education, isurupaya, Battaramulla" 
before 27th of april 2019.
this circular, application and the instructions manual can 
be downloaded from the Official Web site of the Ministry of 
Education (www.moe.gov.lk) or can be obtained from any 
Zonal office of Education. 
 
Pathmasiri Jayamanna,
 Secretary, 
 ministry of Education. 
isurupaya, 
Battaramulla.
03–1519
––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of LAND
Sri Lanka Survey Department 
ExAMiNATiON FOR THE iSSUE OF SURvEyOR 
gENERAl'S  CERTiFiCATE  AS  AUTHORiZED 
DRAUgHTSMAN - 2019
thE examination for the issue of Surveyor General's 
certificate to practice as an authorized draughtsman will be 
held in colombo. the examination will be in two parts. 
Part i - Preparation of co-ordinate Sheets
Part ii - Plan Work.
2. Part i of the examination will be held on 20th July, 
2019 and Part ii on 19th and 20th october, 2019. candidates 
who fail Part i will not be allowed in sit Part ii. candidates 
should pass both Part i and Part ii at the same examination 
to qualify for the award of the Surveyor general's Certificate 
as authorized draughtsman. 
3. candidates are required to satisfy me that :-
 (a) They can prepare a co-ordinate sheet from field 
notes and co-ordinate a survey traverse ;
 (b) They can plot a plan acurately from field notes, 
both by protractor and from co-ordinates and 
computer extents correctly. 
4. Qualifications to appear for the examination : 
 (a) Have passed National Certificate of Education 
(N.c.E.) or G. c. E. (o/L) examination in six 
(06) subjects with two (02) credit passes ;
  and
 (b) have successfully completed a course related to 
draughtsmanship ; having duration of not less 
than one year, at a government technical college 
or other semi government institution. 
5. Examination Fees.– the examnation fee is Rs. 800. 
the receipt which is obtained by paying the examination 
fee to the cashier of the Surveyor general's office any of 
the District Survey Offices or to the institute of Surveying 
and Mapping, Diyatalawa should be pasted firmly at the 
place which has been reserved on the aplication for it                                                                                                                   
(a photocopy of the receipt should be kept for future 
use). and money orders or cheques will not be accepted. 
applications forwarded without the receipt will be rejected. 
Remittance by stamps and cheques will not be accepted. 
6. Preparation and Submission of applications. – an 
application prepared using both sides of a paper size 21cm 
x 29cm (a4) as per the specimen aplication appearing at the 
end of this notice should be sent through registered post to 
the following address. the envelope should be labeled as 
"Examination for the issue of Surveyor general's Certificate 
as authorized draughtsman - 2019" on the upper left corner 
of the envelope.
Senior Superintended of Surveys (Examinations),
Examination Branch, 
Surveyor general's Office, 
P. o. Box 506,
colombo 05.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1013
applications which have not been prepared according to 
the given specimen application, applications not properly 
filled and applications received after the closing date will 
be rejected. 
7. Examination fee will not be refunded under any 
circumstances. 
8. applications closing on 24th may 2019. applications 
will not be accepted after that. 
9. drawing papers and co-ordinate sheets will be supplied 
at the examination hall. however, candidates should bring 
their own drawing instruments, mathematical tables for 
computation of co-ordinates and all other material they 
require. Use of non-programmable scientific calculators 
will be allowed with the permission of the Supervisor at the 
examination hall. 
10. (i) Every candidate should prove his/her identity to 
the satisfactions of the Supervisor by the production of any 
one of the following documents :
 (a) an identity card issued by the commissioner 
of registration of persons,
 (b) a  valid passport,
 (c) Any certificate, license or other document which 
embodies a photograph of the holder and issued 
within three years of the date of examination on 
the authority of a Government department. 
(ii) No candidate for the examination shall be entitled 
to be examined unless he/she furnished proof of his/her 
identity required by paragraph 9(i).
11. this examination will be held under the metric 
system.
 P. m. P. 
Udayakantha, 
 Surveyor General. 
Surveyor general's Office, 
P. o. Box 506,
colombo 05,
05th march, 2019.
sPecimen aPPlication Form 
sri lanka sUrvey dePartment 
ExamInatIon For tHE ISSUE oF SUrvEyor 
GEnEral'S CErtIFICatE aS aUtHorIzED 
DraUGHtSman - 2019
 index No. : 
  (For office use)
 (a)   (i) Name with initials (in capital letters) :––––––––.
     mr./mrs./miss.
    (ii) Names denoted by initials (in capital letters) 
     :––––––––––––.
 (b) Sex :––––––––––––.
 (c) designation :––––––––––––.
 (d) Official address :––––––––––––.
 (e) Permanent address (in capital letters) :––––––––––––.
 (f) date of birth :––––––––––––.
 (g) Educational qualifications (Certified true copies should 
be attached) :––––––––––––.
 (h) medium through which the candidate proposed to sit 
this examination : Sinhala/tamil/English :––––––––––.
 (i) Office (Payment made) :––––––––––––.
 (j) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
  date :––––––––––––.
(attach the receipt here)
i do hereby certify that above details are true and correct. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
03–1520

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1014
mINISTRy Of JuSTICE AND PRISON 
REfORmS
Recruitment to the Post of Typist (Sinhala/Tamil) 
in the Law Report Translation unit 
(Sinhala/Tamil) - 2019
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitable citizens of Sri 
lanka to recruit qualified persons to 06 posts of Typists 
(Sinhala - 03 / tamil - 03) fallen vacant in the Law Report 
Translation Unit (Sinhala/Tamil) that is within the purview 
of the ministry of Justice and Prison Reforms. application 
forms prepared as per the specimen form appended at the 
end of this notice should be sent by registered post to reach 
the "Secretary, ministry of Justice and Prison Reforms, 
Superior courts complex, colombo 12" on or before the 
closing date of applications mentioned below. the words 
"Recruitment to the Post of typist, (Sinhala/tamil) in the 
law Reports Translation Unit " should be written on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application 
form.
closing date of application will be on 25.04.2019.
Note: No allegation that an application form or a 
document respecting such form has been 
lost or delayed in the post can be considered. 
applicants who delay their applications until 
the last day will do so at their own risk.
01. method of recruitment.– the number of recruitments 
and the date on which such recruitments will take effect 
will be decided by the Secretary to the ministry of Justice 
and Prison Reforms by the order of the Public Service 
commission.
02. Terms of engagement :-
 (i) this post is permanent.
 (ii) An officer recruited to this post is subject to a 
probationary period of three (03) years from the 
date on which such officer's appointment , takes 
effect, during which the officer is required to 
pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination.
 (iii) An officer recruited to this post should, in terms 
of the Public administration circular No.01/2014 
and the circulars issued incidental thereto, 
acquire the prescribed language proficiency 
within five (05) years of appointing to the post. 
The officer who enters the public service in a 
medium of language other than in a medium of 
any of the official languages will require to reach 
within the period of probation of three (03) years 
a requisite standard of proficiency in one official 
language and the standard proficiency of other 
official language within five (05) years.
 (iv) this appointment will be subject to the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission, 
Establishments code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations, 
other departmental orders.
03. the grade to be recruited - Grade iii.
04. Salary Scale.– in terms of the Public administration 
circular No.3/2016, this post which is under mN-1-2016 
carries a salary scale of Rs.27,140 - 10 x 300 - 11 x 350-10 
x 495 -10 x 660 = Rs.45,540/- per month and the initial 
salary step as at 01.01.2019 amounts to Rs.24,336/= as per 
grading system.
05. Qualifications :-
 (i)  Educational qualifications:
 (a) Should have passed six (06) subjects 
at the G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in not 
more than two sittings with at least 05 
subjects of such one sitting with 04 credit 
passes including medium of Language / 
Literature and mathematics.
 (b) Should have passed at least one (01) subject 
at the G.c.E.(a/L) Examination, (except for 
General common test)
 (ii) vocational Qualifications.– Should      have         possessed 
a credit pass for type Writing at the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination.
 (iii) experience.– Should have ability to type at a 
speed of 20 words of Sinhala / tamil per minute.
06. Age limit. – applicants should be not less than 18 
years of age and not more than 30 years of age as at the 
closing date of applications.
07. Physical Fitness.– Every applicant should be,
 (i) in good mental and physical order to serve in any 
part of the island.
 (ii) in good mental and physical order to discharge the 
duties and functions of the post.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1015
08. other Qualifications.– Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she,
 (i) is a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) is of excellent moral character.
 (iii) has fulfilled the necessary qualifications in every respect as at the closing date of applications referred to 
in this Notice/Gazette Notification calling for applications. (in proof of qualifications, copies of certificates 
should be attached to the application.)
09. method of recruitment :-
 09.1 Practical test.– marks will be awarded at a Practical test to be conducted by an institution to be nominated 
by the Secretary to the ministry of Justice and Prison Reforms.
  method under which marks are awarded at the Practical test
Subjects Maximum
marks
Pass Mark
type Writing (For a 20 minute duration, at a minimum speed of 
20 words per minute)
100 40%
 09.2 Structured Interview.– marks will be awarded by a Structured interview Board to be appointed by the 
Secretary to the ministry of Justice and Prison Reforms.
methods under which marks are awarded at the Structured interview.
Main areas for which marks are to be awarded Maximum Marks Pass Marks
1. Educational Qualifications 10
40%
2. English language Proficiency 10
3. computer Literacy 15
4. Experience 40
5. vocational qualifications 20
6. Personality 05
note- Applicants qualified at the Practical Test will be summoned at the Structured interview. Recruitments will be made 
on the basis of the order of merit secured both at the Practical test and as well as the Structured interview subject however 
to the number of available vacancies.
10. applications should be prepared on a a4 paper of 22 x 29 cm in size using both sides and items from 1 -12 
to appear on the first page, 13 -16 on the second page. it should be filled by the applicant's own legible handwriting. 
applications which are not in conformity with the specimen appended at the end of this notice or will be received after the 
closing date of acceptance of applications are liable to be rejected without notice. incomplete applications and applications 
of applicants who do not possess the prescribed minimum requirements will also be rejected. applicants should therefore 
see that application is perfect in all respect. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. it is advisable for applicants 
to retain a copy of the application in their safe custody.
Applications from officers who are in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Public Corporations are required 
to be forwarded through the respective heads of the departments.
11. Examination Fee.– Every applicant should deposit a sum of Rs.300/- as an examination fee to the credit of the 
account No.176100199025184 in favour of the Secretary to the ministry of Justice and Prison Reforms. the original of the 
receipt issued by the Bank in proof of the payment should be affixed in the space provided for the purpose in the application.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1016
12. Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, 
circulars that are now in force or may be issued from time 
to time in the future and the conditions pertaining to scheme 
of recruitment in the law Reports Translation Unit (Sinhala/
tamil) shall be applicable to this post.
 R. m. d. B. 
meegasmUlla, 
 Secretary,
 ministry of Justice and Prison Reforms.
07th march, 2019.
no. ....................................
(For office use only)
medium of Language 
Sinhala
tamil
(mark  in the appropriate box)
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN FoRm
ministry oF JUstice and Prison reForms
aPPlication For the Post oF tyPist, segment ii oF the 
management assistant non-technical category oF the 
laW rePort translation Unit (on oPen basis) - 2019
01. (a)  Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
  Name with initials (in English Block capitals)  :  
  –––––––––––. 
 (b)  Full Name (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
  Full Name (in English Block capitals) :––––––––.
02. Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
03. Permanent address (in English Block capitals) :–––––.
04. address to which letters should be dispatched (in 
English Block capitals) :––––––––––––.
 (complete only if permanent address may change)
05. t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
06. National identity card No. :
07. Sex :––––––––––––.
08. date of Birth :- 
 y ear :––––––––.  month :–––––––. date :–––––––.
09. age as at the closing date of applications :-
 y ears :––––––––.  months :–––––––. days :–––––––.
10. Race :––––––––––––.
11. marital Status :––––––––––––.
12. Results of the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination:- 
 y ear :––––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
13. Results of the G.c.E.(o/L):- 
 y ear :––––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
14. Qualifications as per Paragraph 05 of the Notice calling 
for applications :
 i. Educational Qualifications  :––––––––––––.
 ii. vocational Qualifications  :––––––––––––.
 iii. Experience  :––––––––––––.
15. language Proficiency (Mark  in the appropriate box) :
Very 
Good Good ordinary Weak
Sinhala
tamil
English

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1017
16. Affix the receipt in the space provided below in proof 
of the payment of examination fee.
Applicant's Declaration
i, ....................................................... declare that the 
particulars furnished by me in this application are true and 
correct. i certify that i have not been subject to any form of 
disciplinary action including dismissal from the service or 
retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful alternative 
to dismissal and i have not vacated the post previously.                         
i am also aware that, if any particulars contained herein are 
found to be false or incorrect, i am liable to disqualification, 
if detected before selection and to dismissal without 
compensation, if detected after appointment.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
03–1540
–––––––––––––––––––––––
the general duties of the post are to assist the management 
with pertinence to the  administrative , legislative  and finance 
and supply matters of Parliament and to accomplish any 
other duty assigned by the Secretary General of Parliament.   
03. Monthly salary scale.– as per Schedule 1 of 
the management Services circular No. 06/2016 dated 
07.11.2016, the salary scale attached to the post is                               
Rs. 34,605-9x660-3x755-Rs. 42,810/=. the salaries will be 
paid in compliance with the provisions of the said circular as 
indicated in Schedule ii thereto. 
(the minimum gross starting monthly salary applicable 
to this post inclusive of all additional allowances will be 
approximately Rs 63,000/-) 
04. Qualifications for recruitment :
 (a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Should not be less than 21 years and not more 
than 30 years of age as at the closing date of 
applications. accordingly, only those whose 
birthdays fall on or before 30 april 1998 or on 
or after 30 april 1989 can apply for this post. 
(The maximum age limit for the officers who 
have completed satisfactory service of period of 
10 years in the Public and the Provincial public 
management assistant Service and for the 
members of the Staff of the Secretary General of 
Parliament will be 40)
 (c) Should be of excellent moral character.
 (d) Should have completed the following educational 
qualifications.  
 (i) Should hold a degree awarded by a university 
recognized by the University grants 
commission or an institution recognized 
by the University grants Commission as a 
degree awarding institution
or
  Should possess a satisfactory service 
period of 10 years in the Public/Provincial 
management assistant service
and
 (ii) Should have passed 06 subjects at the 
G.c.E. (ordinary Level) Examination with 
a credit pass to Sinhalese or tamil,  English 
or English Literature and mathematics in 
not more than two sittings.
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR 
ThE RECRuITmENT TO ThE 
POST Of PARLIAmENTARy OffICER IN 
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA – 2019
01. it is hereby announced that the open competitive 
Examination for the Rrecruitment to the post of Parliamentary 
Officer in Parliament of Sri lanka will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in July, 2019 in 
colombo.
(a) the closing date for applications is 30 april, 2019
(b) this application can also be downloaded from the 
website www.parliament.lk 
02. Selection for the nine vacant posts will be made in the 
descending order from the candidate with the highest number 
of marks as per the aggregate marks of the written test 
conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
and the structured interview, 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1018
N.B.–  applications can be  also sent by members of the 
Staff of the Secretary General of  Parliament   who 
are confirmed in their posts with the Educational 
qualifications mentioned in 4 d (ii) . 
n.B.–   it is compulsory for each candidate to have 
completed the qualifications relevant to the post on 
or before 30 april, 2019. 
05. recruitment procedure.– through a written test and a 
structured interview.  
06. examination Procedure - 
 (a)  Written Test :
  this test comprises of two question papers to 
assess the proficiency in English language , 
translation skills , General Knowledge and 
iQ and both question papers will be in English 
medium. however, since the question paper on 
language competency contains a paragraph for 
translation, the candidates should make sure that 
they indicate in their application the medium in 
which they expect to sit the test.
Subject Marks Duration Minimum 
pass 
mark
Language 
proficiency 
and 
translation 
skills 
100 2 hours 50%
General 
knowledge  
and iQ
100 2 hours 50%
 (1)  language proficiency.– this question paper 
consists of questions on comprehension, an 
essay, summarizing paragraphs, translating 
a paragraph in Sinhala/t amil language 
into English language and a paragraph 
in English language into Sinhala/t amil 
language which are designed to test the 
English language proficiency of candidates. 
all questions have to be answered.  
 (2)  General knowledge. – this question paper 
consists of questions that test the knowledge 
of candidates on local and foreign trends 
and the general understanding on the   
constitution, independent commissions, 
duties of Parliament, delivery of Justice 
and Principles of Good governance. all 
questions have to be answered. 
(b)     Structured interview .– a Structured interview will 
be conducted by an interview panel appointed by 
the Secretary General of Parliament to assess 
the communication skills, additional educational 
qualifications, computer literacy, Extra - 
curricular activities and leadership qualities, 
personality and the competency of candidates in 
responding the interview, in accordance with the 
procedure stated below. the maximum number 
of marks that can be obtained by the candidates 
is 100.
Scope Maximum 
Marks
1 communication Skills 20
2 Additional Educational Qualifications 20
3 computer Literacy 20
4 Extra – curricular  activities and 
Leadership Qualities
20
5 Personality and competency at interview 20
total 100
Note.- Special attention should be paid to hand writing 
and orthography of all written answer scripts. 
07. Terms and Conditions of employment :– 
 (a)  this post is permanent. you are bound by the 
policy decisions taken by the government in 
future in respect of the pension scheme entitled 
to this post. the selected candidates will initially 
be appointed on probation for a period of three 
(03) years and if an officer holding a permanent 
and pensionable post in the Public Service or 
the Provincial Public Service is selected, his/
her appointment will be on an acting basis for a  
period of one year. 
 (b) the number of appointments and the effective 
dates of appointments shall be determined by the 
Secretary General of Parliament.  he shall have 
the discretion not to fill a certain number of  or all 
of the existing vacancies.
 (c) the applicants who will be selected for the Post 
of Parliamentary Officer will have to enhance 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1019
computer literacy within the first year of the 
probation/acting period and should acquire the 
capacity to draft an English letter consisting of 
not less than 250 words  and  a Sinhalese/ tamil 
letter consisting of not less than 150 words within 
a duration of 25 minutes using the microsoft 
Word Package.
 (d) the selected  applicants shall  abide by the 
Financial and departmental Regulations 
applicable to the staff of the Secretary General of 
Parliament.
 (e) the selected  applicants shall  contribute a 
certain percentage of his/her salary as decided 
by the government to the  Widows and orphans 
Pension  and the Widowers and orphans Pension  
Funds.
  
 (f) the selected  applicants shall  be subjected to a 
medical examination.
 (g) a  Security clearance report on the selected 
applicants shall be obtained prior to their 
appointments.
   
 (h) the applicants belonging to the Public, Provincial 
Public management assistant Service shall 
forward their applications through the respective 
heads of  departments/institutions.
08. Penalty for submission of false information.– the 
application shall be filled carefully with accurate information. 
the candidacy of any applicant shall be cancelled at the 
examination or prior or subsequent to the examination or at 
any moment if any applicant is found disqualified as per the 
rules and regulations of the examination.    
09. examination fees.– the examination fee is Rs.1200/=. 
This fee shall only be credited from any Post Office/ Sub 
Post Office/ District or Divisional Secratariat of the island to 
the Revenue head number 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. the receipt obtained in the name 
of the applicant shall be securely pasted on the space 
provided for that purpose on the application form so that 
only one margin sticks on the application. (a  copy of 
the receipt should be retained for future reference.) the 
examination fees are non-refundable and non-transferable. 
Further, money orders and stamps shall not be accepted.
10. Method of Application :
 (a) the application shall be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen attached to this notice and shall 
be prepared on both sides of two 8 1/2" x 12"(a4) 
size paper. the application shall be prepared in 
such a way that the first page, second page, third 
page and the fourth page of the application carry 
the heads numbered 01-03, 04-06, 07-09 and 
10 respectively. the name of the examination 
indicated on top of the application shall be written 
in English language in the Sinhalese and tamil 
language applications in addition to the original 
language.
  the applications that are inconsistent with the 
specimen, that are not duly filled and incomplete 
and the applications for which the examination 
fees have not been duly paid prior to the date 
specified, shall be rejected without any notice. 
the applicant shall bear any losses incurred 
due to any application that is not filled duly 
and accurately. Keeping a photocopy of the 
application shall be useful and the applicants 
shall ensure that the completed application is 
consistent with the application given in this 
Notification. The application shall be rejected in 
case of such inconsistency. 
 (b) all the applicants who have paid the examination 
fees and applied on or before the closing date, 
shall be allowed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations to sit for the competitive 
examination, on the assumption that only the 
applicants who are qualified and eligible as per 
the Gazette Notification have applied for the 
post. the issuance of an admission card to sit 
for the competitive examination shall not be an 
acknowledgement that the applicant has met 
the qualifications required for the post. The 
candidacy of the applicants shall be cancelled if 
disclosed disqualified at the interview, where the 
qualifications are scrutinized as per the Gazette 
Notification.
 (c)  “competitive Examination for the Recruitment 
for the Post of Parliament Officer of the Parliament 
of Sri Lanka – (2019)” shall be indicated on the 
upper left hand corner of the envelope.
 (d) The duly filled applications shall be sent through 
registered post to the following address on or 
before 30th  of april, 2019;

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1020
commissioner General of Examinations,
organization/ Establishments and Foreign Examinations 
Branch,
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Po Box 1503,
colombo.
11. Sitting for the examination :
 (a) Receipt of the application shall not be notified. 
a newspaper notice shall be published by the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, once 
the admissions are issued to the applicants. 
in case of non-receipt of the admission after a 
lapse of 2 or 3 days from the newspaper notice 
to the effect, it should be informed to the 
department of Examinations, as per the notice. 
the name of the examination, full name of the 
candidate, National identity card number and 
the address should be indicated at such inquiry. 
For the applicants residing out of colombo, it 
would be advantageous to make such inquiry 
by sending a fax to the fax number given in the 
advertisement, in the form of a request including 
the relevant details and a fax number to reach 
the applicant so that a copy of the admission 
can be sent through a fax. Further, retaining 
copies of the application, receipt of payment of 
examination fees, and the receipt for Registered 
Post, would be advantageous for the applicant to 
confirm any detail required by the Department of 
Examinations.
 (b) the applicants shall be required to get their 
signatures certified in the application and the 
admission card. This certification should attested 
by the respective heads of the departments or 
any other officer authorized by him in case of 
applicants who apply through an institution 
and by a Principal of a school/ Retired  officer, 
Grama Niladari of the division, Justice of 
Peace, commissioner of oaths, atorny-at-low, 
Notary Public, Commissioned officer of the 
armed forces, Permanent staff grade officer of 
the public service or provincial public service, 
a chief  incumbent of a Buddhist temple or a 
member of clergy  in charge of any other religious 
institution in case of applicants who do not apply 
through the institution. the applicant shall sit 
for the examination in the centre specified for 
the applicant and produce to the chief invigilator 
the admission card with attested signature at 
the examination centre at the first instance. The 
applicants who fail to produce the admission 
card shall not be allowed to sit the examination. 
 (c)  Examination results :
  the list of results will be prepared on merit based 
on the aggregate marks obtained at the written 
exam held according to paragraph 6 of this notice 
and at the structured interview. after submission 
of the results of the written examination 
to the Secretary General of Parliament, 
action will be taken by the department of 
Examinations to individually inform the results 
to all the applicants who sat for the written 
examination or to publish them in the website,                                                                
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
12.  one of the following documents should be submitted 
to the chief invigilator, for the purpose of verifying the 
identity of the applicants:
 (i)  National identity card,
 (ii)  a valid Passport,
 (iii)  a valid driver’s License.
13. candidates are subject to the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the examination and the issuance of results. in 
case of any violation of examination rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations, the 
candidate shall be liable to be penalized.
14. the Secretary General of Parliament shall decide 
on any matters  not mentioned in this notification. All the 
candidates are required to abide by the general rules and 
regulations of examination that have been indicated in this 
Gazette Notification.  
15. in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English versions of this Gazette Notification the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
                                                                                                
 W.B.d. 
dassanayake,
 Secretary General of the Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte 
29
th of march, 2019.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1021
Specimen Application form
     For Office Use Only
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN FoR thE 
RECRUiTMENT TO THE POST OF  PARliAMENTARy 
oFFicER – 2019
medium of examination applied:
  Sinhala - 2
  t amil  - 3
  English - 4
  (Write the relevant number in the box)
1.0 1.1  Full Name :–––––––––––.  
  (in Block capitals)
 1.2 Full Name :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala / tamil)
 1.3 National identity card No. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in Block capitals)   
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala / tamil)
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be  
  sent :–––––––––––.
  (in Block capitals)   
3.0 3.1 Gender    : male – 0    Female – 1
            (Write the relevant number in the box)
 3.2 contact Number :
 3.3 date of Birth :  
  y ear :  month : date :
 3.4 Age as at the date of fulfillment of Qualifications: 
  y ears : months :  days :
4.0  Educational Qualifications:
 4.1 g.C.E. (O/l) Qualifications :
 (i) y ear of Examination and month :––––––––––.
 (ii) index No. :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Results : 
Subject   Grade Subject    Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 4.2 g.C.E. (A/l) Qualifications:
 (i) year of Examination and month :–––––––––.
 (ii) index No. :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Results : 
Subject   Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
 4.3 details of t he degree :
   (i)  Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––.
   (ii)  University/ institute :–––––––––––.
   (iii)   Name of the degree :–––––––––––.
 
5.0  Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
6.0 have you ever been convicted by a court of law? (Put 
a tick () in the relevant box) (if yes, give details) :                   
–––––––––––.
                             yes   No   
7.0   details of the receipt of payment of examination fee:
  (i)  Paid office :–––––––––––.
  (ii)  Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
  (iii)  Paid amount :–––––––––––.
Stick the receipt here so that it will not be detached. 
(Keeping a copy of the receipt with you would be useful)
8.0    Certificate of the Applicant:
 (a) i solemnly declare that the details furnished by 
me in this application are true and accurate to the 
best of my knowledge. i agree to bear up the loss 
that would be caused to me in case any part of this 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1022
application has not been filled in and/or has been 
filled in inaccurately.  
  (b) i am aware that i will be disqualified for appointment 
if the declaration i have made is proved incorrect 
before appointment, or my employment will 
be terminated if it is proved incorrected after 
appointment. 
 (c) i further declare that i will be abide by the rules 
and regulations that will be imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in 
connection with conducting of the examination and 
issuance of results.
 (d) i will not later change any information that i have 
furnished in this application.   
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
9.0 attestation of the signature of applicant (Should be as in 
the Gazette Notification)
i certify that mr/mrs/miss ............................................. 
who submits this application is personally known to me and 
that he/ she placed his/ her signature in my presence on ........
......................., and that he/she has paid the due examination 
fees and has pasted the relevant receipt of such payment on 
this application form. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature.          
date :–––––––––––.                   
Full name of the attestor :–––––––––––.
 designation :–––––––––––.
 address  :–––––––––––.
 (Official stamp)
10.0 Certification of Head of Department / institution (Only 
for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service/Government corporations/Statutory 
Boards) 
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of mr / mrs 
/miss ............................... holding the post of ...................
.................................... in this institution. i certify that his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is 
no intention to make such inquiry. he/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.  
 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of department/institution.
 (Official Stamp) 
date :–––––––––––.
03–1550
––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of JuSTICE AND PRISON 
REfORmS
Department of Prisons
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN FoR thE 
RECRUiTMENT TO THE POST OF JAilOR – ClASS ii 
aNd REhaBiLitatioN  oFFicER - cLaSS ii - 2019
aPPLicatioNS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri 
Lanka to recruit for the posts of Jailor – class ii (Female/
Male) and Rehabilitation Officer - class ii (Female/Male) 
fallen vacant in the department of Prisons.
01. Recruitment by way of this examination is to be 
made for the posts of Jailor – class ii (Female/male) and 
Rehabilitation Officer - Class ii (Female/Male) in the 
department of Prisons,  Sri Lanka.
02. Written examination.– this examination consists of 
three question papers as mentioned below :
 i. General intelligence  
 ii. General Knowledge
 iii. mathematics
02. Date of examination and conducting of the 
examination.– this examination will be held on June, 2019 
in the main towns throughout the island as indicated in the 
Schedule i of this notice. the town and its number in respect 
of which the candidate wishes to sit the examination among 
the towns set out in the Schedule should be clearly indicated.  
No candidate will be permitted to change later the town 
originally indicated in the application. however, in case of 
there will not be sufficient number of candidates applied 
for a particular town and pursuant to which an examination 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1023
centre will not be established therein, such number of 
candidates will be directed to an examination centre to be 
established in a town in which the candidate mentioned in 
the application as the second preference or an examination 
centre to be established in any other nearby town. Further, 
there will not be sufficient number of candidate to establish 
examination centers in all or majority of such towns 
proposed in the Schedule i of this notice, the commissioner 
General of Examinations may make necessary arrangements 
to conduct the examination only in colombo.
schedUle -1
 
towns and Numbers 
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
matara 08
hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
mullaitivu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Batticaloa 15
ampara 16
trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
monaragala 23
Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
03. The total number of appointment to be filled is 97. 
[i.e. Jailor class ii (male) 69, Jailor class ii (Female) 10, 
Rehabilitation Officer Class ii (Male) 15, Rehabilitation 
Officer Class ii (Female) 03,] When the last vacancy or a 
few of vacancies as the case may be are to be filled, there 
may be instance where the number of candidates have 
obtained equal marks and such number or numbers exceeds 
the number of vacancies available to be filled, such last 
vacancy or a few of vacancies as the case may be will have 
to be filled based on the decision to be taken by the order of 
Public Service commission in compliance with Section 80 
of its Procedural Rules.  the date on which the appointments 
will take effect will be decided by the commissioner General 
of Prisons.
04. Conditions of employment :-
 4.1 a candidate will be appointed to the post of 
Jailor Class ii and Rehabilitation Officer Class 
ii subject to the general conditions governing 
the appointments in the Public Service, 
provisions laid down in the Establishments 
code and Financial Regulations and the 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission published in the Gazette Extra 
ordinary No.1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
 4.2 this post is permanent. it is pensionable. you 
shall be subject to the policy decision to be 
taken by the Government in future regarding 
the pension scheme entitled to you. Further, 
you are liable to contribute to the Widows' 
and orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers' 
and orphans' Pension Scheme.  you are  
required topay contribution in such rate as 
may be determined from time to time by the 
Government.
 4.3 this appointment to the Jailor class ii / 
Rehabilitation Officer Class ii is subject to a 
probationary period of three years. the First 
Efficiency Bar Examination should have 
to be passed within 03 years from the date 
of appointment to the post and the Second 
Efficiency Bar Examination should have to 
be passed within 07 years from the date of 
appointment to the post.
 4.4 in terms of the Public administration circular 
No.01/2014 and circulars issued incidental 
thereto, prescribed official language proficiency 
should have to be reached.
 4.5 the commissioner General of Prisons reserves 
the power to cancel any appointment of a 
selected appointee in such instances where 
failure by any such appointee to assume duties 
in his/her post on the scheduled date and/
or denial by any such appointee to assume 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1024
duties  in his/her post at the workstation which 
such appointee will be directed in the letter of 
appointment to assume duties. the selected 
appointees to the post of the Jailor class ii / 
Rehabilitation Officer Class ii should agree 
to engage in the duties during the initial 05 
years from the date of their appointment, 
accommodating in the bachelor’s quarters of 
the prisons even far away from the area of their 
permanent residence.
05. monthly salary scale.– in terms of Public 
administration circular No.03/2016, salary range RS-
3/2016.(Step 1)  is applicable to this post. accordingly, this 
post carries the salary scale as follows:- Rs.32,790/- 7 x 370 
– 2 x 495 – 25x600- Rs. 52,870/- (per month)
(in terms of the provisions of the Public administration 
circular No.03/2016 dated   25.02.2016, in  that Schedule ii 
thereof,  salaries will be paid based on the initial salary step 
corresponding to Rs.32,790/-.)
06. Terms of engagement :-
 (a) Every candidate must furnish a clear proof to the 
effect that  he/she
 (i) should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) should have a exemplary character.
 (iii) should be physically and mentally sound to 
serve in any part of the island.
 (iv)  should have minimum height of 5 feet 4 
inches. 
 (v)  should have a chest measurement of 32 
inches deflated. (This does not apply in case 
of female candidates)
 (vi) conviction by any court of law for any 
offence committed pertaining to immoral 
character is a total disqualification for the 
appointment to the  above  post.
 (b) Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed 
the G.c.E.(advanced Level) Examination in all 
subjects(excluding General common test and 
General English) in one sitting and in case of 
old Syllabus, at least 03 subjects should have to 
be passed.
  and
  Should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination at least 06 subjects in not more than 
two sittings with four credit passes including 
credit passes for Sinhala/t amil and arithmetic/ 
mathematics/commerce arithmetic. (Should 
have passed not less than 05 subjects in one 
sitting).
  or
  Should have passed the N.G.E.c. Examination 
at least 06 subjects in not more than two sittings 
with four B passes including B passes for First 
Language and mathematics. (Should have 
passed not less than 05 subjects in one sitting)
  or
  Should   have  passed  the  G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination with at least 06 subjects in 
not more than two sittings with four credit 
passes including credit passes for Language, 
mathematics. (Should have passed not less than 
05 subject in one sitting)
 (c) other Qualifications. – having obtained a 
diploma on V ocational Social Work at  the Sri 
Lanka Social development institute will be an 
added qualification in case of the  recruitment to 
the post Rehabilitation Officer - Class ii.
 (d)  Age :-
 • Should not less than 18 years and not more 
than 45 years of age in case of the  recruitment 
to the post of Jailor  - class ii.  accordingly, 
candidates whose birthdays  fall on or before 
22/04/2001 and on or after 22/04/1974 are 
only eligible to apply. (maximum age limit 
shall not apply for those  who are already 
serving in the public or provincial public 
service.)
 • Should not less than 24 years and not more 
than 45 years of age in case of the  recruitment 
to the post of Rehabilitation Officer  - 
class ii.  (accordingly, candidates whose 
birthdays  fall on or before 22/04/1995 and 
on or after 22/04/1974 are only eligible to 
apply.) (maximum age limit shall not apply 
for those  who are already serving in the 
public or provincial public service.)
 (e)  Fulfillment on requirements.– Every candidate 
should fulfill all qualifications required to apply 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1025
for this examination on or before the closing 
date of applications in all respects.
07. Examination Fee.– the examination fee is Rs. 600/- 
which may be paid by the applicant in his/her own name 
in cash at any Post Office/Sub -Post Office or District/
divisional Secretariat throughout the island to the credited 
of the public revenue under the Revenue head 20 – 03 – 02 
– 13 in favor of the commissioner General of Examinations 
before the closing date of applications and the receipt 
issued in proof of the payment should be affixed in the 
relevant cage of the application form so that only one edge 
thereof is firmly pasted into the space provided. Under no 
circumstances will the examination fee refunded to you or 
transferred to other examination. it is advisable if a photo 
copy of the receipt should be kept preserved.
08. Application Procedure :-
 8.1 the application prepared and completed by the 
candidate in his/her own  legible hand writing 
in 8.27"X 11.69" sheet of paper (a4) in size 
using both sides should be in conformity with 
the specimen application appended at the end 
of this notification. The application may be 
typed either using computer or type-writer. item 
No.01 - 05 should appear on the first page while 
item No. 06-11  on the second page and the 
remaining items on the third page.  applications 
which are in not conformity with the specimen 
application form and are incomplete will  be 
rejected without serving a notice.(it is advisable 
if a photo copy of the application is retained in 
your safe custody)  Further, the candidate should 
check as to whether the completed application 
form is in accordance with the specimen 
application appended at the end of this notice.  
deviation from such requirement may render 
the application rejected.  
 8.2 applications should be prepared and completed 
in such mediu m of language in which the 
candidate intends sitting the examination.
 8.3 completed applications should be sent under 
registered cover to reach the "commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations 
(Establishment and Foreign Exams) Branch, 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, 
P.o.Box 1503, colombo" on or before 
22/04/2019.  the words "open competitive 
Examination for the recruitment to the posts of 
Jailor Class ii / Rehabilitation Officer Class ii 
- (2019)" should clearly be written  on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
application. When preparing the application, 
the name of the examination indicated in 
the caption of the application prepared and 
completed in Sinhala Language should also be 
written in English Language while the name of 
the examination indicated in the  caption of the 
application prepared and completed in tamil 
Language should also be written in English 
Language. in case of the candidate wishes to 
apply two (02) posts, it may be done in the same 
application.
 8.4 the commissioner General of Examination will 
issue admission cards to all those candidates 
who have submitted their applications in 
accordance with the specimen form on or 
before the closing date to sit for the competitive 
examination upon payment of the prescribed 
examination fee provided however on the 
presumption that all those candidates have 
possessed the basic qualifications specified in 
Gazette Notification. Receipt of an Admission 
card to sit the competitive examination shall not 
be treated as being the candidate has fulfilled the 
qualifications for this post.  The qualifications 
required to this post in accordance with this 
notice are found to be false  at the time of 
interview candidature is liable to be cancelled.
 8.5 the signature of the candidate placed in the 
application should be attested by a Principal 
of a Government School, Justice of the Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-Law, 
Notary Public, commissioned officer in the 
Armed Forces, an officer holding a Gazetted 
post in the police service or a staff officer 
holding a permanent post in Government and  
in case of the signature of the candidate from 
the Public/Provincial Public Service, the head 
of the institution to which such candidate 
attached. Officers already serving in the Public 
Service should submit their applications to 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
through respective heads of department before 
the closing date of applications.  in such case, 
the respective head of the department should 
certify indicating that such an  officer could be 
released from the current position, if he/she will 
be selected to this post.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1026
 8.6 an application in respect of which the 
examination fee has not been paid before the 
due date and any such application which is 
incomplete will be rejected without serving any 
notice for rejection.  any risk resulting from not 
duly completing any application in all respects 
hall be borne by the relevant candidate himself. 
any complaints that an application gets lost or 
delayed in the post will not be accepted under 
any circumstances.
 8.7 Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.  
immediately upon the admission cards will 
be issued to the candidates, a notice into 
that respect will be published in the national 
press and the web site of the department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka.  any candidate 
who will be not in receipt of admission card 
even 2 or 3 days will elapse from the date of 
such publication of the notice, should inquire 
forthwith to the department of Examinations 
informing non receipt as per directions given 
in the notice.  Such inquiry should contain 
your full name, address, National identity 
card Number and the name of the examination 
applied. in case of the candidate is not  resident 
in colombo, such inquiry incorporating above 
particulars in writing may be sent by fax given 
in the notice to the department of Examinations 
further indicating a return fax number so that 
respective candidate's admission card may 
directly be sent to it. as a matter of supporting 
of such candidate's inquiry in such instance, it 
will be very useful for such candidate to retain 
photocopies of the application, receipt in proof 
of   payment of examination fee and registered 
postal article receipt.
09. Admission to the examination :-
 (a) Every candidate should sit the examination 
only in the examination hall allotted to such 
candidate. Every candidate should get his/her 
signature which appears in the admission card 
duly attested and surrender same to the head of 
the Examination hall on the date on which he/
she sits the examination. Under no circumstance 
should any candidate be permitted to sit the 
examination without submitting a duly attested 
admission card.  Rules and regulations bound to 
be abided by every candidate at the Examination 
hall are published in the beginning of this 
Gazette Notification. Every candidate is liable to 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations 
from the commencement of  examination to the  
issuance of results. any breach by any candidate 
of such rules and regulations may render such 
candidate to be subject to any punishment to 
be imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
10. Identity of Candidates.– Every candidate is required 
to establish his/her identity to the satisfaction of head of the 
Examination hall in every subject. For the establishment of 
the identity, any one of the following documents is required 
to be produced to the head of the Examination hall.
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid driving License
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– in 
filling the application, utmost care should be exercised to 
incorporate accurate information. if any candidate is found 
to be disqualified in terms of the rules and regulations of 
this examination, his candidature may be cancelled at any 
time even before the examination or at the time where the 
examination is in progress or after the conclusion of the 
examination. if it is found that a candidate has furnished any 
information with knowledge that they are false or if he/she 
has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she is liable to 
be dismissed from the service.  
12. method of examination and medium of language:-
(a) this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English medium of languages.
(b) No candidate will be permitted to change the 
medium of language at a later stage.
13. Scheme of recruitment :-
Written examination. – the written examination 
will consists of 03 question papers designing to 
test the knowledge of the subjects mentioned 
in the paragraph 02 of this notice. to pass the 
examination, at least 40% marks of for each subject 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1027
required to be obtained.  candidates are required to 
answer all question papers.
Subjects :-  1. General intelligence
  2. General knowledge
  3. mathematics
Structured  Interview :-
 (i) Structural interview will be conducted to ascertain 
as to whether the candidates have possessed the 
qualifications specified in  paragraph 06 of this 
notice and are in compliance with the fulfillment 
on requirements.
 (ii) candidates who have secured highest marks 
having averaged not less than  40% marks for 
each subject will be summoned at the Structured  
interview based on the order of merit to be 
prepared in an alphabetical order, the number of 
such candidates so summoned will be five times 
the number of existing vacancies.  date of this 
interview will be determined by the commissioner 
General of Prison. 
N.B.– attending at the interviews is not treated to be  a 
qualification for awarding appointments.
14. The syllabus of the written examination :-
(a) General Intelligence.– duration allowed is 01 
hour.  Full  marks to be awarded is 100.  this 
paper is designed to include multiple choice 
questions to assess the candidate’s ability 
in logical thinking, analytical reasoning and 
ability in determining.  this paper consists of 
50 multiple choice and short answer questions.  
candidates are required to answer all questions.
(b) General Knowledge.– duration allowed is 01 
hour.  Full marks awarded is 100.  this paper 
is a common general paper designed to include 
questions to assess the candidate’s ability on 
information technology, current important 
matters relating to the political, social, cultural 
and economic environment of Sri Lanka 
including nationally and internationally 
important and contemporary facts and 
scientific and industrial  development.  This 
paper consist of 50 multiple choice and short 
answer questions. candidates are required to 
answer all questions.
(c) Mathematics.- duration allowed is 01 hour.  
Full marks awarded is 100.
• Part i- This question paper is designed to 
assess the candidate’s ability in respect 
of addition and is required to answer all 
questions  in the paper itself.  
• Part ii- This question paper consist of six 
compulsory questions and is designed to 
assess the candidate’s mathematical ability.
15. the appointing authority reserves the right either not 
to fill any certain number of vacancies or all of the vacancies.
16. any matter not provided for herein will be determined 
by the commissioner General of Prisons.  all candidates are 
bound to be obliged to act in compliance with the general 
rules and regulations indicated in this Gazette Notification.
17. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, the tamil and the English texts of this notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 t. m. J. W. 
thennakoon,
 commissioner General of Prisons.
Prison headquarters,
No.150, Baseline Road,
colombo 09.
on 25th march, 2019.
 (For office use only)
sPecimen aPPlication
oPen comPetitive examination For the recrUitment to the 
Post oF Jailor – class ii and rehabilitation 
oFFicer - class ii - 2019
Town town no.
1st preference
2nd preference
(according to paragraph 02 of the  Gazette Notification,  
please indicate the town which you intend  sit the examination 
and corresponding town number)

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1028
Post applied for 
Jailor – class ii                              - 1
Rehabilitation Officer - Class ii   - 2
For both posts                               - 3
(Write  appropriate number in the box)
medium of language at the Examination     
Sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write  appropriate number in the box)
(this option is not allowed to change later)
01.   (a) Name with initials(initials be written after the names) :––––––––––.
    (in English block capitals) (ex: gUNAWARDHANA, M.g.B.S.K.)
   (b) Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
   (c) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
02.   (a) Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.  
   (b) Permanent address (in English  block capitals ) (admission card will be sent to this address) :––––––––––.
03. Sex : 
    Female  - 1 
    male  - 0  (indicate the appropriate number in the box)
04. National identity card No. :-
05. telephone No. : mobile
      Fixed
06. marital Status:-
    Unmarried   -   1   (indicate the appropriate number in the box)
    married       -   2
07. date of Birth:        year  : month : date :
08. age as at the closing date of application (22/04/2019) : y ears : months : days :
09. citizenship (by descent / by registration) :––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
 G.c.E. (o/L) G.c.E. (o/L)
   (i) year of the Examination :––––––––––.  (i) year of the Examination :––––––––––.
   (ii) index No. :––––––––––.  (ii) index Number :––––––––––.
   (iii) Examination results :-  (iii) Examination results:-
Subject Grade Subject Grade

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1029
10. Educational Qualifications :
 G.c.E. (a/L)     
   (i) year of the Examination:- …….  
   (ii) index No:- ………………
   (iii) Examination results:
Subject Grade
11. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
12. if  you have been convicted by a court of law for any 
offence, please indicate all information about such 
conviction :––––––––––.
13. Payment of examination fee :
 (i) amount paid :––––––––––.
 (ii) Office at which the examination fee was paid : 
––––––––––.
 (iii) date of payment :––––––––––.
 (iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here so as to paste by an edge thereof. 
(it would be advisable to keep a photo copy of the receipt)
14. Certificate of the candidate:
i  do hereby declare that  the particulars mentioned in this 
application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge 
and belief and that the receipt containing No……….. dated 
…………in proof of the payment of examination fee is 
affixed herewith.  i agree  that i am bound to abide by the 
rules and regulations applicable to this examination and that 
the decision to be taken to cancel my candidature at any time 
before the examination or at the time the examination is in 
progress  or after the conclusion of the examination if  it has 
been established that i am disqualified for the examination 
according to the criteria of this examination.  i do further 
hereby declare that i am liable to be obliged to the rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations pertaining to conducting of  this examination 
and issuance of results.   
       ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––.
15. attestation of the applicant’s signature:- (shall be as per 
9.4 of the Gazette Notification) :
i do hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss …………………… 
who submits this application is personally known to me 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on 
…………. and further that he/she has paid the prescribed 
examination fee and has affixed the receipt in the space 
provided in this application.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 (Signature of the Officer attesting the  
 signature)
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––.
(Please place the official stamp)
16. Certificate of the Head of the Department (This 
certificate is applicable only for the applicants already 
serving in the Public Service)
i do hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss. ……………… 
who is submitting this application is serving in this 
department/institution and that his/her work and conduct is 
satisfactory and that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications 
necessary for applying for this post as per this notice and 
that he/she could be released /could not be released from 
his/her present post if he/she will be selected for this post.
      
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the 
 department/institution.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––.
(Please place the official stamp)
03–1555/2

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1030
mINISTRy Of JuSTICE AND PRISON 
REfORmS
Department of Prisons
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN FoR 
THE RECRUiTMENT TO THE POST OF PRiSON 
gUARD – 2019
aPPLicatioNS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri 
Lanka for the posts of Prison Guard (Female/male) fallen 
vacant in the department of Prisons.
01. Recruitment by way of  this examination is to be 
made for the post of Prison Guard in the police and other 
regulatory service categories of the department of Prisons, 
Sri Lanka.
02. Written examination.– this examination consists of 
two question papers as mentioned below.
 i. General intelligence
 ii. General Knowledge
N.B.:- Candidates who will pass the written 
examination have to appear for the physical 
fitness test and an interview to be conducted for 
evaluation of eligibility as specified in subsection 
(1), (2) and (3) of Section 13 of this notice.  It is 
therefore expected that only those who possess the 
qualifications indicated in the said sections will 
send in applications.
02. Date of examination and conducting of the 
examination.– this examination will be held on June, 2019 
in the main towns throughout the island as indicated in the 
Schedule i of this notice. the town and its number in respect 
of which the candidate wishes to sit the examination  among 
the towns set out in the Schedule should be clearly indicated.  
No candidate will be permitted to change later the town 
originally indicated in the application. however, in case 
of there will not be sufficient number of candidate applied 
for a particular town and pursuant to which an examination 
centre will not be established therein, such number of 
candidates will be directed to an examination centre to be 
established in a town in which the candidate mentioned in 
the application as the second preference or an examination 
centre to be established in any other nearby town.  Further, 
there will not be sufficient number of candidate to establish 
examination centre all or majority of such towns proposed in 
the Schedule i of this notice, the commissioner General of 
Examinations may make necessary arrangements to conduct 
the examination only in colombo.
schedUle -1
 
towns and Numbers 
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
matara 08
hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
mullaitivu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Batticaloa 15
ampara 16
trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
monaragala 23
Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
03. The total number of appointment to be filled is 1178 
[i.e. Prison guard (Male) 1068, Prison guard (Female) 110] 
When the last vacancy or a few of vacancies as the case may 
be are to be filled,  there may be instance where the number 
of candidates have obtained equal marks and such number 
or numbers exceeds the number of vacancies available, 
such last vacancy or a few of vacancies as the case may 
be will have to be filled based on the decision to be taken 
by the order of Public Service commission in compliance 
with Section 80 of its Procedural Rules.  the date on which 
the appointments will take effect will be decided by the 
commissioner General of Prisons.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1031
04. Conditions of employment :-
 4.1 a candidate will be appointed to the post 
of Prison Guard subject to the general 
conditions governing the appointments in the 
Public Service, provisions laid down in the 
Establishments code and Financial Regulations 
and the Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission published in the Gazette Extra 
ordinary No.1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
 4.2 this post is permanent. it is pensionable. you 
shall be subject to the policy decision to be 
taken by the Government in future regarding the 
pension scheme entitled to you. Further, you are 
liable to contribute to the Widows' and orphans' 
Pension Scheme/Widowers' and orphans' 
Pension Scheme.  you are  required to pay 
contribution in such rate as may be determined 
from time to time by the Government.
 4.3 this appointment is subject to a probationary 
period of three years. The First Efficiency Bar 
Examination should have to be passed within 03 
years from the date of appointment to the post of 
Prison Guard.
 4.4 in terms of the Public administration circular 
No.01/2014 and circulars issued incidental 
thereto, prescribed official language proficiency 
should have to be reached.
 4.5 the commissioner General of Prisons reserves 
the power to cancel any appointment of a selected 
appointee in such instances where failure by 
any such appointee to assume duties  in his/
her post on the scheduled date and/or denial by 
any such appointee to assume duties  in his/her 
post at the workstation which such appointee 
will be directed in the letter of appointment to 
assume duties. the selected appointees to the 
post of Prison Guard should agree to engage in 
the duties during the initial 05 years from the 
date of their appointment, accommodating in the 
bachelor’s quarters of the prisons far away from 
the area of their permanent residence.
05. Monthly salary scale.– in terms of Public 
administration circular No.03/2016, salary range RS -1-
2016. (Step 1) is applicable to this post. 
accordingly, this post carries the salary scale as follows:-
Rs.29,540 - 7 x 300 – 27 x 370 – Rs. 41,630 (per month)
(in terms of the provisions of the Public administration 
circular No.03/2016 dated   25.02.2016, in  that Schedule ii 
thereof,  salaries will be paid based on the initial salary step 
corresponding to Rs.29,540/-.)
06. Terms of engagement :-
 (a) Every candidate must furnish a clear proof that 
he/she
 (i) should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) should have a exemplary character and 
physically sound.  this is to be proved by a 
Police Clearance Certificate.
 (iii) conviction by any court of law for any 
offence committed pertaining to immoral 
character is a total disqualification for the 
appointment to the  above post.
 (iv) Should have minimum height of 5 feet 4 
inches. (in case of male candidates)
 (v)  Should have minimum height of 5 feet 2 
inches. (in case of female candidates)
 (vi)  Should have a chest measurement of 32 
inches deflated. (This does not apply in case 
of female candidates)
 (vii) Should be unmarried. (divorced persons 
and widows are deemed to be as married 
persons.)
 (b) Educational Qualifications.– Every candidate 
should pass G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in not more 
than two sittings in six (06) subjects including 
Sinhala/ tamil/ English and mathematics with 
credit passes for any two (2) subjects.
 (c) Age.– Should not less than 18 years and not more 
than 33 years of age. accordingly, candidates 
whose birthdays  fall on or before 22.04.2001 and 
on or after 22.04.1986 are only eligible to apply.
  
 (d) Fulfillment on requirements.– Every candidate 
should fulfill all qualifications required to apply 
for this examination on or before the closing date 
of applications in all respects.
07. Examination Fee.– the examination fee is                             
Rs. 600 which may be paid by the applicant in his/her 

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1032
own name in cash at any Post Office/Sub - Post Office or 
district/divisional Secretariat throughout the island to the 
credited of the public revenue under the Revenue head                                    
20 – 03 – 02 – 13 in favour of the commissioner General 
of Examinations before the closing date of applications and 
the receipt issued in proof of the payment should be affixed 
in the relevant cage of the application form so that only one 
edge thereof is firmly pasted into the space provided. Under 
no circumstances will the examination fee refunded to you 
or transferred to other examination. it is advisable if a photo 
copy of the receipt should be kept in your safe custody.
 
08. Application Procedure :-
 8.1 the application prepared and completed by the 
candidate in his/her own  legible hand writing 
in 8.27”X 11.69” sheet of paper (a4) in size 
using both sides should be in conformity with 
the specimen application appended at the end 
of this notification. The application may be 
typed either using computer or type-writer. item 
No.01 - 05 should appear on the first page while 
item No. 06 -11  on the second page and the 
remaining items on the third page.  applications 
which are in not conformity with the specimen 
application form and are incomplete will  be 
rejected without serving a notice.  (it is advisable 
if a photo copy of the application is retained 
in your safe custody)  Further, the candidate 
should check as to whether the completed 
application form is in accordance with the 
specimen application appended at the end of  
this notice.  deviation from such requirement 
may render the application rejected.  
 8.2 applications should be prepared and completed 
in such medium of language in which the 
candidate intends sitting the examination.
 8.3 completed applications should be sent under 
registered cover to reach the "commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations 
(Establishment and Foreign Exams) Branch, 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, 
P.o.Box 1503, colombo" on or before 
22.04.2019.  the words "open competitive 
Examination for the recruitment to the post of 
Prison Guard - (2019)" should clearly be written  
on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application. When preparing 
the application, the name of the examination 
indicated in the  caption of the application 
prepared and completed in Sinhala Language 
should also be written in English Language 
while the name of the examination indicated 
in the  caption of the application prepared and 
completed in tamil Language should also be 
written in English Language.
 8.4 the commissioner General of Examination will 
issue admission cards to all those candidates 
who have submitted their applications in 
accordance with the specimen form on or 
before the closing date to sit for the competitive 
examination upon payment of the prescribed 
examination fee provided however on the 
presumption that all those candidates have 
possessed the basic qualifications specified in 
Gazette Notification. Receipt of an Admission 
card to sit the competitive examination shall not 
be treated as being the candidate has fulfilled the 
qualifications for this post.  The qualifications 
required to this post in accordance with this 
notice are found to be false  at the time of 
interview candidature is liable to be cancelled.
 8.5 the signature of the candidate placed in the 
application should be attested by a Principal 
of a Government School, Justice of the Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-Law, 
Notary Public, commissioned officer in the 
Armed Forces, an officer holding a Gazetted 
post in the police service or a staff officer 
holding a permanent post in Government and  
in case of the signature of the candidate from 
the Public/Provincial Public Service, the head 
of the institution to which such candidate 
attached. Officers already serving in the Public 
Service should submit their applications to 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
through respective heads of department before 
the closing date of applications.  in such case, 
the respective head of the department should 
certify indicating that  such an  officer could be 
released from the current position, if he/she will 
be selected to this post.
 8.6 an application in respect of which the 
examination fee has not been paid before the 
due date and any such application which is 
incomplete will be rejected without serving any 
notice for rejection.  any risk resulting from not 
duly completing any application in all respect 
shall be borne by the relevant candidate himself. 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1033
any complaints that an application gets lost or 
delayed in the post will not be accepted under 
any circumstances.
 8.7 Receipt of applications will  not  be 
acknowledged. immediately upon the 
admission cards will be issued to the 
candidates, a notice into that respect will be 
published in the national press and the web 
site of the department of Examinations of 
Sri Lanka. any candidate who will be not in 
receipt of admission card even 2 or 3 days 
will elapse from the date of such publication 
of the notice, should inquire forthwith to the 
department of Examinations informing non 
receipt as per directions given in the notice. 
Such inquiry should contain your full name, 
address, National identity card Number and 
the name of the examination applied. in case 
of the candidate is not  resident in colombo, 
such inquiry incorporating above particulars  
in writing may be sent by fax given in the 
notice to the department of Examinations 
further indicating a return fax number so that 
respective candidate's admission card may 
directly be sent to it. as a matter of supporting 
of such candidate's inquiry in such instance, it 
will be very useful for such candidate to retain 
photocopies of the application,  receipt in proof 
of   payment of examination fee and registered 
postal article receipt.
09. Admission to the examination :-
(a) Every candidate should sit the examination 
only in the examination hall allotted to such 
candidate. Every candidate should get his/her 
signature which appears in the admission card 
duly attested and surrender same to the head 
of the Examination hall on the date on which                                                                                                       
he/she sits the examination. Under no circumstance 
should  any candidate be permitted to sit the 
examination without submitting a duly attested 
admission card.  Rules and regulations bound to 
be abided by every candidate at the Examination 
hall are published in the beginning of this Gazette 
Notification. Every candidate is liable to be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations from the 
commencement of  examination to the  issuance 
of results. any breach by any candidate of such 
rules and regulations may render such candidate 
to be subject to any punishment to be imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations.
  10. Identity of Candidates.– Every candidate is required 
to establish his/her identity to the satisfaction of head of the 
Examination hall in every subject. For the establishment of 
the identity, any one of the following documents is required 
to be produced to the head of the Examination hall.
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid driving License
 
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– in 
filling the application, utmost care should be exercised to 
incorporate accurate information. if any candidate is found 
to be disqualified in terms of the rules and regulations of 
this examination, his candidature may be cancelled at any 
time even before the examination or at the time where the 
examination is in progress or after the conclusion of the 
examination. if it is found that a candidate has furnished any 
information with knowledge that they are false or if he/she 
has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she is liable to 
be dismissed from the service.  
12. method of examination and medium of language:-
 (a) this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English medium of languages.
  
 (b) No candidate will be permitted to change the 
medium of language at a latter stage.
13. Scheme of recruitment :-
 (1) Written examination :-
  the written examination will consists of 02 
question papers designing to test  the knowledge 
of the subjects mentioned in the paragraph 02 
of this notice. to pass the examination, at least 
40% marks of for each subject required to be 
obtained.  candidates are required to answer in 
all question papers.
Subjects :- 1. General intelligence
  2. General knowledge
 • The syllabus of the written examination:-
 (a) General Intelligence .- duration allowed is 
01 hour. Full marks awarded is 100%.  this 
paper is designed to include multiple choice 
questions to assess the candidate’s ability in  
logical thinking, analytical reasoning and 
ability in determining  relating to statistical, 
linguistic and morphological structures.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1034
 (b) General knowledge. – duration allowed is 
02 hours. Full marks awarded is 100%. this 
paper is designed to include multiple choice 
questions to assess the candidate’s ability on 
important matters relating to the political, 
cultural and economic environment of                 
Sri Lanka.  
 (2) Physical Fitness test :-
  a  list of names in alphabetical order setting out 
the  number equivalent to two times the number 
of existing vacancies will be called upon from 
the commissioner General of Examinations on 
the order of merit to be secured at the written 
examination so as to ensure a physical fitness 
test, i.e. physical endurance test. the date of 
physical fitness test scheduled to be conducted 
will be determined by the commissioner General 
of Prisons.
 
male  -  1000 m (1 km.) race  - within 03 
minutes and 44 seconds.
Female - 400 m (0.4 km) race  - within 02 
minutes and 05 seconds.
  the Physical Fitness Evaluation Board will 
be appointed by the commissioner General of 
Prisons.
 
 (3) The interview board to evaluate eligibility :-
 (i) an interview will be conducted to check as 
to whether the candidate has fulfilled the 
required qualifications indicated in No.06 
above and to comply with the fulfillment on 
requirements  mentioned thereof.
 (ii) an interview board will award marks within 
the limit of maximum marks allocated for 
each  main area  indicated in the following 
table:-
Main areas in 
respect of  which 
marks are awarded
Maximum 
Marks which 
could be 
awarded
Minimum Marks 
which may be 
considered for 
selection
additional 
Educational and 
other qualifications
25
      Not applicableProfessional 
qualifications
15
Sports skills 30
Leadership and 
community services
25
Main areas in 
respect of  which 
marks are awarded
Maximum 
Marks which 
could be 
awarded
Minimum Marks 
which may be 
considered for 
selection
Skills shown at the 
interview
05
Not applicable
total 100
 (iii)  candidates those who will pass the physical 
fitness test, i.e. physical endurance test 
will only be summoned for the interview 
to evaluate eligibility to the post.  Basic 
qualifications will also be checked at the 
same interview to evaluate eligibility to the 
post.  (marks obtained by the candidates at 
the written examination will not be called 
for at this interview.)
 (iv) marks obtained by each candidate at the 
interview to evaluate eligibility to the post 
will thereafter be sent to the commissioner 
General of Examinations. accordingly,  
candidates will be recruited to the post of 
Prison Guard based on the order of merit 
considering the marks to be obtained at 
the written examination and as well as the 
interview to be so conducted to evaluate 
eligibility to the post.
Note: appearing at the interview by any candidate will 
not be treated as the  fulfillment of qualifications 
to award the appointment.
 the appointing authority reserves the right 
either not to fill any certain number of 
vacancies or all of the vacancies.
 any matter not provided for herein will be 
determined by the commissioner General 
of Prisons.  all candidates are bound to be 
obliged to act in compliance with the general 
rules and regulations indicated in this Gazette 
Notification.
 in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, the tamil and the English texts of 
this notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 t. m. J. W. 
tennakoon,
 commissioner General of Prisons.
Prison headquarters,
No.150, Baseline Road,
colombo 09.
25th day of  march, 2019.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1035
 (For office use only)
sPecimen aPPlication
oPen comPetitive examination For the recrUitment to the Post oF Prison gUard - 2019
Town town no.
1st preference
2nd preference
(according to paragraph 02 of the  Gazette Notification,  please indicate the town which you intend  sit the examination 
and corresponding town number)
medium of language at the Examination     
Sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write  appropriate number in the box)
(this option is not allowed to change later)
01.   (a) Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
   (b) Name with initials (initials be written after the names) :––––––––––.
    (in English block capitals) (ex: gUNAWARDHANA, M.g.B.S.K.)
   (c) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
02.   (a) Permanent address (in English  block capitals ) (admission card will be sent to this address) :––––––––––.
   (b) Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
03. Sex : Female - 1,  male - 0  (indicate the appropriate number in the box)
04. National identity card No. :-
05. telephone No. : mobile
      Fixed
06. marital Status:-
    Unmarried   -   1   (indicate the appropriate number in the box)
    married       -   2
07. date of Birth:        year  : month : date :
08. age as at the closing date of application (22/04/2019) : y ears : months : days :
09. citizenship (by descent / by registration) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1036
10. Physical measurements :
  height :––––––––––. feet :––––––––––.  inches 
  chest :––––––––––. feet :––––––––––.  inches 
  (Female applicants shall enter height only)
11. Educational Qualifications :
 G.c.E. (o/L) G.c.E. (o/L)
   (i) year of the Examination :––––––––––.  (i) year of the Examination :––––––––––.
   (ii) index No. :––––––––––.  (ii) index Number :––––––––––.
   (iii) Examination results :-  (iii) Examination results:-
Subject Grade Subject Grade
12. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
13. if  you have been convicted by a court of law for any offence, please indicate all information about such conviction 
:––––––––––.
14. Payment of examination fee :
 (i) amount paid :––––––––––.
 (ii) Office at which the examination fee was paid :––––––––––.
 (iii) date of payment :––––––––––.
 (iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here so as to paste by an edge thereof. 
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
15. Certificate of the candidate:
i  do hereby declare that  the particulars mentioned in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge and belief and that the receipt containing No……….. dated …………in proof of the payment of examination fee 
is affixed herewith.  i agree  that i am bound to abide by the rules and regulations applicable to this examination and that the 
decision to be taken to cancel my candidature at any time before the examination or at the time the examination is in progress  
or after the conclusion of the examination if  it has been established that i am disqualified for the examination according to 
the criteria of this examination.  i do further hereby declare that i am liable to be obliged to the rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations pertaining to conducting of  this examination and issuance of results.   
       ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
1037
16. attestation of the applicant’s signature:- (shall be as per 8.5 of the Gazette Notification) :
i do hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss …………………… who submits this application is personally known to 
me and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on …………. and further that he/she has paid the prescribed 
examination fee and has affixed the receipt in the space provided in this application.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 (Signature of the Officer attesting the signature)
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––.
(Please place the official stamp)
17. Certificate of the Head of the Department(This certificate is applicable only for the applicants already serving in the 
Public Service)
i do hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss. ……………… who is submitting this application is serving in this 
Department/institution and that his/her work and conduct is satisfactory and that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications 
necessary for applying for this post as per this notice and that he/she could be released /could not be released from his/her 
present post if he/she will be selected for this post.
      
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the  department/institution.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––.
(Please place the official stamp)
03–1555/1
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.