

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
UNIVERSITIES (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 57 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 07th October, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 2.50 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 09, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 2009
 [Certified on 7th October, 2009]
L.D.—O 49/2007
A N  A CT  TO  AMEND  THE  UNIVERSITIES  A CT , NO . 16 OF  1978
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. T his Act ma y be cited as the Uni versities
(Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 2009 and shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.
2. Section 48 of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended in subsection (1A) of that section, by the repeal of
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of that subsection and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraphs:—
“(b) all permanent Senior Professors, Professors,
Associate Professors, Senior Lecturers and Lecturers
of the Departments of Study comprising the Faculty;
(c) two members elected by the Lecturers
(Probationary) of the Faculty from among such
Lecturers;
(d) two members of the permanent staff attached to the
Faculty and who are imparting instructions, other
than  those referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c),
elected from among such staff members;”.
3. Section 71 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal of
paragraph (ii) of that subsection and the substitution therefor
of the following paragraph:—
“(ii)appointment to a post other than that of teacher, of
which the salary code or minimum salary point shall
Short title and
date of
operation.
Amendment of
section 48 of
Act, No. 16 of
1978.
Amendment of
section 71 of the
principal
enactment.
2—PL 004222—4,250 (07/2009)

<!-- page 3 -->

Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 20092
be as determined by the Commission, by Rules
made from time to time:
Provided that, the Commission may require the
respective Higher Educational Institutions to
forward the recommendation for appointment to
the above posts, in accordance with the procedure
specified by the Commission by rules made in
that behalf. The Commission shall on receipt of
such recommendation make the necessary
appointments; and”.
4. Section 72 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal of
proviso of that subsection and the substitution therefor of
the following proviso:—
“Provided that where the appointment is to a post of—
(a) teacher, and the appointee has been previously
confirmed in a post of teacher in another Higher
Educational Institution or in another Department
of the Higher Educational Institution to which the
appointee is attached, such appointment shall, in
the first instance be for a probationary period of
one year; or
(b) teacher, and the appointee has been previously
confirmed in any post equivalent to the post of
teacher in another Higher Educational Institution
or in another Department of the Higher Educational
Institution to which the appointee is attached, such
appointment shall in the first instance be for a
probationary period of one year .”.
5. Section 75 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for all the words from “The
holder of any post”, to “retired from service:”, of the
following:—
“The holder of any post other than that of teacher,
shall continue in office beyond the optional age of
Amendment of
section 72 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 75 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 2009
retirement of such officer, i.e. fifty-five years and
remain in service up to the age of fifty seven years,
and  shall thereafter be deemed to have voluntarily
retired from service:”.
6. Section 147 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the definition of the
expression “Teacher”, of the following definition:—
“ “Teacher” means a Senior Professor, Professor,
Associate Professor, Senior Lecturer Grade I,
Senior Lecturer Grade II, Lecturer and Lecturer
(Probationary) and the holder of any post,
declared by Ordinance to be a post, the holder
of which, is a teacher; and”.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Amendment of
section 147 of
the principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 20094
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AW ATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.