

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2201
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2194
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"131 – 2019 cQ,s ui 05 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'07'05
No. 2,131  –  fRiday ,  July 05, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th July, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th July, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2191 - B 81539- 5,403 (07/2019)
Note.–Merchant Shipping (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 28, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2192
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2193
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2194
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
PoloNNaRuwa  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/ additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced
person or widow/widower.
05. additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and " attachment i" including Village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before
05th august, 2019.
N. C. VithaNage,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla.
on the day of 14th June, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Polonnaruwa thamankaduwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandian/General) 
in thamankaduwa Palatha division and Births 
and deaths of Medapaththuwa Meda division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Polonnaruwa.
Polonnaruwa dimbulagala Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandian/General) 
in thamankaduwa Palatha division and Births 
and deaths of Egodapaththuwa South division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Polonnaruwa.
07–134

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2195
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
PuttalaM  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/ additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced
person or widow/widower.
05. additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before
05th august, 2019.
N. C. VithaNage,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla.
on the day of 14th June, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Puttalam Kalpitiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) in 
Kalpitiya division and Births and deaths of 
Mampuriya division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam chilaw Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) in 
Pitigal Koralaya North division and Births 
and deaths of Kakkapalliya division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
07–135

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2196
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
KuRuNEGala  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/ additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced
person or widow/widower.
05. additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before
05th august, 2019.
N. C. VithaNage,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 14th June, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kurunegala ibbagamuwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandian/
General) in Hiriyala Hatpattuwa division and 
Births and deaths of Kimbulwanaoya division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kurunegala.
Kurunegala Nikaweratiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandian/
General) in wanni Hatpattuwa division and 
Births and deaths of Magul othota Koralaya 
division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kurunegala.
07–133

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2197
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages
aNuRadHaPuRa  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the Muslim Marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only Muslim males can apply for these Posts.
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced
person or widow/widower.
05. additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Muslim Marriage
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and " attachment i" including Village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before
05th august, 2019.
N. C. VithaNage,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 20th June, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
anuradhapura Kekirawa Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Kekirawa and thibbatuwewa area and 
Kalagam Palatha division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district Secretariat, 
anuradhapura 
07–136

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2198
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages
KuRuNEGala  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the Muslim Marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only Muslim males can apply for these Posts.
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced
person or widow/widower.
05. additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Muslim Marriage
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and " attachment i" including Village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before
05th august, 2019.
N. C. VithaNage,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 14th June, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kurunegala ibbagamuwa Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Melsiripura area and Hiriyala Hatpattuwa 
division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kurunegala.
07–132

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2199
mINISTRy Of PRImARy INDuSTRIES AND 
SOCIAL EmPOWERmENT
Department of Social Services
woRK MaNaGER (coNtRact)/aPPRENticE 
tRaNSlatoR (coNtRact)
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the Sri lankan citizens 
for recruiting to the post of work Manager (contract basis) 
for the period of Six months and apprentice translator 
(contract basis) of the department of Social Services. 
Prepared applications as per the following specimen 
application form should be sent to the address of director, 
department of Social Services, 02 floor, Sethsiripaya 
Stage ii, Battaramulla on or before 31.07.2019 under the 
registered post. top left hand corner of the envelope should 
carry the words "Recruitment to the posts of work Manager 
(contract)/apprentice translator (contract)". Specimen 
application form and details could be obtained through the 
web site www.socialservices.gov.lk as well. 
Qualifications for the recruitment to this post :-
1. Work 
manager (Contract) - Post 01
1.1 Age limit :
* the age shall not be less than 18 years and shall
not be more than 35.
 1.2 Educational Qualifications/Professional 
Qualifications :-
* Shall have passed G. c. E. ( o/l) examination
in Six (06) subjects with credit passes for
Sinhala/tamil/English langauge, Mathematics
and another two subjects at one sittings.
* Shall have passed G. c. E. ( a/l) examination
in all subjects in the subject stream of Science
(excluding common General test) and shall
have obtained the performance level for
following the tertiary Education course (it is
sufficient to pass the same examination in 03
subjects at one sitting under the old syllabus).
* Shall have successfully followed and obtained
a 
certificate for a technical course of more than
24 months of duration to be obtained the NVQ
qualification of not less than level (06) which
is recognized by the 
tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission related to the subject
fields of Motor Mechanism/Computer/Electronic.
* Expected competencies shall be clearly
indicated.
 1.3 Recruitment Procedure :
* c andidates will be recruited on the basis of the
merit at the structured interview.
 1.4 Salary Scale :-
* Prescribed Salary :
Basic Salary - Rs. 27,654
 Adjustment allowance - Rs. 243
cost of living allowance  - Rs. 7,800
 1.5 Regulation on employment.– the recruitment is 
made for this psot on the basis of the Six months 
contract period. 
this post does not claim for any 
rights to obtain a permanent post or it does not 
claim for any privileges or benefits which are 
entitled to the permanent public officers. 
2. Apprentice Translator (Contract) - Post 01
 2.1 Age Limit :
* the age shall not be less than 21 years and
shall not be more than 45 to the closing date of
applications.
 2.2 Educational Qualifications :
* Shall be obtained a degree by a university
recognized by the university Grant commission.
 2.3 Professional Qualifications :
* Professional qualifications obtained in the field
related to the post could be considered as a
special qualification.
 2.4 experience :
* Experience obtained in the field related to
the post could be considered as a special
qualification.
 2.5 Recruitment Procedure :
* c andidates will be recruited on the basis of the
merit at the structured interview.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2200
 2.6 Salary Scale :-
* a s per the Pac 03/2016
Prescribed Salary :
 Basic Salary - Rs. 24,980
 Adjustment allowance - Rs.3,278
cost of Living Allowance  - Rs. 7,800
 2.7 Regulation on employment.– the recruitment is 
made for this post on the basis of the one year 
contract, subject to the annual extension of the 
contract. 
this post does not claim for any rights 
to obtain a permanent post or it does not claim for 
any privileges or benefits which are entitled to the 
permanent public officers.
Note.– 
the applicant should possess a sound physical 
health. all the applicants should be of excellent 
physical and mental character to perform the duty 
at any part of Sri 
lanka. the applicants, those 
who have completed the above qualifications 
should only be applied for the above post. 
director, 
department of Social Services. 
Second floor, 
Sethsiripaya Stage ii, 
Battaramulla. 
SpeCimeN Form oF appliCatioN 
appliCatioN For the reCruitmeNt to the poSt oF
...................... iN the departmeNt oF SoCial SerViCeS 
01. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
02. Name denoted by the initials :–––––––––––.
03. Address :–––––––––––.
04. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
07. Age on closing date of the applications :
Years :––––––––.  Months :–––––––.  Days :–––––––.
08. Marital Status :–––––––––––.
09. Sex :–––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.  Index Number :–––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.  Index Number :–––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
Professional and other qualifications :
Name of the Course Institute Duration of the 
course
11. Experience :–––––––––––.
12. Details on the degree certificate (This is applicable to
the post of Apprentice Translator only) :
I. Degree :–––––––––––.
II. University/Other Institution Name :–––––––––––.
 III. Effective date for the Degree :–––––––––––.
IV. Normal/Special degree :–––––––––––.
V. Subjects :–––––––––––.
 VI. Class :–––––––––––.
i, hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. 
––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
07–225

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2201
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of fOREIGN AffAIRS
Limited Competitive Examination for filling vacancies in the Home Based Personal Assistants’ Posts in 
Sri Lanka missions  Abroad – 2018(2019)
aPPlicatioNS are hereby invited for selection of Home Based Personal assistants who are competent in English 
Stenography and computer applications, for filling 63 vacancies in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad, from Public Management 
assistants’ Service, Provincial Public Service and local Government Service, State corporations/State Banks and Semi 
Government Services such as other Statutory Boards. this examination will be held in october 2019 in colombo.
02. Eligibility: -
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri lanka and if the applicant is married, the spouse should also be a citizen of Sri 
lanka.
(b) Should be permanent officers from the Public Management Assistants’ Service, Provincial Public Service 
and the local Government Service, State corporations/State Banks and Semi Government Services such as 
other Statutory Boards, who are not more than 57 years of age on the closing date of applications, having 
completed minimum of 05 years permanent and continuous service and possessing competence in English 
Stenography and computer applications.
Note:  (i)  those who are currently serving in Sri lanka Missions abroad are not eligible to apply.
 (ii) those who have served in Sri lanka Missions earlier and returned to Sri lanka may sit for the exam. 
However, appointment will be given on priority basis to those who have spent at least 12 months after 
returning to Sri lanka on completion of their last posting.
 (iii) those who are serving on contract basis, casual basis or temporary basis in the Services mentioned 
under 02 (b) are not eligible to apply. 
03.  Method of Selection.– Selection will be made on the basis of a written examination, conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and a practical test and interview conducted by the parties appointed by the 
Secretary, Ministry of foreign affairs, which will be held in colombo.
 3.1 Written Examination: -
  Test  Duration Marks  Minimum Marks
  English Stenography  1 hour 100 40
  English and Business communication 1 hour 100 40
 
 3.2  Practical Assessment  80 Minutes  60 24
Note: The practical assessment will be designed to test the proficiency in English, in writing letters/memos, 
reports, invitations, e-mail communication and the skills of using the MS Office application. (Each 
question will carry 15 marks. total marks will be 60). (15x4)
 3.3 Interview :
 3.3.1. the interview will carry 40 marks and will be conducted by a Board appointed by the Secretary, 
Ministry of foreign affairs. 
No. Marking Scheme Marks Maximum 
marks
1 Additional Education Qualifications
i.  degree with 1st class
   ii.  degree with 2nd class upper division
  iii.  degree with 2rd class lower division
  iV .   degree   
15
12
10
08
15

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2202
No. Marking Scheme Marks Maximum 
marks
2 Other/ Professional Qualifications directly relevant to the functions of the Ministry 
of foreign affairs (international relations, law, English or other foreign languages, 
it, Human Resources Management, Marketing & Business Studies, ciM, ciMa, 
aat, etc.)
i. Post Graduate diploma
ii. diploma
III. Certificate Level Course
IV . Any qualification over six months with regard to the English language 
proficiency or any other foreign language from a recognized university, 
technical college or from a government recognized institution or 
government registered institution or similar qualifications
10
08
06
04
10
3 Behavioral competencies and the fluency in English language
 I. Communication Skills and the English Language Proficiency
 ii. Knowledge in international affairs
 iii. cultural Sensitivity
 iV . Positive attitude 
 V . Personality & Grooming
05
03
03
03
01
15
total 40
 3.4 applicants will be required to sit for a test in English Stenography. the test will be conducted in colombo 
in the English medium only. the speed in Stenography required for the test will be 60 w.p.m. 100 marks 
will be allocated for the English Stenography test. those who have secured 40% or more for both written 
papers will be called for a practical assessment and interview. However, if there is an insufficient number 
of qualified applicants with the above mark level at the written examination, the Secretary/foreign affairs 
reserves the right to take the final decision on the level of the cut-off mark at which the candidates are 
called for the practical assessment and interview. candidates must obtain a minimum of 40% marks for 
practical assessment (60×40% = 24). there is no minimum mark level for the interview. 
 3.5  the selected applicants as per the merit order of the total marked obtained in the written examination will 
be called for the practical assessment and the interview. Eligibility of the applicants and the authenticity 
of the required docments will be checked during the interview. the practical test wil be conducted by the 
parties appointed by the Secretary, Ministry of foreign affairs. the decision of the Secretary, Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs will be final with regard to the mission to which the selected applicants will be posted. 
 3.6  The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations will be final with regard to conducting the 
examination and issuing the results.
 3.7  the result sheet prepared on the basis of merit order of total aggregate marks obtained by the applicants 
prepared by the department of Examinations, will be sent to the Secretary, Ministry of foreign affairs.
  additionally, examination results will be directly conveyed to each applicant who appeared for the 
examination or the same will be published in the website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka: 
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
 3.8 when a request is made to release successful candidates to be assigned to the Ministry of foreign affairs, 
the candidates should assume duties in the Ministry of foreign affairs on the due date. in the event of 
an officer failing to do so, the Secretary/Foreign Affairs should be informed to that effect in writing and 
those who fail to report for the duty in the Ministry of foreign affairs within four weeks from the due 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2203
date will be considered disqualified for 
the appointment and action will be taken 
at the discretion of the Secretary. further, 
the selected candidates should inform 
the Secretary to the Ministry of foreign 
affairs within two weeks from the date of 
receiving letters of appointment whether 
the appointment is accepted or not. in 
case of a failure to do so, action will be 
taken to consider him/her as an applicant 
who does not accept the appointment.
04. Terms of Engagement :-
4.1 (a) An officer selected will be required to serve 
initially in colombo at the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs for a specified period prior to 
being posted to a Sri lanka Mission abroad. 
if his/her work and conduct during this initial 
period of service at the Ministry of foreign 
affairs are found to be unsatisfactory, his/
her appointment is liable to be cancelled. 
the period of service in the Ministry can be 
changed according to the requirements of the 
Ministry.
 (b) Posting will be decided on the basis of the 
number of vacancies available and the 
requirements of the respective Missions and 
the officer’s suitability and competence (in 
foreign languages etc.) and in deciding on 
such postings, there is no obligation, on the 
part of the Ministry to consider the officer’s 
personal needs (children’s education etc.). 
Further the Ministry is not bound to fill the 
vacancies purely in accordance with the 
order of merit of the selection tests.
 4.2 An officer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka 
Mission abroad is normally required to serve 
abroad for a period of three years in accordance 
with the terms and conditions as stipulated by 
the Secretary, Ministry of foreign affairs and to 
enter into an agreement to the effect. this period 
may be extended depending on the exigency of 
the service.
 4.3 Officers in Government Service (Public 
Management assistants’ Service/Provincial Public 
Service /local Government Service) if selected, 
will continue to be paid on the present salary 
scales. Others will be paid a fixed salary of                 
Rs. 28,954/- per month.
  in addition, they will be paid an overseas 
allowance that is applicable, in accordance with 
existing rules and regulations while they are 
serving in Sri lanka Missions abroad.
 4.4 When a selected officer is posted to a Sri Lanka 
Mission abroad, the Government will meet the 
cost of air passage to the country of posting and 
back, accommodation there and other allowances 
as determined by the Secretary, Ministry of 
foreign affairs during his/her service abroad, 
only in respect of the officer, his/her spouse and 
two “eligible children”. (for this purpose of the 
clause “eligible children” means the unmarried 
and dependent children under 21 years of age).
05.  Method of Application :-
 5.1 Printed application forms will not be issued. 
application form should be prepared in an a-4 
size paper as per the specimen appended to this 
notification, containing items from 1-9 on the 
first page, 10-19 on the second page and the 
rest on the third page and should be filled in 
applicant’s own hand writing.
  when the application form is prepared in Sinhala 
or tamil languages, the name of the examination 
should be mentioned in the English language 
as well, in addition to the names in Sinhala or 
tamil.
  applications which are not in conformity with 
the specimen and those are not providing the 
required details will be rejected without any 
notice. therefore, applicants are advised to keep 
a photocopy of the application.
  applications should be forwarded through 
the respective Heads of department. Every 
application should carry an endorsement from the 
Head of department as  to the suitability of the  
applicant for service overseas, that the applicant, 
if selected, can be released  from his/her present 
post immediately and that the particulars given 
in the application are correct.
 5.2 a pplications should be forwarded by registered 
post to reach the commissioner General of 
Examinations, organization, Establishment and 
foreign Examinations Branch, department of 
Examinations, Post Box 1503, colombo, on 
or before 02
nd of august, 2019 and should be 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2204
marked “Examination for Selection of Home 
Based Personal Assistants to fill vacancies in the 
Sri lanka Missions abroad” on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope. English letter “P” should 
be clearly indicated within a cage (2cmx2cm) 
on the top of the left side of the envelope. No 
application received after the closing date will be 
accepted.
  this examination will be conducted during the 
month of october, 2019 in colombo.
06. Examination Fees :- Examination fee is Rs. 600/-
.  the receipt obtained for payment of the fee in the name 
of the applicant at Post-Office/Sub-Post Office or District 
Secretariat/divisional Secretariat in the island to the credit 
of Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations should be firmly affirmed to the application 
by its margin at the place provided in the application. 
Details of the receipt such as number, the Post-Office/Sub-
Post-Office where money is paid, date and the amount paid, 
should be indicated in the relevant space.  
Money orders or stamps will not be accepted for 
payment of examination fees. under no circumstances, will 
the examination fees be refunded. applicants are advised to 
keep a photocopy of the payment receipt.   
07. applications which are not completed in all respects 
are liable to be rejected. No complaints that an application 
has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
08. under the assumption that only those who are 
qualified as per the Gazette notification have applied for the 
Examination, the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue the admission cards to the candidates who are 
within the specified age limit given in the notification and 
have submitted the duly filled application forms together 
with the receipt for the payment of the specified examination 
fee on or before the closing date of applications. as soon as 
the Admission Cards are issued, a notification to that effect 
will be published in the newspapers by the department of 
Examinations. in case the admission card of any candidate 
is not received within 02 or 03 days after the appearance of 
the newspaper notification, as instructed in the notification, 
an inquiry should be made from the organization Branch 
(Establishment & foreign Examinations) of the department 
of Examinations. during such an inquiry, applicant should 
precisely mention the Name of the Examination, Name 
of the applicant, National identity card Number and the 
address. in the case of an outstations applicant, it would be 
more effective to send a letter by fax to the fax number given 
in the notification mentioning a return fax number on which 
a copy of the admission card could be received quickly. 
in making such an inquiry, it would be useful to have the 
copy of the application form, the copy of the receipt for 
the payment of the examination fee and the receipt issued 
when sending the application form by registered post ready 
as proof for any information required by the department of 
Examinations. 
09. the signature of the applicant appearing in the 
application and the admission card should have been attested. 
an applicant who applies through an institution should get 
his/her signature attested by the head of the institution or 
any authorized officer. 
10. Either a National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons or valid passport or a 
valid driving licence will only be accepted to prove identity 
of a candidate to a supervisor at examinations conducted by 
the Sri lanka Examinations department.
11. issuance of admission card to candidate shall not 
be in any way treated as that candidate had satisfied all the 
qualifications for the examination.
12. the designation and the work place of the applicant 
at the time of the application is made shall be relevant to all 
matters with regard to the examination and any request for 
change thereto after forwarding the application will not be 
considered.   
13. Candidates will be subject to rules and regulations 
related to examination procedures imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.  further, a 
candidate who violates such rules shall be subjected to any 
penalty imposed on him/her by the commissioner General 
of Examinations.
14.  In case of any divergence in the text of this notification 
published in Sinhala, tamil and English, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
15.  the decision of the Secretary/ foreign affairs will 
be the final regarding filling of all the vacancies or a part 
thereof or not filling any of the existing vacancies out of the 
qualified candidates of this examination. 
  
 
raViNatha aryaSiNha,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of foreign affairs.
Ministry of foreign affairs,
P. o. Box, 583, Republic Building,
colombo 01.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2205
SPEciMEN  aPPlicatioN foRM  
limited CompetitiVe examiNatioN For FilliNg oF VaCaNCieS 
iN the home BaSed perSoNal aSSiStaNt'S poStS iN Sri 
laNka miSSioNS aBroad - 2018(2019)
(For office use only)
Medium  Sinhala - 2
    t amil - 3
    English - 4 (Give the relevant number  
    in the box)
the service to which you belong 
Public/Provincial Public/local Government Services  - 1
Not in Public/Provincial Public/local 
 Government Services   - 2
(Give the relevant number in the box)
01. (i) Name in Full (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (eg. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN 
KuMaRa GuNawaRdHaNa)
 (iii) Name in Full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02.  Address:
 (i) Official (in English) :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Private (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (admission card will be posted to this address)
 (iii) Telephone Nos. :––––––––––––.
 
03. (i) Sex: Female  – 1
     Male  – 0   
     (Give the relevant No. in the box)
 (ii) N.I.C. No.:
 (iii) Mobile Telephone Numberr :
 (iv) Date of Birth: 
  Year :                         Month :             Date :
 (v) Age as at closing date of applications: -
  Years :             Months :                Days :
04.  Civil Status:  Unmarried - 1 
     Married      - 2  
     (Give the relevant No. in the box)
05. If married, Name of spouse and his/her nationality :              
––––––––––––
06.  Number of children, their Names, dates of Birth and 
their Ages :––––––––––––.
07. if spouse is employed, particulars of employment (if a 
government Officer, give full particulars)  :––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications (including medium) :––––––.
09. (a) if the applicant is in the Public/Provincial Public/
Local Government Service, the date of first 
appointment under Public/Provincial Public/local 
Government Service :––––––––––––.
 (B) if the applicant is not in the Public/Provincial 
Public/Local Government Service :––––––––––––.
 Name of the institutions and the periods of service where 
the applicant has served during the five years prior to the 
closing date of application :
Name of the 
Institution
Designation Duration
from to
1.
2.
3.
10. Date of Confirmation :––––––––––––.
11. Present Grade and Date of Entry to it :––––––––––––.
12. Present Annual Salary :––––––––––––.
\
13. Nature of Present Duties  :––––––––––––.
14. Speed in  :
  (a) English Stenography :––––––––––––.
  (b) English Typing :––––––––––––.
15, Proficiency in :
  (a) English Language :––––––––––––.
  (b) Sinhala/Tamil Language :––––––––––––.
  (c) Computer Literacy :––––––––––––.
  (d) Other Foreign Languages :––––––––––––.
16. Sri lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant has 
served earlier and the period :––––––––––––.
17. Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
18. Remarks :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2206
 the receipt obtained for the payment of the correct 
amount of examination fees should be pasted in the cage 
below :
 (I) Receipt No.  :––––––––––––.
 (II)  Post-Office/Sub Post-Office or District/Divisional 
Secretariat  :––––––––––––.
 (III)  Date  :––––––––––––.
 (IV)  Amount Paid :––––––––––––.
  
19. Certificate by the Applicant:-
I declare that during the five years preceding 
…..........……., 2019 have earned all increments and that 
I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary 
punishment (excluding warning), and that to the best of my 
knowledge and belief the information given in this form is 
correct and accurate. I further declare that I will be subject to 
rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations in relation to examination procedures.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
20. (i) only for the applicants in the Public/Provincial 
Public/Local Government Service :
Certificate of the Head of Department
(To be filled in by the Head of the Department)
I have ascertained that during the five years preceding 
………., 2019, Mr./Mrs./Miss………………………… has
(a) Earned all his/her increments 
(b) Not been subjected to any form of disciplinary 
punishment excluding warning.
i certify that the particulars given in the application are 
correct.  i hereby certify that the examination fees have 
been paid and the receipt is attached herewith.  The officer 
placed his/ her signature in my presence and i certify his/
her signature.
This officer, if selected, could be released form his/her 
present post immediately.
    
 ––––––––––––––––,  
 Signature of the Head of the department.
 (With the official Frank)
Name  :––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––––.
(ii)  for the applicants other than those from the Public/
Provincial Public/local Government Service. 
Certificate of the Head of the Institution
(To be filled in by the Head of the Institution)
i certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss…………… …. 
is serving in this institution from ………………………,  
his/her work and conduct are satisfactory, and placed his/her 
signature before me on ……………….  i further certify that 
the prescribed examination fee has been paid and the receipt 
obtained by paying the above fee has been affixed.  
This officer if selected could be released from his/her 
present post immediately.
    
 ––––––––––––––––,  
 Signature of the Head of the institution.
 (With the official Frank)
Name  :––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––––.
07–500

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2207
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book list)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (list of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2019
2208
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2019
 JuL y 05.07.2019 friday — 21.06.2019 friday 12 noon
  12.07.2019 friday –– 28.06.2019 friday 12 noon
  19.07.2019 friday –– 05.07.2019 friday 12 noon
  26.07.2019 friday –– 12.07.2019 friday 12 noon
 AuGuST 02.08.2019 friday — 19.07.2019 friday 12 noon
  09.08.2019 friday –– 26.07.2019 friday 12 noon
  16.08.2019 friday –– 02.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  23.08.2019 friday –– 09.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  30.08.2019 friday –– 16.08.2019 friday 12 noon
 SEPTEmbER 06.09.2019 friday — 23.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  12.09.2019 thursday –– 30.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  20.09.2019 friday –– 06.09.2019 friday 12 noon
  27.09.2019 friday –– 12.09.2019 thursday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2019.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.