

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1925
Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1924 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"398 – 2024 wf.daia;= ui 16 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'08'16
No. 2,398 –  FRiday, august 16, 2024
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE"
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th september, 2024, should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd august, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
Gangani  Liyanage,
government Printer.
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1921 - B 082598 - 5,403 (08/2024)
N. B.–   Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2397 of 09.08.2024 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2024
1922
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a sri 
Lankan. a ,sri Lankan, is a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a sinhalese educated in sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of service-general :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public service in a medium other than sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public service. such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public service  Provident Fund.  the government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local government  service and Public 
service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public service, Provincial Public 
service, Public corporate sector and companies fully owned by the 
government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2024
1923
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. should the supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner general of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2024
1924
Post - v acant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ' S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages (Sinhala)
aNuRadHaPuRa distRict
aPPLicatioNs  are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule here of;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil (relevant language for the post) 
with 02 credit passes in not more than t wo (02) sittings in gcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to 
perform duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else 
should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
(Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification.)
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as village name list/ grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Muslim 
Marriage, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices 
exhibited in public places within the division such as district secretariat, divisional secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said "annex-01" inclusive of Village Name List/ grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar general's 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18
th  of september, 2024 by registered post to the address 
given in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar general.
Registrar general's department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
on this 27th day of July, 2024.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2024
1925
Schedule
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
anuradhapura Horowpothana Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Hurulu Palatha division
district secretary/ additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, anuradhapura.
anuradhapura thalawa Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Katiyawa area of Nuwaragam Palatha 
division
district secretary/ additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, anuradhapura.
anuradhapura galnewa Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Negampaha area of Kalagam Palatha 
division
district secretary/ additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, anuradhapura.
anuradhapura Kahatagasdigiliya Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Nelugollaka area of Hurulu Palatha 
division
district secretary/ additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, anuradhapura.
08-105
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 
mINISTR y  Of  AGRICuLTuRE   AND 
PLANTATION   INDuSTRIES
Agriculture Division
coMPEtitiVE  ExaMiNatioN  FoR tHE 
REcRuitMENt to tHE  Posts oF  VEtERiNaR y 
REsEaRcH  oFFicER  aNd REsEaRcH  oFFicER  
iN tHE sRi LaNKa aNiMaL  PRoductioN  aNd 
HEaLtH sERVicE  - 2024
iN order to attach to the currently vacant Posts of Veterinary 
Research Officer and Research Officer, applications are 
invited for the competitive examination from officers in the 
sri Lanka animal Production and Health service those who 
have fulfilled below mentioned qualifications.
01. Qualifications required
01) Veterinary Research Officer - should have 
obtained appointment as a Veterinary surgeon 
in the sri Lanka animal Production and Health 
service during the period from 2018 to 2024, 
completed a permanent service period and passed 
the relevant four year degree in Veterinary science 
with a 1
st class or 2nd class (upper) pass.
02) Research Officer - should have obtained 
appointment as a Veterinary surgeon or Livestock 
Officer in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
Health service during the period from 2018 to 
2024, completed a satisfactory permanent service 
period and passed the relevant four years degree in 
Veterinary science/ animal Husbandry science/ 
agri science with a 1
st class or 2 nd class (upper) 
pass.
• Following qualifications should have been 
fulfilled for these two posts.
1. Should have not been subjected to a 
disciplinary punishment in the immediately 
preceding years and not initiated disciplinary 
actions.
2. should have earned salary increments in the 
immediately preceding years.
02. if you wish to apply for these posts, the specimen form 
appended wherewith should be completed and sent to 
the director general of  animal Production and Health 
before 18.09.2024. application should be prepared 
using both sides of an a4 paper so as to appear from 
no. 01 to 06 on the first side and the rest of the numbers 
sequentially on the other side of the paper. applications 
not comply with the specimen form given in the notice 
and incomplete applications will be rejected. The name 
of the examination should be mentioned on the top left 
hand corner of the envelop contained the application.
03. the written examination will be held by the director 
general of animal Production and Health and the 
candidate should produce the national identity card 
issued by the dept. of Registration of Persons or the 
valid pass port in order to prove his identity. the 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2024
1926
receipt or a clear copy of the receipt obtained by paying 
Rs. 1,000/- to the shroff of the Head Office of the Dept. 
of animal Production and Health or to any branch of 
the People's Bank in the island to be credited to the 
below mentioned account no. should be affixed in the 
relevant place of the application. Money orders or cash 
will not be accepted for the examination fee and the 
paid fee will not be refundable or changed to any other 
examination at any reason.
 Name of the account holder  : director general of 
animal Production and 
Health
 Bank : People's Bank, 
Peradeniya Branch
 account No. : 057-100179027275
04. in an event where a candidate  has not received the 
admission card after the issuance of admission cards for 
the examination, inquiries should be made by producing 
a certified copy of the application and the receipt of the 
payment to the dept. of animal Production and Health. 
Every candidate should get certified the signature in 
the admission card of the relevant examination hall 
and hand over it to the supervisor of it in the first day 
of appearing at the examination hall. candidates are 
subject to the rules and regulations enacted by the 
director general of dept. of animal Production & 
Health in respect of conduction the examination and 
issuing of results.
05. the examination will be held in kandy only in 
Sinhala, Tamil and English media.
06. Recruitments will be made based on merits secured 
at the written competitive examination. Based on 
the results, appointments will be made by the Public 
service commission as per the existing vacancies 
according to the order of merits of the officers those 
who obtain highest  marks. (syllabus is given in the 
annexure 02)
07. Further, it is kindly notified that no opportunity is 
available to appoint back to the post of Veterinary 
Surgeon/ Livestock Officer after receiving appointment 
as a Veterinary Research Officer or a Research Officer 
based on the above mentioned written examination.
By the order of the Public service commission,
secretary,
Ministry of agriculture and Plantation industries.
date : 12.08.2024
APPLICATION  fOR  RECRuITmENT  Of OffICERS  IN  ThE  POST  Of vETERINAR y 
RESEARCh OffICERS  AND  RESEARCh OffICERS  IN  ThE  SRI  LANkA  ANImAL  
PRODuCTION  AND  hEALTh SER vICE  - 2024
 (for official use)
Language medium in which appears for the written competitive examination
sinhala - 2
tamil - 3   (Write the relevant number  in the cage)
English - 4
Post applying for - 
(Veterinary Research Officer - 01)
(Research Officer  - 02)
(if it is both posts  - 03)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. (i) Name in full (in block letters) : …………………………………………………………………………………
  ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
  (eg. : HERatH   MudiyaNsELagE  saMaN  KuMaRa   guNaW aRdHaNa)

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2024
1927
 (ii) Last name with initials:
  (in block letters) …………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (iii) Name in full (in sinhala/ tamil): …………………………………………………………….….….….….….….
  ……………………………………………………………………………………………….….….….….….….
02. Present place of work and address (in English block letters): …………………………………………………………
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
03. National identity card No: 
04. Male/ Female : Male - 0  (Write the relevant number in the cage)  Female - 1
05. date of Birth : y ear    Month   date
06. Present designation : …………………………………………………………………………………………………
07. Date of first appointment in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service : …………………………………
08. I. Confirmed date in the post : ………………………………………………………………………………………
 ii. service period : ……………………………………………………………………………..……………………
09. service particulars : 
Present designation Service Period Place of work Department/ Provincial 
Council
From To
10. details of degrees obtained :
Degree/ Post Graduate 
Degree
Class University Year
1.
2.
3.
11. Whether salary increments have been earned in the applying preceding years :
Serial No. Year Whether salary increments have been 
earned or not
Whether any disciplinary action has been taken ? …………………………………………………………………
if any disciplinary action has been taken, details with the time period
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………….…………

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2024
1928
12. details of the receipt obtained paying the fee:
 i. Branch of the bank to which the payment made : ……………………………………….
 ii. Receipt No. …………………………………………….
 iii. date …………………………………………
Affix the receipt with one edge so as  not to fall off
i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. i am 
aware that, if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualified, if detected 
before selection and to be dismissed without any compensation, if such detection is made after appointment. i hereby certify 
placing my usual signature that I have not been convicted of any criminal offence by any court of law. I also declare that I 
will abide by the rules and regulations laid down by the commissioner general of Examinations regarding the conduct of 
the examination.
date : ………………………………… …………………………………………
 signature of the applicant.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
i certify that the above applicant Mr/Mrs/Miss …………………………………. is serving in this department/ Provincial 
council as a …………………………………………… and the particulars furnished in the application are correct as per 
his/her personal file. He/she could/ could not be released from this Department/ Provincial Council if selected for this above 
post. (write off irrelevant words)
date : …………………………… …………………………………………
 Head of the department,
 (Official stamp).
annexure 02
Competitive Examination for Appointment to the Posts of Veterinary Research Officer and Research Officer in Sri 
Lanka Animal Production and health Service - 2024
01. details of the Examination :
Question 
Paper 
No.
Question Paper Time Total Marks Pass 
Marks
01. Question paper for assessing the relevant knowledge on 
Research Field
02 hours 100 50
02. aptitude test 01 hour 100 50
* Appointing Authority has the authority to reduce the minimum level of pass marks when the numbers of the officers 
obtained the minimum level of pass marks is lesser than the existing vacancies.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2024
1929
02. syllabus of the examination :
Name of the question paper Syllabus
01. Question paper for assessing the 
relevant knowledge on Research 
Field
1. science and Research Environment of sri Lanka, National Research 
Policy of sri Lanka, Policy of agricultural Research, allocation 
of funds for Research activities, National institutions engaged in 
Research activities, Research priorities.
2. Nomenclature of Researches, types of Researches, Fundamental and 
adaptive research.
3. Requirements of Researches - identification and need of analysis, 
methods of identification and giving priority for analytical methods.
4. Preparation of researches, techniques of sampling, number of 
samples, systems of testing, matters to be considered in selection of 
samples, system of testing, matters to be considered in selection of 
locations, experiments, chai system, using logical draft plan, logic of 
"all or Nothing".
5. searching for Researches, international and National Publications on 
Researches, Magazines, searching of information, Library Networks.
6. statistics relating to Researches, Packages of statistics and data 
analysis and soft logics, basic calculation, total, average, approved 
changes, co-efficient relations, use of approved distribution circle.
7. documentation, statements of decisions of the Researches, approved 
form used for Research Publication, Miscellaneous submissions 
along with usefulness of concise statements regarding the decisions 
followed in writing, relative benefits and losses.
8. Researches and improvements-difference between Research and 
extension, Extension re co-ordination, dissemination of Research 
findings, Post research co-ordinations.
9. Ethics of researches, collection of information through other sources, 
utilizing unpublished data for research activities.
02. aptitude test ability in making correct decisions within a short period is expected. 
A question paper prepared for judging whether the applicants have 
gained the required knowledge, merits and attitudes as well as 
proficiency.
08-144
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  oF   goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.