

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.04.2021
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 2224$2 - 2021 wfm%a,a ui 19 jeks i÷od - 2021'04'19
No. 2224/2  -  MONDAY ,  APRIL   19,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A-  PG 5390 -  545 (04/2021)
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT, No. 14 OF 2008
Order under Sub Section (4) of Section 3
BY Virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(4) of the Strategic Development Projects  Act, No. 14 of
2008, as amended, I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Minister of Finance, do by this Notification:
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the project to set up a “Dedicated
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Zone” (hereinafter referred to as “the zone”) in an area of 400 acres of land owned by
the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “BOI”) in Hambantota-Arabokka area in two stages
of 200 acres each to facilitate investments made by foreign/local Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, as a project of
national interest to bring economic and social benefits and also to change the landscape of the Country. BOI will
be the implementing agency in coordination with the Ministry in charge of the subject of Health and Ministry in
charge of the subject of Production, Supply and Regulation of Pharmaceuticals.
(2) Declare that the infrastructure requirement of the first phase of the zone will be ready within eighteen (18) months
from the date of approval of the Cabinet of Ministers in terms of Section 3 (3) of the Strategic Development Projects
Act, No.14 of 2008, as amended (hereinafter referred to as “SDP Act”).
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the SDP Act, the proposed exemptions set out in
the Schedule below to this Notification shall apply to individual enterprises identified by the BOI as falling within
the purview of the Strategic Development Project identified herein and established within the zone, and will be
customized for each said enterprise (hereinafter referred to as “the enterprise”) according to pre-defined criteria
N. B.– The amended notification of this will be published on 06th July, 2021 under No. 2235/15.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.04.2021
2A
developed based on parameters such as the size of the investment, type of the product to be manufactured, market
orientation, type of patent rights, domestic value addition, manufacturing quality etc. Individual enterprises shall be
eligible for selected incentives out of the incentives referred in Schedule (a) to (f) based on the above criteria.
(4) The incentives referred in the Schedule will be reviewed every five (05) years with effect from the date of approval
of the parliament for this zone under Section 3(5) of the SDP Act, as amended and submitted to the Cabinet of
Ministers for its approval followed by a new Gazette Notification under Section 3(4).
(5) Granting of incentives for each enterprise will be decided by a Committee comprised of the Secretary or nominee to
the Ministry in charge of the subject of Health, the Secretary or nominee to the Ministry in charge of the subject of
Production, Supply and Regulation of Pharmaceuticals, Director General of BOI, General Manager of State
Pharmaceutical Corporation, General Manager of State Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Corporation, Chief Executive
Officer of National Medicines Regulatory Authority, Director General of Export Development Board and Director
General of Central Environmental Authority which will be stipulated in the individual agreement between the BOI
and the enterprise (hereinafter referred to as “BOI Agreement”).
SCHEDULE
(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(a) Exemption from Corporate Income Tax (CIT)
(a).l For income generated through exports (including deemed exports) minimum of five (05) years up to the
maximum of ten (10) years tax holiday will be granted based on the aforesaid criteria.
The said exemption period shall be reckoned from the year in which the enterprise commences to make profits
or any year of assessment not later than two (02) years reckoned from the date on which such enterprise
commences commercial operations, whichever falls first.
After the expiry of the aforesaid tax holiday period, the prevailing CIT rate applicable for exporters at that time
shall be applicable in respect of the profits generated by the enterprise.
(a).2 For income generated through import substitution via sales to the local market.
The prevailing concessionary CIT rate applicable for exporters at that time shall be granted for a minimum of
five (05) years up to a maximum of ten (10) years period based on the aforesaid pre-defined criteria.
The said concession period shall be reckoned from the year in which the enterprise commences to make
profits or any year of assessment not later than two (02) years reckoned from the date on which such
enterprise commences commercial operations, whichever falls first.
After the expiry of the aforesaid tax holiday period, the prevailing Corporate Income Tax rate applicable for
manufacturers at that time shall be applicable in respect of the profits generated by the enterprise.
(b) Income Tax on Employment
Up to a maximum number of twenty (20) expatriate employees of the enterprise shall be exempted from income tax
arising from gains and profits from employment in the enterprise in the zone for a period of five (05) years.
(2) Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of  Value Added Tax (V AT) under the Value Added
Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 and its amendments for the following:

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.04.2021
3A
i. Construction related items
On all imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) or supply from any registered
person, who is registered with the V AT administration system (e.g. Simplified Value Added Tax -SV AT)
administrated by the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue to the enterprise during the project
implementation period;
ii. Capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) for the use of both production for export, including deemed
exports, and import substitution via sales to local market.
On all imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) and supply from any registered
person, who is registered with the V AT administration system (e.g. SV AT) administrated by the Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue to the enterprise; and
iii. Raw materials and production/process related consumables for both production for export including deemed
exports and import substitution via sales to local market.
On all imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) and supply from any registered
person, who is registered with the V AT administration system (e.g. SV AT) administrated by the Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue to the enterprise.
Accordingly, V AT shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market by the
enterprise.
(3) Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of  2011
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL)
under the Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of  2011 and its amendments:
i. On all imports of construction related items including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) during
project Implementation period;
ii. On all imports of capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) including purchases from bonded areas (Customs
or BOI) for the use of both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via sales
to local market; and
iii. On all imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) of raw materials and production/
process related consumables for both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution
via sales to local market.
Accordingly, PAL shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market by
the enterprise.
(4) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Customs Import Duty (CID) under the Customs
Ordinance (Chapter 235):
i. On all imports of construction related items including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) during
project implementation period;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.04.2021
4A
ii. On all imports of capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) including purchases from bonded areas
(Customs or BOI) for the use of both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution
via sales to local market; and
iii. On all imports of raw materials and production/process related consumables including purchases from bonded
areas (Customs or BOI) for both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via
sales to local market as approved by the BOI, excluding the items in the negative list published by the
Ministry of Finance.
However, any importation of items in the negative list shall be considered by the Board of Directors of
BOI, where such items are not available in sufficient quality, quantity and to conform to the time lines of
the project completion.
Accordingly, CID shall not be charged for import substitution  via sales of finished goods to the local market by
the enterprise.
(5) Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of CESS under the Sri Lanka Export Development
Act, No. 40 of 1979 and its amendments:
i. On all imports of construction related items including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) during
project implementation period;
ii. On all imports of capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) including purchases from bonded areas (Customs
or BOI) for the use of both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via sales
to local market; and
iii. On all imports of raw materials and production/process related consumables including purchases from bonded
areas (Customs or BOI) for both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via
sales to local market.
Accordingly, CESS shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market
by the enterprise.
M
AHINDA RAJAPAKSA, M.P.
Minister of Finance.
Ministry of Finance,
Colombo 01,
April 19,  2021.
05 - 10
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.