

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1981$2 - 2016 wf.daia;= ui 22 jeks i÷od - 2016'08'22
No.1981/2 -  MONDAY   AUGUST  22,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A
NORTH  WESTERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
The Department of Co-operative Development (North Western Province)
CODE   OF   CO-OPERATIVE   REGULATIONS   FOR   ELECTING   REGIONAL   COMMITTEE   MEMBERS  OF
MULTIPURPOSE  CO-OPERATIVE   SOCIETIES  IN   NORTH   WESTERN   PROVINCE
THE Code of Regulations on Co-operative Elections formulated on procedures in electing Committee Members of
Regions at Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province and matters connected  or consequential
thereto where authority has been vested in the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative
Societies to formulate regulations for the purpose of electing Regional Committees in terms of Registered By-laws.
As per powers vested in me through the by-law 23 of the registered by-laws of the Multipurpose Co-operative
Societies in North-western Province or any other specific by-law or /and the by-law No. 24 of the by-law of the Udubaddawa
Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd, I, Dissanayanayake Mudiyanselage Kulamina Chandana Dissanayake, the
Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of North-western Province, do hereby stipulate the regulations
under mentioned for the purpose of electing Regional Committee Members of the Multipurpose Co-operative Societies
in North-western province in relation to which such powers have been vested.
D.M.K.C.D
ISSANAYAKE,
Commissioner of Co-operative Development &
Registrar of Co-operative Societies (North-western).
On 12th August, 2016,
Kurunegala.
PART  I
GENERAL
1.1 These regulations are called the Code of Co-operative Regulations for Electing Regional
Committee Members of Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province and
this Code of Electoral Regulations should be effective in North-western Province with effect
from the date of its publication in the Gazette.
2.1 The Code of Co-operative Regulations for Electing Regional Committee Members of
Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province which, hereinafter will be
called the Code of Electoral Regulations, will be applicable only for the Multipurpose Co-
operative Societies in North-western Province, which, by their registered by-laws, have vested
powers of formulating regulations for electing Regional Committees to the Commissioner
of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies.
Short title and
effective date of
regulations
Relevance of
electoral
regulations

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
2A
2.2 when the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies
in North-western Province is empowered by a Co-operative Law currently inforce to formulate
a Code of Electoral Regulations for the purpose of electing Regional Committee Members
of Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province, it should be inferred that
this Code of Electoral Regulations has been formulated in compliance with an authority vested
by the said Co-operative Law and the same should be obeyed irrespective of anything mentioned
in this Code of Electoral Regulations.
3.1 For the purposes of the Code of Electoral Regulations, Electorate means the area of influence
of the Society mentioned in the registered by-law of the relevant Society.
3.2 Regional areas for the purpose of electoral work should be specified in terms of the following
provisions:
a) For the purposes of this Code of Electoral Regulations, an Electorate means the area of
the Region as stipulated for such a Region by the Board of Directors of the relevant
Society.
b) Except where any Regional area has been amalgamated with an adjoining Regional area
by a Board of Directors, Regional areas mentioned in the Electoral Regulation 3(2) (a)
should be taken into consideration for the purposes of this Code of Electoral Regulations,
subject to Electoral Regulations 3(2) (c) and 3(2) (d), irrespective of whether or not
any Regional area contains a Region.
c) Nevertheless, when the date for entertaining nominations has been notified for election
of Regional Committee Members within 06 months from the date on which decision
was taken by the Board of Directors to amalgamate one Region with another Region,
the Board of Directors should make provisions required to establish separate
Committees for each of such Regional areas so amalgamated, notwithstanding
amalgamation of Regional areas.
d) Every other time the Regional areas have been amalgamated subject to matters specified
in Electoral Regulation 3 (2) (c), the Regional areas amalgamated by the Board of
Directors should be taken into account for the purposes mentioned in this code of
electoral regulations.
3.3 A Polling Center for the purposes mentioned in this Code of Electoral Regulations should be
established in an office situated in a Regional area or a in a Region or a Mini Co-op City or a
Co-op City or some other location.
P
ART  II
ELECTORAL  REGISTERS  OF  MEMBERS
4.1 Electoral Registers of all qualified members should be prepared by the Board of Directors
for each period of six months that ends respectively on 30 th June and 31 st December every
year in 04 copies in conformity with the Co-operative Law and the Electoral Regulation 8.1(d)
currently inforce. Each such electoral register of members should be prepared, in computer
typesetting form, within 10 days from the termination of each of such 06 months period.
4.2 Thereupon, the responsibility of preparing Electoral Registers of Members referred to as
Electoral Registers in this Code of Electoral Regulations accurately as stipulated in the
Electoral Regulation 4.1 within the specified period is delegated to the Board of Directors,
Electorate, Polling
Region and
Polling Centre
Preparation of
electoral registers
of members

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
General Manager and Secretary and such Electoral Registers, certified correct, should have
been signed by the Chairman, a Director, General Manager and Secretary.
5.1 Electoral Registers should be publicly exhibited in the under mentioned locations during the
period from 11 th to 25 th of the month of completion of preparation of Electoral Registers as
specified in the Electoral Regulation  4.1 so as to enable anybody to examine it without making
a payment.
a) Society Headquarters
and
b) At a Grama Niladhari Office and a Public Place to be decided by the Board of Directors
when there is no Regional office /Region in the Regional office or Region and also
there is another business place of the same Society within the same Regional area and
there is no such a business place at the same location.
and
c) Provision of Electoral Registers to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development
and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province through the website
of the Society or, where there is no website of the Society, by a Compact Disc (CD) or
a Digital Video Disk (DVD) or a Flash (Pen) Drive or E-mail for the purpose of adding
into the website of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-western subject
to Electoral Regulation 55.4.
5.2 A notice containing dates and places of exhibition of Electoral Registers, how to submit appeals
as per Electoral Regulation 6.1 and Objections as per Electoral Regulation 7.1 should be
exhibited and published as follows in such a way as to attract a wide publicity. Such exhibition
and publication of notices should be performed at least 07 days prior to the due date for
exhibition of electoral registers.
a) Exhibition of notices in public places within the Electorate (within Regional area).
b) Exhibition in headquarters of the Society and on the notice board of the Office of the
Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of supervision of the Society.
c) Publishing advertisements in 02 National Daily Newspapers printed in Sinhala and Tamil.
6.1 In case a name of a member has not been included into the electoral register when he is
qualified to be included into the electoral register prepared as per electoral regulations 4.1
and 4.2, a member shall have the right to make a first appeal to through Secretary to the
Society, to the Board of Directors during the period from 11
th to 25th in the month of exhibiting
electoral registers as per the Electoral Regulation 5.1 for the purpose of getting his name
included into the Electoral Register. If the Board of Directors, having taken the appeals so
received into consideration, decides that a certain member’s name should be inserted into the
electoral register, the name in question shall be inserted into the electoral register on or
before 10
th of the month following the month of exhibition of the electoral registers.
6.2 When the Board of Directors receives an appeal from a member to insert his name into the
electoral register, the decision of the relevant Board of Directors on such appeal should be
sent to the member who submitted the appeal, by registered post, within 14 days of the receipt
of such appeal by the Society.
Exhibition of
Electoral
Registers
Making appeals
to include a name
into an electoral
register of
members

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
4A
6.3 Following procedure should be adopted on a second appeal submitted by a member.
(a). When a member does not receive a reply for an appeal made by him to the Board of
Directors to the effect that his name be inserted into the Electoral Register before 15 th
of the month following the month of exhibition of electoral registers or when a reply
has been sent by the Board of Directors to the appellant member that his request has
been rejected, the affected member may submit a second appeal to the Commissioner
of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western
Province for insertion of his name into the electoral register.
(b). Such an appeal should be submitted by the member during the period from 16
th to 25th of
the month following the month of exhibition of electoral registers. The Commissioner
of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western
Province should conduct an inquiry into the appeals so received and should intimate his
decision on the appeal to the appellant and the Board of Directors within 42 days of
receipt of such appeal, which is final and conclusive.
(c). The Board of Directors should take action to insert the name of a member into the
electoral register within 10 days from the date of intimation of the Commissioner of
Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western
Province to the Board of Directors that the name of such member should be included
into the electoral register in view of an appeal made by a member.
7.1 Any member has the right to make written objections to the Board of Directors through
Secretary to the Society on an inclusion of anybody’s name in the electoral register prepared
as per Electoral Regulations 4.1 and 4.2. Such an objection should be forwarded by a member,
together with reasons for making such an objection, from 11
th to 25th in the month of exhibiting
electoral registers as per the electoral regulation 5.1.
7.2 If it is decided to remove the name of anybody subjected to objections from the electoral
register after all objections so received being considered by the Board of Directors within 10
days from the final day for submission of objections as per the electoral regulation 7.1, the
Board of Directors should have taken action to follow under mentioned procedure before
removal of such a name from the electoral register.
(a). The persons against whom the objections are leveled should be kept informed of the
objections submitted and that the counter-objections, if any, to be submitted against
such objections should be forwarded by registered post. The same should be intimated
by the Board of Directors to the persons against whom the objections are leveled on or
before 05
th day of the month following the month of exhibition of the electoral registers
and the persons at the receiving end of the objections should be given a period of at
least 14 working days for submission of their counter-objections.
(b). If the Board of Directors decides to remove from electoral register the name against
which objections are leveled due to non-submission of counter-objections by such
persons against whom the objections are levelled or after taking the counter-objections
submitted into consideration, such decision by the Board of Directors should be notified,
by registered post, to the persons against whom objections are levelled and the member
who submitted objections before the final day of the month following the month of
exhibition of the electoral registers.
7.3 The matter should be intimated, by registered post, to the member who submitted the objection
when the Board of Directors rejects an objection submitted as per the electoral regulation7.1
Submission of
objections on a
name appearing in
the electoral
register of
members.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
and to the member who submitted the objection and to the member who submitted the counter-
objection when the counter-objection is accepted as per the electoral regulation 7.2. Such
intimation should be made before the final date of the month following the month of exhibition
of the electoral registers.
7.4 When a member who has submitted objections as per electoral regulation 7.1 against a name
appearing in the electoral register has been intimated that the said objection has been rejected
as per electoral regulation 7.3, or at an instance where no reply has been received even by the
end of the month following the month of exhibition of the electoral registers to the effect
that the objection submitted was accepted/rejected, the objection may be referred to the
Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-
western Province.
7.5 When the Board of Directors has intimated, as per electoral regulation 7.2.(b), of removal of
the name mentioned in the electoral register, or when no reply has been received from the
Board of Directors during a period of time specified in the electoral regulation 7.2.(b) on
counter-objections submitted as per the electoral regulation 7.2.(a), the member against whom
the objection has been levelled may refer an appeal against removal of his name from the
electoral register, to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-
operative Societies, North-western Province.
7.6 The members submitting objections and appeals referred to in electoral regulations 7.4 and
7.5 should submit them to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of
Co-operative Societies, North-western Province within 10 days from the final day of the
month following the month of exhibition of the electoral registers.
7.7 Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-
western Province, after making an enquiry into the objections/appeals submitted to him as
specified in electoral regulation 7.6, shall inform his decision thereon within 42 days of
receipt of such objection/ appeal, to the member who submitted the relevant objection / appeal
and to the Board of Directors and such decision on the part of Commissioner of Co-operative
Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province will be final.
7.8 When Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,
North-western Province has decided the name of a member should be inserted into the electoral
register as per an appeal made by a member in conformity with electoral regulation 7.5 or that
the name of any member should be removed from the electoral register in keeping with an
objection submitted by a member as per electoral regulation 7.4, the Board of Directors shall
take action to revise electoral registers in conformity with such decision of the Commissioner
of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western
Province within 10 days from the date of its intimation to the Board of Directors.
7.9 When the electoral registers have to be revised as per the electoral regulation 7.2(b), such
revision of electoral registers should be performed during the period specified at the electoral
regulation 7.8 for revision of electoral registers.
8.1 Electoral registers should be submitted to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in
charge of the Division for his certification in conformity with provisions under mentioned.
(a). With regard to the Regions for which appeals as per electoral regulations 6.1 and 6.3 (a)
or objections as per electoral regulations 7.1 and 7.4 have not been submitted, the
Submission of
electoral registers
to the
Commissioner

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
6A
electoral registers prepared as per electoral regulation 4.2 should, in triplicate, be
submitted, through the Divisional Officer of Co-operative Development in charge of
the Society, to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division.
(b). The revised electoral registers of Regions should be prepared in 04 copies as per
electoral regulations 6.1, 6.3 (c), 7.2 (b), 7.8 and 7.9, and 03 copies of such electoral
registers certified true and signed by the Chairman, a Director, the General Manager
and Secretary, should be submitted through the Divisional Officer of Co-operative
Development in charge of the Society to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives
in charge of the Division.
(c). Electoral registers referred to at regulations (a) and (b) above should be submitted to
the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division before the passage
of 04 months from the date of termination of the exhibition of electoral registers as per
electoral regulation 4.1. The Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the
Division, having certified 03 copies of electoral registers so submitted should keep a
copy at his possession and return the other 02 copies of the same to the Board of
Directors.
(d). Such electoral registers should conform to the format of the “electoral register”
appearing in a circular to be issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.
(e). Also, certificates signed by the Chairman, a Director, the General Manager and the
Secretary to the effect that the electoral registers have been prepared as per provisions
contained in this Code of Electoral Regulations, together with electoral registers to be
submitted as per Electoral Regulations 8.1 (a) and 8.1 (b) should be submitted to the
Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division. Such certificate should conform to
the format of the “certificate” appearing in first Schedule of this Code of Electoral
Regulations.
8.2 Action should be taken to elect Regional Committee Members for each Region in keeping
with electoral registers certified, as per electoral regulation 8.1.(c), by the Assistant
Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division or/and, in the form of electoral
registers prepared as per electoral regulation 8.3.
8.3 When the Regional Officer of Co-operative Development in charge of the Society or any
other officer has reported that any person / persons in charge of the responsibility of
preparation, certification or revision of electoral registers as per this Code of Electoral
Regulations has / have neglected his/their responsibility, the Assistant Commissioner of Co-
operative in charge of the Division should adhere to the following provisions.
(a).When the Board of Directors refrains from preparation of electoral registers as per electoral
regulation 4.1 or refrains from revision of electoral registers as per electoral regulations
6.3 (c) and 7.8 or refrains from certification of electoral registers as per electoral
regulation 8.1 or refrains from submission of electoral registers to the Assistant
Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division, the Assistant Commissioner
of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should take action to get electoral registers
prepared by an officer / officers of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-
western, certify them and elect members for Regional Committees in keeping with
electoral registers so certified. Electoral registers so certified should be submitted by
Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development to the Chief Polling Officer at
least 03 days prior to the due date for entertaining nominations of the Society.
Electoral registers
to be used for
election of
Regional
Committees
Action to be
taken by the
Commissioner
when the Society
is not preparing
electoral registers

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
(b). All employees of the Society including its Board of Directors, General Manager and
the Secretary are bound to provide the officer / officers of the Department of Co-
operative Development, North-western with all facilities required for preparation of
electoral registers as per paragraph (a) above. The relevant Society should also bear all
expenses to be made for preparation of electoral registers.
(c). At an instance when any electoral duty specified in the electoral regulation 8.3 has been
neglected, the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should
make arrangements to initiate performance of relevant electoral work through his officers
within a maximum period of 21 days from the final date stipulated by this Code of
Electoral Regulations for performance of electoral work so neglected.
8 (d). Soon after getting electoral registers prepared through his officers, the Assistant
Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should inform the same
immediately to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-
operative Societies, North-western. Accordingly, the Commissioner of Co-operative
Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western should determine
the days and places for exhibition of such electoral registers, submission of appeals to
insert a name not included in the electoral register or submission of objections on a
name already included and he should make public advertisements containing particulars
on such purposes in at least 02 national newspapers.
8.4 One out of the 02 copies of electoral registers sent certified by the Assistant Commissioner
of Co-operatives in charge of the Division as per the electoral regulation 8.1 (c), should be
submitted in writing by the Board of Directors to the Chief Polling Officer at least 03 days
prior to the date specified for entertaining nominations. The Chief Polling Officer should
hand over the electoral registers submitted to him as per electoral regulation 8.1 (c) or 8.3 (a)
to the Polling Officer / Assistant Polling Officer in charge of the Center at least before 7.00
a.m. on the day of entertaining nominations or the day of election.
8.5 Once the electoral duties are over either on the day of entertaining nominations or day of
election, the electoral register should be handed over by the Polling Officer / Assistant Polling
Officer in charge of the Center to the Chief Polling Officer. The Chief Polling Officer should
hand over electoral registers received as per electoral regulation 8.4, to the Secretary to the
Society and the electoral registers received as per electoral regulation 8.3 (a) to the Assistant
Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division within 03 days after the day of
entertaining nominations when no election was held by the use of such electoral registers and
within 03 days after the day of election in case an election was held.
8.6 The Secretary is entrusted with the responsibility of keeping safely in his charge at least for a
period of 01 year the electoral registers submitted to the Secretary by the Chief Polling
Officer as per electoral regulation 8.5. The Chief Polling Officer should keep safely the
electoral registers submitted to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of
the Division for a period of at least 06 months and the Assistant Commissioner in charge of
the Division may do whatever is deemed proper at his discretion on such registers after 06
months if no litigation has been initiated on the election.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
8A
PART  III
PRE-ELECTORAL  ORGANIZATIONS
9.1 Following information should be submitted to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives
in charge of the Division by Secretary to the Society 03 days prior to the date of termination
of the term of office of the General Assembly of the Society.
(a). The names of Polling Centers (Regions) where the Election is scheduled to be held and
the number of member voters attached to the Region as per electoral regulation 4.1
should be notified to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the
Division by the Secretary to the Society 03 months prior to the date of termination of
the term of office of General Assembly of the Society.
(b). When any polling area has no Region, the name of the Regional General Assembly
established, the name of Polling Center expected to be established, its address and the
number of member voters of the Regional General Assembly should be notified to the
Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division by the Secretary to
the Society in keeping with matters specified in electoral regulation 3(2) and paragraph
(a) above.
9.2 The date of entertaining nominations for election of Committee Members and the date of
election should be stipulated, as per the registered by-law, by the Commissioner of Co-operative
Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western province. Commissioner
of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western
province also exercises powers to revise the dates so specified without contravening the by-
law. Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,
North-western province should notify the dates to be specified or revised as per this electoral
regulation to the Assistant Commissioners in charge of the Division.
9.3 The Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division should intimate the dates pertaining to
entertaining nominations and election as per electoral regulation 9.2. to the Chief Polling
Officer appointed as per electoral regulation 10.1 (a) and to all Polling Officers in charge of
Centers, to Polling Officers, to Assistant Polling Officers and to the Secretary to the Society
as per electoral regulations 10.1 (a) and (b).
10.1 A Chief Polling Officer and other Polling Officers for a Society should be appointed by the
Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives as mentioned below.
(a). The Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division should appoint a Chief Polling
Officer at least a month before the date of entertaining nominations in Polling Centers
situated in a Division with respect to a Division mentioned in the electoral regulation
3.1.
(b). For a polling area mentioned in electoral regulation 3.1, a Polling Officer in charge of
the Center and a number of Assistant Polling Officers to be decided by the Assistant
Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division as required for the above said
Assistant Polling Officer should be appointed by the Assistant Commissioner of Co-
operatives in charge of the Division.
Specifying and
postponing the
day of
entertaining
nominations and
the day of
election
Appointment of
Polling Officers,
powers and
responsibilities of
Polling Officers
and steps to be
taken on activities
of Polling Officers
failing to perform
their duties

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
(c). The Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division may also appoint a number of
Polling Officers and Assistant Polling Officers required for assistance of the Chief
Polling Officer at his discretion in addition to the Polling Officers in charge of Centers
and Assistant Polling Officers.
(d). Letters of appointment for all posts mentioned in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this
electoral regulation should be issued in accordance with the format “a” of Schedule two
of this Code of Electoral Regulations.
10.2 At an instance when the activities mentioned in the Code of Electoral Regulations can not be
performed further due to death or resignation or an illness of a person appointed to any Polling
Division / Polling area as per electoral regulations (a), (b) and (c) in the course of performing
duties mentioned in electoral regulations or any other reason, it is lawful to perform the
activities of the officer who was unable to perform the duties under the Code of Electoral
Regulations by any officer appointed to the same Polling Division or Polling Area under the
electoral regulation 10.1 (a), (b) and (c) until an officer is appointed as per the Electoral
Regulation 10.3 for ensuring uninterrupted continuation of the activities to be performed as
per this Code of Electoral Regulations by the above said officer until such time an order is
issued on this matter by the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division.
At such an instance, the post of the officer who failed to perform his duties will be the same
as that of the officer currently performing his duties.
10.3 At such an instance, the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division
should take action forthwith either to appoint another officer to the post of the officer who
failed to perform activities specified in the Code of Electoral Regulations or to appoint the
same officer who is performing the duties in that post to it as per electoral regulation 10.2.
10.4 The Chief Polling Officer, Polling Officer in charge of Centers, Polling Officers and Assistant
Polling Officers appointed under electoral regulations 10.1 and 10.3 subject to electoral
regulation 10.2 may exercise powers specifically entrusted to them in this Code of Electoral
Regulations.
10.5 Chief Polling Officer and other Polling Officers appointed as per electoral regulations 10.1
and 10.3 or performing duties as per electoral regulation 10.2 are responsible for regular
performance of electoral activities referred to at this Code of Electoral Regulations as
mentioned below.
(a). Chief Polling Officer and Polling Officers / Assistant Polling Officers appointed to
assist him are responsible to the Commissioner for performance of all electoral work
in a proper and transparent manner from the moment the date for entertaining nominations
is notified to the Secretary up to the moment the relevant total result pertaining to
election of members to regional committees are notified to the Commissioner.
(b). Polling Officers in charge of Polling Centers / Assistant Polling Officers are responsible
to the Commissioner and Chief Polling Officer for lawful and transparent performance
of all electoral work from the moment of undertaking nominations in a polling center
up to the moment of notification of election results of that Center to the Chief Polling
Officer.
10.6 All facilities and full co-operation required to the Chief Polling Officer / Polling Officer in
charge of the Center / Polling Officers / Assistant Polling Officers for conducting the election
in conformity with this Code of Electoral Regulations should be provided by the entire staff
of the Society including the Board of Directors.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
10A
11.1 The Chief Polling Officer should inform the Secretary to the Society about the amount of
notices required and the date by which the printed forms of such notices should be returned
together with the dates on which nominations are entertained, dates on which objections against
such nominations are entertained and election held and their times and a specimen notice to
be exhibited for election of Regional Committees containing information of Polling Center
for conducting election duties, at least 04 weeks before the due date for entertaining
nominations in any polling Center.
11.2 It is the responsibility of the Secretary to submit the amount of notices as per the form specified
at the electoral regulation 11.1 to the Chief Polling Officer on or before the due date.
11.3 The notices submitted by the Secretary to the Chief Polling Officer as per electoral regulation
11.2 should be handed over in writing by the Chief Polling Officer to the General Manager
directing them to be exhibited in the Society headquarters, Polling Center, at populated
locations within Regional area, Grama Niladhari Offices and branches of Rural Bank and the
Office of the Assistant Commissioner in charge of supervision of the Society. General Manager
is entrusted with the full responsibility of exhibiting such notices at specified locations and
submitting written evidence confirming such exhibition of notices in the said locations.
11.4 It is the responsibility of Chief Polling Officer to make due provisions for exhibition of
notices to be exhibited as per electoral regulation 11.3 at least since 02 weeks prior to due
date for entertaining nominations and to ensure that such notices are exhibited at the specified
locations during the specified period of time.
12.1 Chief Polling Officer should make written directions to the General Manager to supply all
other stationery not covered by electoral regulation 11.1, the journal, ballot papers, ballot
boxes, cells in which preferences are marked and all forms to be submitted in printed form
required for the election work in the proper forms, sizes and on days stipulated for them to be
provided by him, at least 03 weeks before the due date for undertaking nominations in any
Polling Center.
12.2 It is the responsibility of the General Manager to provide everything directed for him to
supply by the Chief Polling Officer as mentioned in the electoral regulation 12.1 in due amounts
and on or before the due date, to the Chief Polling Officer.
12.3 It is the responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to follow under mentioned  procedure on
materials received as per electoral regulation 12.1.
(a). It is the responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to make due provisions to receive
from the General Manager everything specified in Electoral Regulation 12.1 at least a
week before the due date for entertaining nominations.
(b). It is the responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to hand over relevant items out of
those received as per paragraph (a) above to Polling Officers in charge of each center /
Assistant Polling Officers on the day of entertaining nominations.
(c). It is the responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to hand over relevant items out of
those received as per paragraph (a) above to Polling Officers in charge of each center /
Assistant Polling Officers on the day of election.
12.4 The Chief Polling Officer should inform the General Manager in writing the strength of staff
required on each day for the electoral duties of entertaining nominations and election, the
number of vehicles required together with transportation plan prepared for election days and
Exhibition of
notices on
entertaining
nominations and
conducting
election.
Provision of
stationery, forms,
staff of Society,
transport facilities
and other
requirements
pertaining to the
Election

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
minimum amounts of furniture and other items decided to be required in each polling center
at least 02 weeks before entertaining nominations for any polling center.
12.5 It is the responsibility of the General Manager to provide to the Chief Polling Officer the
staff and number of vehicles directed by the Chief Polling Officer as specified for each amount
and to provide each Polling Center with the furniture and equipment directed to be available in
each Polling Center on specified days  as stipulated in the electoral regulation 12.4
12.6 The Chief Polling Officer should determine the locations to which the staff of the Society
provided for the Chief Polling Officer for electoral work as per electoral regulation 12.5
should be attached and also letters of appointment should be issued by him to everybody in
the staff provided for him. That letter of appointment should conform to the form “a” of
Schedule three of this Code of Electoral Regulations.
12.7 Every item to be handed over to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling
Officer on the day of entertaining nominations as per electoral regulation 12.3 (b) should be
handed over in a form complying with the form for handing over stationery and equipment
contained in a currently valid circular issued as per the electoral regulation 51.1.
12.8 Every item to be handed over to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling
Officer on the day of election as per electoral regulation 12.3 (c) should be handed over in a
form complying with the form for handing over stationery and equipment contained in a
currently valid circular issued as per the electoral regulation 51.1.
13.1 Having received the number of Police Officers required for security of each Polling Center
for the purposes of entertaining nominations and election from the Regional Officer of Co-
operative Development at least 01 month prior to the date specified for calling nominations,
the Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should request from the Senior
Superintendent of Police in charge of the area, at least 04 weeks before the date specified for
calling nominations, to provide the required number of Police Officers from Sri Lanka Police.
PART  IV
NOMINATIONS
14.1 No member bearing disqualifications making it unable for him to be elected to a Regional
Committee of a Registered Co-operative Society as per currently valid Co-operative law has
the right to submit nominations as a candidate at an election held for electing members to a
Regional Committee.
14.2 It is the persons who are specified as unable to be elected to a Regional Committee of a Co-
operative Society registered in the Code of Co-operative Regulations currently in force, subject
to Co-operative laws currently in force who should be included as persons having no right to
submit nominations in the notice appearing in electoral regulation 11.1.
15.1 The name of a candidate elected for a Regional Committee should have been proposed by a
member of the Society and seconded by another member and the nomination paper should be
submitted in a form which conforms in every way to the form appearing in the electoral
regulation 15.4.
15.2 The Candidate, Proposer as well as the Seconder should be persons whose names appear in
the electoral register referred to at the electoral regulation 8.2.
Police security
required for the
election
Those who are
not entitled to
submit
nominations
How to prepare
nomination
papers

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
12A
15.3 The nomination paper should contain also the statements made by every candidate to the effect
that he is willing to appear as a candidate and that he has no disqualifications referred to at the
electoral regulation 14.1 and the statements made by the candidate, proposer and seconder to
the effect that they are members whose names appear in the electoral register of the Region
prepared as specified by electoral regulation 8.2.
15.4 The nomination paper should be prepared in 04 copies. Such nomination paper should
conform to the form “a” of the Schedule four of this Code of Electoral Regulations.
PART  V
ELECTORAL  WORK  ON  THE  DAY  OF  ENTERTAINING  NOMINATIONS
16.1 The nomination paper prepared in conformity with electoral regulations 15.1, 15.2, 15.3 and
15.4 should be submitted to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling
Officer by one of the three persons of candidate, proposer and seconder referred to at that
nomination paper only during the period from 9.00 a.m. to 10.00 a.m. at the due Polling
Center on the date specified for undertaking nominations for a Region.
16.2 After examining a nomination paper submitted, a Polling Officer in charge of a Center / an
Assistant Polling Officer should reject it only at the occasions under mentioned.
(I). At an instance when nominations have been submitted contrary to electoral regulations
15.1, 15.2, 15.3 and 15.4.
(II). At an instance when the nomination papers have been submitted in the form mentioned
in the electoral regulation 16.5.
16.3 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should make
arrangements immediately to publicly exhibit 02 copies of a nomination paper not rejected
by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer as per electoral
regulation 16.2 by sticking them on a suitable location in the Polling Center and securely
keep the remaining 02 copies of the nomination paper in his custody. Work on such sticking
of copies of un rejected nomination papers at a suitable place in the Polling Center for
exhibition should be completed before 10.01 a.m.
16.4 The nomination papers to be exhibited as per electoral regulation 16.3 should be exhibited
during the period from 10.01 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. The Polling Officer in charge of the Center /
Assistant Polling Officer should take action to remove nomination papers so exhibited after
11.00 a.m.
16.5 Nevertheless, no candidate has the right to submit another nomination paper when his
nomination paper has been accepted by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant
Polling Officer. At such a situation, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center /Assistant
Polling Officer should take action to reject all other nomination papers submitted by such
candidate except the nomination paper already accepted.
16.6 All particulars of nominations received by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant
Polling Officer should be noted by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant
Polling Officer in a form conforming to the form “a” specified at part i of the journal in a
circular currently valid and issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.
16.7 Particulars of nominations rejected as per electoral regulations 16.2 and 17.2 should be noted
by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer in a form conforming
Accepting and
rejecting
nomination
papers

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
to the form “b” specified at part i of the journal in a circular currently valid and issued as per
electoral regulation 51.1.
17.1 Any member whose name appears in the electoral register of the Region specified in the
electoral regulation 8.2 may submit, in writing, his objection on any nomination not rejected
by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer as per electoral
regulation 16.2, at the due Polling Center only from 10.01 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. on the date
allocated for undertaking nominations for that Region.
(a). Particulars of all objections received by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center /
Assistant Polling Officer should be noted by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center
/ Assistant Polling Officer in a form conforming to the form “c” specified at part i of
the journal in a circular currently valid and issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.
17.2 As per electoral regulation 17.1, a member may submit an objection on any nomination only
with regard to the following.
(a). The candidate having one or more of the disqualifications mentioned at electoral
regulations 14.1 and 14.2.
(b). When the name / membership number of the candidate, proposer or the seconder becomes
absent in the electoral register of the Region mentioned in electoral regulation 8.2.
(c). At an instance when a person other than the candidate or proposer or seconder has
submitted a nomination paper of any candidate to the Polling Officer in charge of the
Center / Assistant Polling Officer.
(d). At an instance when a nomination paper has been submitted in the manner specified in
electoral regulation 16.2.
17.3 If the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer accepts an objection
/ objections submitted by a member under electoral regulations 17.2 (b), 17.2 (c) and 17.2
(d), the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should reject the
nomination pertaining to such objection.
17.4 Having all objections submitted as per electoral regulations 17.1 and 17.2 been sealed, the
Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should submit such
objections the same day they were accepted, to the Chief Polling Officer.
17.5 All objections appearing in electoral regulations 17.2 (b), 17.2 (c) and 17.2 (d), should be
submitted by the Chief Polling Officer to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in
charge of the Division within 03 working days from the date of their receipt.
17.6 All objections submitted by members under electoral regulation 17.2 (a) should be sent by
the Chief Polling Officer to the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division within 03
working days from the day of undertaking such objections for the purpose of dispatching
them to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative
Societies, North-western Province.
Accepting
objections

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
14A
17.7 The Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should send such
objections submitted to him by the Chief Polling Officer as per electoral regulation 17.6,
together with his observations and recommendations, to the Commissioner of Co-operative
Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province.
17.8 Having conducted an enquiry into the objections received as specified in electoral regulation
17.2 (a) and the candidate against whom objections were levelled being given an opportunity
to submit his explanations, if the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar
of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province decides that such objections should be
accepted and still the candidate at the receiving end of objections has been appointed as a
Committee Member, the office of Committee Member of such member should be terminated
with effect from the time of acceptance of the relevant objection by Commissioner of Co-
operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province.
17.9 The decision of Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative
Societies, North-western Province as specified in the electoral regulation 17.8 is final and
conclusive.
17.10 No action should be taken on the following objections submitted by persons and the same
should be sent by the Chief Polling Officer to the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the
Division. The Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division should keep such objections
received by him in his trust up to passage of 06 months from the date of entertaining
nominations. Except at an instance where litigation is in progress before a court of law on
such objections, all such objections should be destroyed under supervision of the Assistant
Commissioner in charge of the Division after 06 months.
(a). Objections submitted by a person whose name does not appear in the electoral register
of the Region mentioned in the electoral regulation 8.2.
18.1 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center /Assistant Polling Officer should announce that
candidates have been elected uncontested to the Committee at following instances.
(a). Even when objections have been received under electoral regulation 17.2 (a) against
any nomination paper, if 05 to 09 nomination papers not rejected by him remain by
11.01 a.m. on the day of receipt of such objections, disregarding such objections, the
Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should declare by an
announcement that candidates of such nominations were elected uncontested.
18.2 The notification stating that candidates have been elected uncontested as per electoral regulation
18.1 should be prepared in duplicate. The notification should comply with the form “d”
appearing at Part i of the journal contained in the circular effective at the time and issued as
per electoral regulation 51.1.
19.1 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should announce that
no candidate has been elected as a Committee Member for a Region at following instances.
Announcing
uncontested
election of
candidates
Announcing that
Committee
Members were
not elected for the
Committee.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
(a). (I). When no nomination paper has been submitted
(II). When the number of nomination papers submitted amounts to a number equal to
or less than 04
     by 10.01 a.m. on the day of entertaining nominations
(b). (I). When the number of valid nomination papers falls below 05 due to rejection of
nomination papers by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling
Officer as per electoral regulations 17.2 (b), 17.2 (c) or 17.2 (d)
by 11.01 a.m. on the day of entertaining nominations
19.2 The announcement to be issued to the effect that no Committee Members were elected for
the Committee should be prepared in duplicate as per electoral regulation 19.1. The notification
should comply with the form “e” appearing at Part i of the journal contained in the circular
effective at the time and issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.
20.1 No candidate or any other person has the right to withdraw a nomination paper submitted to
the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / an Assistant Polling Officer.
21.1 In spite of objections received under electoral regulation 17.2 (a) for nomination papers by
11.01 a.m. on the day of entertaining nominations, a vote should be held for election of
Regional Committee Members for such a Polling Center when there are more than 09 un
rejected nomination papers inclusive of the above said nomination papers subjected to
objections and for this purpose the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling
Officer should take following action.
(a). A preferential number should be allocated by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center
/ Assistant Polling Officer for candidates pertaining to un rejected nomination papers
as per electoral regulation 21.1.
(b). Preferential numbers pertaining to each candidate should be allocated by drawing lots
and the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should make
arrangements to allocate such preferential numbers by using an amount of numbers
equal to the number of electoral candidates for drawing lots.
21.2 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should submit to the
Chief Polling Officer an announcement containing names of each of the electoral candidates
and preferential numbers allocated for them the same day of entertaining nominations.
21.3 The notification containing names of electoral candidates and their preferential numbers to
be submitted to the Chief Polling Officer as per electoral regulation 21.2 should be prepared
in duplicate. The notification should comply with the form “f” appearing at Part i of the journal
contained in the circular effective at the time and issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.
Withdrawal of
nomination paper
of a candidate
who submitted
nominations
Allocating
preferential
numbers

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
16A
PART VI
ELECTION
22.1 The Chief Polling Officer should intimate the Secretary to the Society in writing about the
number of notifications required and the due date for provision of printed copies of such
notifications together with names and preferential numbers of candidates, dates and times of
election and a specimen of the notification to be published regarding election which contains
particulars of polling centers of election, at least 05 days prior to the date due for election in
any polling center.
22.2 It is the responsibility of the Secretary to provide the Chief Polling Officer on or before the
due date with names of candidates of each Region submitted to him by the Chief Polling
Officer as per electoral regulation 22.1, with notifications containing preferential numbers
allocated for them and the number of notifications stipulated to be provided by separately
printing
22.3 The notifications submitted by the Secretary to the Chief Polling Officer should be submitted,
in writing, by the Chief Polling Officer to the General Manager regulating them to be exhibited
in the Polling Center, at populated locations in the Regional area, in GramaNiladhari Offices
and branches of Rural Bank. The General Manager is entrusted with the full responsibility of
exhibiting such notifications at the specified locations and during specified periods and
submission of written proof confirming exhibition of such notifications at the said locations.
22.4 It is responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to make provisions required to exhibit
notifications to be exhibited as per electoral regulation 22.3 at least 03 days prior to the date
due for election and to be confirmed that such notification are exhibited at specified locations
during the specified period.
23.1 Only in case of death of any candidate / candidates during the period between the time of issue
of a preferential number to a candidate / candidates by a Polling Officer in charge of a Center
/ an Assistant Polling Officer as per electoral regulation 21.1 and the time of commencement
of election, and the Chief Polling Officer has received specific confirmations in proof of
such death / deaths, it will be lawful for the Chief Polling Officer to take a following action.
(a). Making arrangements to remove name of the deceased candidate / candidates from the
list and public notification of such removal in the Polling Center.
                                                            and
(b). Invalidation of the election in case of a drop of the number of candidates to a number
between 05 and 09 pursuant to adherence to paragraph (a) above and announcing that the
remaining candidates have been elected uncontested.
or
(c). In case the number of candidates has dropped below 05 owing to adherence to paragraphs
(a) above, invalidation of the election and announcing that no candidate has been elected
for such a Region as a Committee Member
or
(d). Regular continuation of election if the number of candidates remains equal to or above
10 even after adhering to paragraph (a) above.
Exhibition of
notifications
containing names
and preferential
numbers of
candidates
Death of a
candidate who
has submitted
nominations

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
24.1 The Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should appoint a
Polling Officer in charge of the Center and a number of Assistant Polling Officers to assist
him for electoral work at each Polling Center. The Polling Officer in charge of the Center
is assigned with the major responsibility on successful completion of election at his
Polling Center.
24.2 The Chief Polling Officer should;
(a). Submit the amount of stationery and equipment mentioned in electoral regulation 12.1,
as determined by him, as required for the purpose of election based on the number of
members appearing in an electoral register pertaining to a Polling Center to the relevant
Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer prior to
commencement of election,
(b). Take action required for sufficient provision of the staff of the Society, vehicles, furniture
and equipment stipulated in the electoral regulation 12.4 as determined by him to be
required for ensuring effective performance of the election to each Polling Center,
(c). After receiving the exact numbers of staff to be appointed from the Society to each
Polling Center, issue letters of appointment required for attachment of such staff to
each Polling Center,
(d). Take any action deemed required for ensuring effective performance of the election as
per the powers vested in him by this Code of Electoral Regulations,
for electoral purposes at a Polling Center on the day of election.
25.1 A Polling Officer in charge of a Center / Assistant Polling Officer should;
(a). Make provisions required for confirmation of exhibition or/and exhibition as per
electoral regulations 44.1 and 44.2 of notifications referred to at electoral regulations
11.3, 16.3, 22.3 and 23.1 (a) of this Code of Electoral Regulations,
(b). Take action, before arrival at the Polling Center, to collect all stationery, ballot papers,
ballot boxes, ballot cell covers, equipment, staff and notifications in sufficient amounts
from the Chief Polling Officer,
(c). Take any action deemed necessary as assigned to him by this Code of Electoral
Regulations in terms of powers vested in him,
for the purpose of ensuring a highly transparent and lawful performance of electoral
work in a Polling Center on the day of election.
26.1 Every ballot paper should conform to form “a” specified in Schedule five of this Code of
Electoral Regulations.
26.2 Every such ballot paper should carry a printed number on its face which should also be printed
on the counterfoil of such ballot paper.
26.3 Every ballot paper should have been printed with the preferential numbers of all candidates in
the respective Polling Center.
Facilities to be
provided to the
Polling Center
Notifications to
be exhibited in a
Polling Center
and materials to
be taken to the
Polling Center
Contents to be
inserted in a ballot
paper

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
18A
27.1 Only the following persons are authorized to enter into and remain in the premises of the
Polling Center from 8.00 a.m. up to the termination of election on the day of election. No
other person is permitted to enter into or remain in the Polling Center during the period
mentioned above. The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officers
should take immediate action to remove any such unauthorized persons.
(a). The Commissioner
(b). Officers of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-western, authorized
by the Commissioner.
(c). Chief Polling Officer, Polling Officer in charge of the Center, Polling Officers, Assistant
Polling Officers
(d). Members of the staff of the Society attached, in writing, for duties at the relevant Polling
Center by the Chief Polling Officer.
(e). Manager and an employee of the relevant Region / Mini Co-op City / Co-op City, under
the authority of the Polling Officer in charge of the Center.
(f). Candidates at the Polling Center, members who proposed and seconded their names.
(g). Police Officers attached for electoral duties
(h). V oters (till they cast their vote)
(i). A person who has accompanied a physically handicapped voter (till the voter casts his
vote)
(j). Drivers / Driver Assistants who transported officers to the Polling Center
28.1 Election should commence and be terminated as follows.
(a). Election should commence at 9.00 a.m. on the date specified for the purpose and should
be terminated at 4.00 p.m. the same day.
(b). Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officers should take action
to commence and terminate election work at the times specified at paragraph (a) above.
29.1 Before commencement of election, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant
Polling Officer;
(a). Should point out that the ballot box is empty to a voter, candidates, proposers and seconders
of such candidates if they had come to the Polling Center at the time of preparation for sealing
the ballot box and, thereupon, should seal the ballot box before 9.00 a.m.
(b). Should seal the ballot box before 9.00 a.m. irrespective of any non-presence of anybody
referred to at paragraph (a) above at the time of sealing the ballot box.
30.1 Only one ballot paper should be issued to each voter subject to electoral regulation 33.1.
30.2 Anybody whose name appears as a voter in the electoral register prepared as per electoral
regulation 8.2 has the right to receive a ballot paper by producing one of the following valid
Those who are
authorised to
enter into and
remain in a Polling
Center
Period of Election
Sealing the ballot
boxes and
commencement of
election
Issue of ballot
papers

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
identify cards to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer. However
a person who is producing an identity in such an unclear condition that its photograph can not
be identified and /or the contents printed on it are illegible has no right to receive a ballot
paper.
(a). National Identity Card
(b). Valid Driving License
(c). V alid Passport
(d). Pensioners’ Identity Card issued by the Director of Pensions
(e). Elders’ Identity Card issued by the Secretary to the Region
(f). A v alid Identity Card issued to the monks / priests by Ministry of Religious Affairs or a
State Department in charge of Religious Affairs
30.3 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center or an Assistant Polling Officer working under his
direction should issue a ballot paper to a voter reaching him. However, before such an issue of
a ballot paper;
(a). The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should receive
an identity card specified at electoral regulation 30.2 and verify whether the name of
the said Identity Card and the one appearing in the electoral register are the same.
(b). After adhering to the paragraph (a) above, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center /
Assistant Polling Officer should loudly read out the name appearing in the electoral
register handed over to him.
(c). In case an objection is raised on issue of a ballot paper to any voter by a candidate / a
proposer or a seconder of a name of a candidate in adhering to paragraph (a) above, the
Polling Officer in charge of the Center should decide whether or not a ballot paper
should be issued to the voter against whom such an objection was raised.
(d). The Polling Officer in charge of the Center should determine whether a seal of the
Polling officer in charge of the Center or an Assistant Polling Officer or any other seal
should be placed on a ballot paper and accordingly, such seal should be placed on all
ballot papers to be issued to voters.
(e). For easy identification of an issue of a ballot paper to a voter, the Polling Officer in
charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should place a mark in front of the name
of the voter appearing in the electoral register to whom such ballot paper was issued
(eg : - ).
31.1 The voter may take action to proceed with the ballot paper provided to him as per electoral
regulation 30.3 to the covering cell allocated for marking vote and mark his preference secretly
in such a way as not to be seen by anybody as per electoral regulations 31.2 and 31.3.
31.2 A voter has right to mark a maximum of 09 preferences for 09 candidates in order of a single
preference to a candidate on the ballot paper issued to him

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
20A
31.3 The voter may cast his vote by marking a cross mark (eg:-X) on the box opposite the preference
number of candidates appearing on the ballot paper issued to him.
31.4 Soon after marking his vote, the voter should fold the ballot paper so that the preference
marked is invisible to anybody, insert his ballot paper to the ballot box placed in front of the
Polling Officer in charge of the Center and exit the Polling Center without delay.
32.1 How to mark the preference should be explained to a voter as follows.
(a). When any voter requests the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling
Officer to explain how to mark his preference, such officers may explain such voter
how to mark his preference in such a way as to be audible to everybody.
(b). However, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer
shouldmake it a point to refrain from giving any instruction or guidance to a voter
amounting to a direct or indirect insinuation to cast or not to cast his vote to any particular
candidate through such explanations.
32.2 When any voter is unable to mark his vote by himself due to blindness or any other physical
disability the Polling Officer in charge of the Center should mark the ballot paper of the voter
before an Assistant Polling Officer in the exact manner requested by the voter and thereafter
should also take action to insert such preference marked ballot paper into the ballot box.
32.3 Except as per electoral regulation 32.2, at no other occasion should the Polling Officer in
charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should allow any other person to mark the
preference of a voter or remain at the spot allocated for marking preferences.
33.1 When the ballot paper issued to the voter for casting his vote has turned out to be one that can
not be used as a valid ballot paper due to his inattention, the voter should hand over the ballot
paper used inattentively to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center and request the Polling
Officer in charge of the Center to issue him with a new ballot paper. At such instances, a new
ballot paper may be issued to the voter at the discretion of the Polling Officer in charge of the
Center.
33.2 Simultaneously with the issue of a new ballot paper as per electoral regulation 33.1 the ballot
paper used inattentively which has been handed over to him by the voter, which will be identified
as a spoilt ballot paper hereafter in this Code of Electoral Regulations, should be invalidated
and kept safely in his charge. Spoilt ballot papers should not be inserted into the ballot box.
33.3 Only once may a voter submit a spoilt ballot paper and receive a new ballot paper.
34.1 No voter should be issued with a ballot paper after 4.00 p.m., which is the time specified for
termination of election. However, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center should allow all
voters who remain in the Polling center having been issued with ballot papers on or before
4.00 p.m. to cast their vote.
34.2 Soon after completion of casting vote by all voters as per electoral regulation 34.1, the Polling
Officer in charge of the Center should prepare a ballot paper account complying with form
“a” specified at Schedule six of this Code of Electoral Regulations.
Assisting a voter
to mark his vote
Spoilt ballot
papers
Termination of the
election

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
PART VII
COUNTING VOTES
35.1 V otes pertaining to the election should be counted in the same Polling Center where the
election was held.
36.1 As per the electoral regulation 34.2, only the following persons are authorized to enter into
and remain in a Polling Center from the time of termination of election up to the time of
announcement of election results. No other person except them is permitted to enter into or
remain in a Polling Center during the above said period. Polling Officer in charge of the
Center / Assistant Polling Officer should take action to remove from the Polling Center any
unauthorized persons entering into or / and remaining in the Polling Center during the above
mentioned period.
(a). The Commissioner
(b). Officers of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-western authorized
by the Commissioner
(c). Chief Polling Officer, Polling Officer in charge of the Center, Polling Officers,
Assistant Polling Officers
(d). Staff members of Society attached for duties at the relevant Polling Center by the
Chief Polling Officer by a letter.
(e). The Manager and an employee of the relevant Region / Mini Co-op City / Co-op City
of the Polling Center, under permission of the Polling Officer in charge of the Center.
(f). Candidates of the Polling Center, Members who proposed and seconded their names.
(g). Police Officers attached for election duties
37.1 Soon after preparing the ballot paper account and confirmation of its accuracy as per electoral
regulation 34.2, counting work of the ballot papers in the ballot box / boxes should be started.
37.2 Before the number of votes each candidate has secured is counted by the Counting Officer;
(a). All ballot papers should be taken out by opening the ballot box when there is only one
ballot box in the Polling Center. Thereupon, all such ballot papers taken out should be
counted.
(b). All ballot papers should be taken out by opening each of the ballot boxes when there are
more than one ballot box in the Polling Center. Thereupon, all such ballot papers taken
out should be counted.
(c). It should be ensured that the total number of ballot papers taken by such counting is
equal to the number of ballot papers issued to voters appearing in the ballot paper account
prepared as per electoral regulation 34.2
(d). If, for any reason, the number of ballot papres does not tally as per paragraph (c) above,
all ballot papers should be re-counted.
Counting center
Persons with right
to be present at
the Counting
Center.
Counting ballot
papers in ballot
boxes

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
22A
(e). In case the same result occurs twice in counting ballot papers in the ballot box / boxes,
the result obtained at such counting of ballot papers should be deemed correct
disregarding the figures mentioned in the ballot paper account.
38.1 Under mentioned ballot papers should be rejected by the Counting Officer. When the Counting
Officer takes a decision to reject any ballot paper, such decision becomes final.
(a). A ballot paper with no preference marked.
(b). A ballot paper with more than 09 preferences marked.
(c). A ballot paper with no certain indication by the mark the voter has placed on it as to
which candidate the he has marked his preference.
(d). A ballot paper determined to be a fake or forged one by the Counting Officer.
(e). A disfigured ballot paper
(f). A ballot paper decided by the Counting Officer to be rejected for a reason not mentioned
above.
38.2 If there are candidates, proposers and seconders of candidates in the Polling Center, the rejected
ballot paper should be indicated to them and the Counting Officer should also state the reason
for rejecting the ballot paper.
38.3 Soon after rejecting any ballot paper, the Counting Officers should note the words “rejected”
clearly on the face of the ballot paper so rejected and place his signature.
38.4 The Counting Officer should keep all rejected ballot papers safely in his charge till submission
to the Chief Polling Officer.
39.1 After confirmation of the number of correct ballot papers contained in the ballot box / ballot
boxes as per the electoral regulation 37.2 (c) or 37.2 (e), the ballot papers to be rejected as
per electoral regulation 38.1 and the ballot papers valid for counting which, hereinafter, are
called valid ballot papers, should be separated.
39.2 Thereafter, the Counting Officer should mark separately the number of votes secured by each
candidate opposite the name of each of them in the form provided for marking votes, by way
of an oblique line [(/)or(\)]appearing in black or blue color.
(a). After marking the total number of votes received through all ballot papers, the total
number of votes secured by each candidate should be collected and marked in front of
the name of each of such candidates.
(b). Thereafter the Counting Officer should prepare an official register of election results
in a sequential order of the number of votes secured by each of the candidates so that
the name of the candidate who secured the highest number of votes appears at the
beginning and the name of the candidate who secured the lowest number of votes appears
at the end.
Ballot papers to
be rejected
Counting the
number of votes
secured by each
candidate

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
39.3 When votes have been received in a manner not mentioned in the electoral regulation 39.2(b),
the Counting Officer should adhere to the following to determine the order of candidates.
(a). Order of candidates should be determined by drawing lots at the instances under mentioned.
I. For all candidates when all of them have received the same number of votes
II. For relevant candidates when there are 02 or more candidates with the same number of votes
received.
(b). When no candidate has secured a single vote, the preferential numbers assigned to each of the
candidates should be applied to determine the order of candidates.
39.4 It is lawful to assign any power or function vested in or assigned to a Counting Officer to an
Assistant Polling Officer serving under his supervision and directions and to get such works
performed by them.
39.5 The determ ination given by the Counting Officer on any ballot paper as well as on any issue
arisen at the counting of votes is final and conclusive.
40.1 Only any candidate present in the Counting Center at the relevant moment, a person proposed
or seconded them has the right to request the Counting Officer for a recount of votes before
signing the prepared results sheet as per electoral regulations 39.2 (b) and 39.3.
40.2 However, only once may a request be made for a recount of votes in any Polling Center as per
electoral regulation 40.1 and the relevant request should be submitted to the counting officer
in writing.
40.3 At a recount, the Polling Officer should re-mark in red color the symbol of oblique line
placed in blue or black color previously on the form of marking votes so as the previous mark
to be replaced with the cross (X) mark.
40.4 At a recount subject to the electoral regulation 40.3, the Counting Officer should adhere to
all provisions contained in electoral regulation 39.2.
40.5 The determination of the Counting officer should be conclusive and final with regard to any
matter arisen on a recount.
40.6 Before making a request for a recount as per electoral regulation 40.1, the person making
such a request for a recount should pay the amount specified to be paid at a recount by a
currently valid circular as issued by the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and
Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western and receive a receipt. In case the amount
specified at this regulation is not paid at the moment of making the request for recount, the
Polling Officer in charge of the Center should not make a recount.
Re-counting votes
secured by each
candidate

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
24A
PART  VIII
ANNOUNCEMENT  OF  ELECTION  RESULTS
41.1 Soon after preparation of the official results sheet as per electoral regulation 39.2 (b), 39.3
or 40.4, the Counting Officer should take action to announce official results and clearly display
the names of candidates elected as Committee Members in the Polling Center. However, the
Counting Officer should make such an official announcement of the electoral results as follows.
(a). When the number of candidates who secured preferences as per the official results
sheet exceeds 10, the 09 candidates who had scored the highest number of votes should
be declared as elected Committee Members.
                                          or
(b). If only a number of candidates between 05 and 09 have received votes as per the official
results sheet, such candidates should be declared as elected Committee Members.
                        or
(c). When no candidate has received any vote as per the official results sheet or only a
number of candidates below 05 have scored any vote, it should be declared that no
candidate has been elected as a Committee Member.
41.2 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should announce official
results and, where Committee Members have been elected to the Region, should intimate the
names, membership numbers, addresses and a register containing the number of votes secured,
to the Secretary to the Society and the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of
the Division through the Chief Polling Officer.
41.3 The Secretary to the Society should take action to clearly exhibit in the head office the names
of candidates elected as Regional Committee Members submitted to him by the Chief Polling
Officer.
41.4 The Official Election Results Register and the notification on the candidates elected as referred
to at electoral regulation 41.2 should be prepared in duplicate. Such notification should
conform to form “a” in Part ii of the journal in a currently valid circular issued as per electoral
regulation 51.1.
PART IX
MISCELLANEOUS  INFORMATION
42.1 All disruptive events taken place relating to the election in the election center or / and around
the premises of election center during the period under mentioned on the days of performing
activities referred to in this Code of Electoral Regulations should be reported through the
Chief Polling Officer to the Commissioner by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center /
Assistant Polling Officer.
(a). All events of disturbance taken place from the time of proceeding to the polling center
to undertake nominations up to the moment of exit from the election center,
(b). All events of disturbance taken place from the time proceeded to the polling center for
election up to the moment of exit from the election center.
Announcement of
official results
Reporting
disturbances

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
42.2 The report to be prepared on the events of disturbance as referred to at electoral regulation
42.1 (a) should be prepared in duplicate. Such report should conform to form “g” in Part i of
the journal in a currently valid circular issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.
42.3 The report to be prepared on the events of disturbance as referred to at electoral regulation
42.1 (b) should be prepared in duplicate. Such report should conform to form “b” in Part ii of
the journal in a currently valid circular issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.
43.1 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center should take action to control, through police
officers attached to his polling center, all events of disturbance taking place within the premises
of election center on the day of entertaining nominations or the day of election.
43.2 When the situation of the disturbance has grown to such a level that it can not be kept under
control even through police officers, The Polling Officer in charge of the Center should
inform all particulars to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of
Co-operative Societies, North-western Province, or where he can not be contacted, to the
Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division, and follow instructions
and directions received by them.
44.1 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center should use the Code of Procedure of the Polling
Officer in charge of the Center in performance of electoral work as per this Code of Electoral
Regulations.
44.2 The Code of Procedure of the Polling Officer in charge of the Center containing 02 parts
called journal in this Code of Electoral Regulations should be used as follows.
(i) Part i of the journal - should be used on the day of undertaking nominations.
(ii) Part ii of the journal  - should be used on the day of election.
44.3 The minimum particulars to be contained in the journal are given below. At least the minimum
particulars referred to at Schedule seven should be contained in the journal and the journal to
be used by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center should be introduced by a circular to be
issued by the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative
Societies, North-western Province, as per electoral regulation 51.1.
44.4 It is l awful to issue a circular for the purposes of inclusion of a new item into the journal or
for revision or repeal  of an item so included at the discretion of the Commissioner of Co-
operative Societies and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province, in
addition to the minimum particulars mentioned in Schedule seven, subject to rules specified
in this Code of Electoral Regulations.
44.5 The journal should be prepared in the form of a book. Separate books should be prepared
for part i and part ii of the journal. The first copy of the forms in the journal should come in
white color and the second copy in either yellow or pink color.
45.1 All notices and forms stipulated to be printed in this Code of Electoral Regulations should
be printed in Sinhala.
Procedure to be
followed in a
disturbance
Journal
The medium in
which notices and
forms should be
printed

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
26A
45.2 However, all forms, notices and ballot papers with direct relevance to voters in Polling Centers
with members using Tamil as their mother tongue should be printed in both languages of
Sinhala and Tamil.
46.1 This Code of Electoral Regulations has no relevance in filling vacancies of Committee
Members occurring during the term of office of Committees after election of Regional
Committee Members as per this Code of Electoral Regulations or in filling vacancies of
Committee Members occurring as per this Code of Electoral Regulations. At such instances,
the vacancies occurring in Committees should be filled in keeping with the registered by-law
of the Society.
47.1 At an instance of a problem occurred on any matter pertaining to electoral work not referred
to in this Code of Electoral Regulations, any person should follow the written directives
made by Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,
North-western Province on such problem arisen. Such directives made by Commissioner of
Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province
are final and conclusive.
48.1 All expenses to be made on appointment of Regional Committee Members as per this Code
of Electoral Regulations should be incurred by the Society.
48.2 Relevant persons should take action to strictly adhereto  all regulations stipulated in this
Code of Electoral Regulations as observable by the Board of Directors or a person in the staff
or the Society. Further, where it is not specifically stated in this Code of Electoral Regulations
about the exact person in the Society who should observe certain rules to be observed by a
Society, the Board of Directors is entrusted with the responsibility of following all such
rules.
48.3 At an instance of non-adherence to a regulation / rules stipulated in this Code of Electoral
Regulations as observable by the Board of Directors, an Officer / Employee of the Society
subject to provisions referred to at the electoral regulation 8.3, the same should be intimated
forthwith, in writing, to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division
and Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,
North-western by the Regional Officer of Co-operative Development in charge of the Society
or the Chief Polling Officer. Then the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division, on
instructions of the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative
Societies, North-western, should take action necessary to perform the functions neglected
by the Board of Directors / Officers / Employees for unhindered continuation of electoral
work. The Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should take
action to initiate the relevant electoral work within a maximum period of 14 days from the
final day stipulated by this Code of Electoral Rules for performance of electoral work so
neglected under electoral regulation 8.3 (c).
(a). Nevertheless, at a time it is observed that the electoral work referred to at this Code of
Electoral Regulations can not be performed on due dates in case the neglected electoral
work were initiated within 14 days as specified in this electoral regulation, the Assistant
Commissioner in charge of the Division should take action necessary to initiate relevant
electoral work within a duration of less than 14 days.
Irrelevance of the
Code of Electoral
Regulations to fill
vacancies of
Committee
Members
occuring in
course of the
office of Regional
Committees
Procedure to be
followed with
reference to
matters not
referred to in the
Code of Electoral
Regulations
At an instance of
non-adherence to
a regulation /
rules stipulated in
the Code of
Electoral
Regulations by
the Board of
Directors and
Staff of the
Society

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
48.4 The Society is committed to pay all expenses to be incurred by the Department of Co-operative
Development, North-western due to its work done in conformity with electoral regulations
8.3 or / and 48.3. If the Society neglects making such payments, the Commissioner is authorized
to settle such payments from any amount of money payable to the said Society by the
Department of Co-operative Development, North-western.
49.1 It is the Polling Officer in charge of the center who functions as the officer in charge of the
polling center on respective days who should perform duties as the officer in charge of election
work on the day of entertaining nominations, as the officer in charge of the election with
regard to the election on the day of election and as counting officer with regard to counting
votes and announcement of results.
49.2 At times of change of  the designation of the Polling Officer in charge of the Center as stated
above, the duties and designations of the staff attached to the Polling Officer in charge of the
Center should also change accordingly.
50.1 Amending an Electoral Regulation contains addition of any new electoral regulation / Schedule/
form  to this Code of Electoral Regulations or revision, repeal of any valid electoral regulation
/ schedule / a form referred to at a schedule.
50.2 An electoral regulation should be amended only by publishing the same in a gazette by
Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-
western.
51.1 It is lawful for Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative
Societies, North-western to issue instructions, rules, forms and checklists not pertaining to a
Schedule subject to electoral regulations 44.2 and 44.3 to under mentioned persons on
procedures, by-laws to be followed to ensure a higher level of regularity and transparency in
performance of functions stipulated by this Code of Electoral Regulations and matters
incidental thereto.
(a). Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division, Chief Polling
Officer, Polling Officers in charge of the Centers, Polling Officers and Assistant Polling
Officers
(b). Board of Directors, General Manager and Secretary
51.2 Nevertheless, provisions specified in a circular issued as per the specifications in the Electoral
Regulation 51.1 should never be inconsistent with a provision contained in a regulation in this
Code of Electoral Regulations.
51.3 No instruction, rule, form or a checklist contained in a circular issued as per the electoral
regulation 51.1 needs to be considered as an amendment to an electoral regulation of this
Code of Electoral Regulations.
51.4 However, it should be taken into account that provisions and forms contained in a circular
issued in conformity with electoral regulation 51.1 will be as effective and valid for electoral
work as an electoral regulation specified in this Code of Electoral Regulations.
Officers who should
perform duties of
the Officer in
charge of Electoral
work, Officer in
charge of Election,
Counting Officer
Amending an
electoral
regulation
Instances when
the Commissioner
is authorized to
issue instructions
and directives by
circulars

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
28A
52.1 Anytime a provision contained in a Co-operative Society Act / Charter, a Code or Regulations
of Co-operative Societies or an amendment thereof contravenes a provision contained in any
electoral regulation contained in this Code of Electoral Regulations,  the provisions of the
currently valid Co-operative Society Act / Charter, a Code or Regulations of Co-operative
Societies or amendments thereof should be effective over and above provisions of the above
said electoral regulation.
53.1 If no litigation has been initiated on the election or no complaint has been received, the
Secretary of the Society is entrusted with the responsibility of safekeeping any document /
form pertaining to electoral work of the Society submitted to the Secretary to the Society by
the Chief Polling Officer / Polling Officers in charge of the Centers / Polling Officers /
Assistant Polling Officers at least for a period of 01 year with effect from the date of
termination of electoral work. However, the Secretary to the Society is also entrusted with
the responsibility of safekeeping all documents/forms pertaining to the election at least for a
period of 06 months from the termination of activities relating the litigation/complaint when
litigation has been commenced or a complaint received on the said election.
53.2 If no litigation has been initiated on the election or no complaint has been received, the
Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division is entrusted with the
responsibility of safekeeping any document / form pertaining to electoral work of the Society
submitted to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division by the
Chief Polling Officer / Polling Officers in charge of the Centers / Polling Officers / Assistant
Polling Officers at least for a period of 06 months with effect from the date of termination of
electoral work. However, the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division
is also entrusted with the responsibility of safekeeping all documents/forms pertaining to the
election at least for a period of 06 months from the termination of activities relating the
litigation/complaint when litigation has been commenced or a complaint has been received
on the said election.
54.1 For regular performance of electoral duties referred to at this Code of Electoral Regulations,
checklists mentioned in Schedule 8 should be used to clearly identify durations within which
such electoral duties should be performed and persons responsible for their performance.
(a). Only when it is observable that there is a difference between the period of time during
which any electoral work referred to at this Code of Electoral Regulations has to be
completed and the periods of time referred to at the checklists in Schedule 8 in relation
to the same electoral work, it is lawful to abide by periods of time corresponding to the
purpose as referred to at Schedule 8 as valid in performance of electoral work over and
above any rule stipulated with regard to periods of time pertaining to such electoral
work at any other place in this Code of Electoral Regulations.
(b). It is lawful to supervise the performance of any electoral work referred to at Schedule 8
by persons stipulated by the said Schedule in the manner stipulated in it and to make
pertinent provisions expeditiously for proper performance of relevant electoral work
through persons responsible for such performance when it is observed that the Board of
Directors of the Society / Chairman / a Director / the General Manager / Secretary are
neglecting any electoral work referred to at this Code of Electoral Regulations and if
even after taking such steps, it is observed that the relevant person / persons are neglecting
performance of electoral work, to keep the Commissioner of Co-operative Development
and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western and the Assistant Commissioner
of Co-operatives in charge of the Division informed of the same without delay, and it is
the responsibility of the relevant Supervisor.
Instances when
certain laws
become effective
over regulations
contained in the
Code of Electoral
Regulations
Period and
responsibility of
safekeeping
documents
pertaining to
Election.
Using checklists
for  electoral work

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
55.1 It is lawful to for the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of
Co-operative Societies, North-western Province, to take any action or make a direction which
is not inconsistent with provisions of this Code of Electoral Regulations and is understood by
him to be suitable for a specific period of time through a paper advertisement for the purpose
of implementation of provisions in this Code of Electoral Regulations or of making
administrative changes required for the same purpose during the year of publication of this
Code of Electoral Regulations in the Gazette.
55.2 If the By-law of any Society contains a rule explaining that Regional Committees should be
elected according to a Code of Electoral Regulations repealed by the Electoral Regulation
56.1 with a specific reference to its title, Gazette number and date, the said repealed Code of
Electoral Regulations should become further valid and effective only for electoral work of
such a Society
(a). However, validation of a repealed Code of Electoral Regulations for a certain Society
as referred to at the electoral regulation 55.2 will be effective only for a maximum
period of a year to come with effect from the date this code of electoral regulations
became effective for North-western Province.
55.3 In case of a difficulty arisen in implementing any electoral work following the code of electoral
regulations repealed by the electoral regulation 56.1 together with an electoral work contained
in this code of electoral regulations by the effective date of this code of electoral regulations
for North-western Province, it is lawful for the Commissioner of Co-operative Development
and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province to adhere to electoral
regulation 51.1.
55.4 Irrespective of whatever mentioned in electoral regulations 5.1 (c), when it appears to the
Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-
western Province that there is any practical difficulty in following such electoral regulations,
it is lawful for him to take action to temporarily suspend operation of rules contained in such
electoral regulations with respect to a certain Society for a maximum period of 02 years with
effect from the date this Code of Electoral Regulations became effective for North-western
Province.
56.1 Regulations on Election of a Regional Committee in a Multipurpose Co-operative Society
and Colombo-North and Colombo-South Co-operative Societies as published in the Gazette
Extraordinary Number 297/7 of 28.12.1977 of the Republic of Sri Lanka and the revised
regulations published by amending those regulations in the Gazette Extraordinary number
707/14 of 27.03.1992 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Regulations
on Election of Regional Committees in Co-operative Societies in North-western Province
published in the Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) number 1906/44 of 19.03.2015
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka are hereby repealed with effect from the
date of Gazette Extraordinary of this Code of Electoral Regulations. Such repealed regulations
will be called Repealed Code of Electoral Regulations in this Code of Electoral Regulations.
56.2 However it should be admitted that provisions and schedules of the above said repealed code
of electoral regulations will remain further valid and effective only for all facts, statements,
documents, certified copies and litigations remaining before the Board of Directors of a
Multipurpose Co-operative Society of North-western Province or Commissioner of Co-
operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province or
a court of law on electoral work by the effective date of this Code of Electoral Regulations,
with no prejudice whatsoever to the matters arisen or/and decided under a repealed code of
electoral regulations referred to at electoral regulation 56.1 above.
Interim provisions
Repeal of old
electoral
regulations

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
30A
57.1 If no different meaning is required on the words in this Code of Regulations;
(i). Society means; a Multipurpose Co-operative Society pertaining to the election registered
under a valid Co-operative Law.
(ii). Member, Region, Regional Committee Member, Regional Committee, Regional area,
General Assembly, Chairman, Vice Chairman, Director, Board of Directors, General
Manager, Secretary and area of Society means; the same meaning rendered for them in
the registered By-law of Society.
(iii). Officers, Employees and Staff of Society means; the employees under the meaning
referred to at the Charter of the Commission of Co-operative Employees, North-western
Province.
(iv). Commissionermeans; Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of
Co-operative Societies, North-western Province, Deputy Commissioner of Co-operative
Development, an Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development.
(v). Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division means; Assistant Commissioner of
Co-operative Development in charge of an office of the Assistant Commissioner of
Co-operatives established in North-western Province in charge of supervisory
responsibility of Society.
(vi). Regional Officer of Co-operative Development means ; an officer of the Department
of Co-operative Development, North-western, appointed by the Assistant Commissioner
of Co-operative Development in charge of the Division to work in charge of supervisory
functions in Society.
(vii). Chief Polling Officer means; an officer of the Department of Co-operative Development,
North-western entrusted with the performance of and bearing the key responsibility of
the duties of Chief Polling Officer of the Society as stipulated in the Code of Electoral
Regulations.
(viii). Polling Officer in charge of the Center means; an officer of the Department of Co-
operative Development, North-western in charge of electoral work in a center  of the
Society and entrusted with the key responsibility of such duties.
(ix). Polling Officer and Assistant Polling Officer means ; an officer of the Department of
Co-operative Development, North-western appointed by the Assistant Commissioner
of Co-operatives in charge of the Division for the purpose of assisting the Chief Polling
Officer or/and Polling Officer in charge of the Center in Society.
(x). that the words in masculine gender will also include words in feminine gender as
applicable.
(xi). that the words in singular form also mean the plural form and vice-versa.
(xii). Electoral work means; all official work pertaining to the election performed/to be
performed from the date specified for preparation of electoral registers in each Region
of the Society up to the moment the relevant officers referred to at this Code of Electoral
Regulations notify the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division and Secretary
to the Society the official electoral results to the effect of election or non-election of
all Regional Committee Members.
Definition

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
(xiii). an electoral regulation means; a Section contained in the Code of Electoral Regulations,a
Sub-section, paragraph and a schedule thereof.
(xiv). Code of Electoral Regulations means; a combination of the entirety of electoral
regulations, Schedules and forms contained in schedules.
(xv). Co-operative law effective during the current period means; an Act/Charter of Co-
operative Societies, a Code of Regulations of Co-operative Societies or any law enacted
therefor as applicable for North-western Province.
(xvi). A printing means; a printing made by any printing machine other than a Roneo machine.
(xvii). V oter means; any member whose name is inserted as a voter in the electoral register
referred to at the electoral regulation 8.2.
(xviii). Polling Center means; a place for undertaking nominations and objections as well as a
place where a voter casts his vote, votes so cast by voters are counted and results are
issued.
(xix). Polling Center premises means; the building where the polling center is situated, its
land and also other buildings on such land.
(xx). Gazette means; the Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
57.2 Only the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,
North-western Province is authorized to define any electoral regulation or a word or a letter
or a figure or a symbol contained in an electoral regulation of this Code of Electoral Regulations
and such a definition made by him is final and conclusive.
58.1 In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts in this Code of Electoral
Regulations, Sinhala text should prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail at an
inconsistency.

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
32A
LIST  OF  SCHEDULES
Schedule Name of the schedule Part Electoral
Order
Schedule 1 Certificate to be furnished by the Society in submission of
Electoral Register to the Assistant Commissioner of
Co-operatives in charge of the Division. ii 8.1 (e)
Schedule 2 The letters of appointment to be issued to Election Officers
Form “A” by the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives iii 10.1 (d)
Schedule 3 Letters of appointment to be issued to staff of the Society
Form “A” by the Chief Polling Officer iii 12.6
Schedule 4 Nomination sheet
Form “A” iv 15.4
Schedule 5 ballot sheet
Form “A” vi 26.1
Schedule 6 ballot sheet account
Form “A” vi 34.2
Schedule 7 minimum facts to be contained in a journal ix 44.3
Schedule 8 check lists (a,b,c,d) ix 54.1
SCHEDULE 1 - II – 8.1 (e)
Specimen certificate to be issued by the Society in submission of Electoral Registers to the Assistant Commissioner
of Co-operatives
........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Through the Co-operative Development Officer ............................. ,
To Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development ...................................... ,
Submission of Electoral Registers of Regional Multi-purpose Co-operative society Ltd. of.............................
…………………………………...................................................…. for certification.
……….............................. Electoral Registers, in triplicate, of the under mentioned Regional Societies of the
………………………….............. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd., prepared as per Electoral Regulations 8.1 ( a)/
8.1 ( b) * and 8.1 ( d) of the Code of Electoral Regulations for election of Regional Committee Members of the Co-
operative Societies of the North –Western Province, as published in Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. ………… of 20………, are submitted to you herewith for certification
under the Electoral Regulation No. 8.1 (c).

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
02. Particulars of the Electoral Registers submitted
S/No. Name of the No. of the As mentioned in the Electoral Register,
Regional Regional No. of  names           S/No.                  Membership Nos           Page Nos
Society Society of members from to from to from to
03. We affirm that,
(a) Names and membership numbers of all members qualified to be included have been incorporated,
(b) Names and membership numbers of members as mentioned in membership applications have been included,
(c) No. name of a member with entrance qualifications by law has been omitted,
(d) No. name of a member without entrance qualifications has been included,
(e) No. false name has been included, and
(f) No. false information has been included
into the above mentioned Electoral Registers as per rules of the Co-operative Law, Registered By-Law and Code
of Electoral Regulations currently in force.
........................  ...................... ........................ ........................
Secretary General Manager Chairman/Vise Chairman Director
……... 20 … ……... 20 … ……... 20 … ……... 20 …
SCHEDULE 2- (III – 10.1)
Specimen letters to be issued by the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of Regions to the Chief Polling
Officer, Polling Officer in Charge of the Centers, Polling Officers and Assistant Polling Officers.
specimen letter of appointment of the Chief Polling Officer  (10.1 (a) )
My ref. :               NWP/ date :...................20......
Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................................................
(mention the post held in Co-operative Department)
Appointment for Election Duties
I hereby appoint you as the Chief Polling Officer in charge of election duties for election of Committee Members of the
Region for year 20………….. of the Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd…………………………….., in keeping
with powers vested in me by the Election rule 10.1 ( a) of the Code of Regulations of Co-operative Elections for election
of Committee Members for Regions of the Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province as published
in the Gazette Extraordinary  (Provincial Councils) of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. ………… of
………….2006.
..................................
(mention the name)
Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development
…………………………………………………..
CC  :-
1. Comm. of Coop. Dev./R. (North-western) - for kind information
2. Secretary, Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd.  – FNA &Info.

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
34A
Specimen Letter of Appointment of the Polling Officer/Asst. Polling Officer in Charge of Center*  {10.1 ( b)}
My ref. : NWP/ Date : ................20.........
Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................................................
(mention the post held in the Co-operative Department)
Appointment for Election Duties
I hereby appoint you as the Officer in Charge of Polling Center/ Assistant Polling Officer* of …………………………
Polling Center on the date of undertaking nominations/ election * in year ……………….of ………………………………..
Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd.,in keeping with powers vested in me by the Election rule 10.1 ( b) of the Code of
Regulations of Co-operative Elections for election of Committee Members for Regions of the Multipurpose Co-operative
Societies in North-western Province as published in the Gazette Extraordinary  (Provincial Councils) of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. ………… of ………….2016.
..................................
(mention the name)
Asst. Commissioner of Co-operative Development
…………………………………………………..
CC:-
1. Chief Polling Officer, ………………………. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. – FNA & Info
*cut off unnecessary words
Specimen of a Letter of Appointment of Polling Officers/ Assistant Polling Officers appointed to assist the Chief
Polling Officer    {10.1 (C)}
My ref. : NWP/ Date :................. 20........
Mr. / Mrs. /Miss.......................................................
(mention the post held in Co-operative Department)
Appointment for Election Duties
I hereby appoint you as a Polling Officer / Assistant Polling Officer* to assist Chief Polling Officer on the dates of
Election work / on the date of accepting nominations / on the date of Election* for duties of Election for electing
Committee Members of the Region for year 20…….. of ……………………………………………… Multipurpose Co-
operative Society Ltd.  in keeping with powers vested in me by the Election rule 10.1 (c) of the Code of Regulations of
Co-operative Elections for election of Committee Members for Regions of the Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in
North-western Province as published in the Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka no. ………… of ………….2016.
..................................
(mention the name)
Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development
…………………………………………………..
Copy to:-
1. Chief Polling Officer, ………………………………Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. - FNA & Info.
*cut off unnecessary words

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE 3 - (III – 12.6 )
Specimen of a Letter of Appointment to be issued by the Chief Polling Officer to the staff of Society.
Mr. / Mrs. / Miss. .......................................................
(mention the post held in Society)
Attachment for Polling Center Duties
I appoint you hereby to assist the Officer in Charge of the Center at the Election work to be carried out at the
……………………………………….. Region / Polling Center on the date of accepting nominations / election* of
……………….. 20 ………… for election of Committee Members for the Region of ………………………………. of
the ………………………………………… Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. in keeping with powers vested in me
by the Election rule 12.6 of the Code of Regulations of Co-operative Elections for election of Committee Members for
Regions of the Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province as published in the Gazette Extraordinary
(Provincial Councils) of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. ………… of ………….2016.
02. You should only perform duties assigned to you by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center from the time
you report to the Polling Center for duties up to the time you are released from duties at the Polling Center.
..................................
(mention name of the Chief Polling Officer)
Chief Polling Officer
…………………………………………………. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd.
………………. 20 ……….
Copy to :-
1. Mr. / Mrs. / Miss. ……………………………………………………… - FNA & Info.
Polling Officer in charge of the Center ………………………………….. Polling Center
*cut off unnecessary words

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
36A
SCHEDULE 4 - (IV – 15.4 )
Specimen of a Nomination Sheet - Form ‘A’
NOMINATION  SHEET   1
1. Name and address of the Society:……………………………………….. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd.
............................................................................................................................................................................................
2. Name of the Region : .......................................................................................................................................................
3. Name and address of Polling Center : ..................................................................................................................................
4. particulars of candidate, proposer and seconder :............................................................................ ...............................
particulars candidate proposer seconder
full name
NIC No.
age (years)
address
membership No.
serial No. in Election
Register
declaration
signature
date 20 20 20
name of the person presenting the nomination paper:                                                               signature:
to be filled by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center          Time of submission of the nomination sheet : .. p.m.
Specimen of a Nomination Sheet - Form‘A’
I do hereby give my consent to
appear as a candidate of the Election
to be held for the purpose of electing
Committee Members to the
Committee in .......... Region.
Further,  I do hereby certify that my
name appears in the  electoral
register of this Region prepared as
stated at the Regulation 8.2 of the
Co-operative Code of Regulations for
election of Regional Committee
Members of the Multipurpose Co-
operative Societies in North Western
Province as published in the Gazette
Extraordinary (Provincial Councils)
No. ....... of .................. 2016 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka and I have no disqualifications
blocking my appointment as a
Committee Member as stated at
Election Regulation 14.1 and that all
particulars I have mentioned in this
nomination sheet are accurate
I do certify that the
particulars mentioned above
are accurate. Further, I, being
a member whose name
appears in the electoral
register prepared as stated at
the Regulation 8.2 of the Co-
operative Code of Regulations
for election of Regional
Committee Members of the
Multipurpose Co-operative
Societies in North Western
Province as published in the
Gazette Extraordinary
(Provincial Councils) No.
....... of .................. 2016 of
the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, do
propose that Mr./Mrs./Miss.
....................... of
membership No. .............
should be appointed as a
members in  Committee of
.............. Region.
I do certify that the
particulars mentioned above
are accurate. Further I, being
a member whose name
appears in the electoral
register prepared as stated at
the Regulation 8.2 of the Co-
operative Code of Regulations
for election of Regional
Committee Members of the
Multipurpose Co-operative
Societies in North Western
Province as published in the
Gazette Extraordinary
(Provincial Councils) No.
....... of .................. 2016 of
the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, do
second the proposal made to
the effect that Mr./Mrs./Miss.
........................ of
membership No. .............
should be appointed as a
members in  Committee of
.............. Region.

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE 5 - (VI – 26.1)
Specimen Ballot Paper - Specimen “A”
Serial No. :
counterfoil
..............................................................Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd.
Name of the Polling Center :
Polling Center ................................................................
Signature of Polling Officer/Assistant Polling Officer in charge of Center :.......................
........................ Date of election :...................20.........
                Ballot Paper
1 2 345 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36
For Official Stamp (Seal)
Serial No.

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
38A
SCHEDULE 6 - ( VI – 34.2 )
.............................................. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. -  year...............
Ballot paper account of ...................................................... Polling center
Receipts amount Issued / spoilt/ balance amount
No. of un-used ballot
papers remained in
trust of Officer in
charge of the Center
prior to
commencement
of election
total total
I certify that the particulars above mentioned are accurate.
Signature of the Officer in charge of the center: .................................... date:............20.............
time : ..................
name of the officer in charge of the Center : Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. ............................................................
Ballot papers issued to
voters (excluding spoilt
ballot papers)
No. of spoilt ballot papers
No. of un-used ballot papers

<!-- page 39 -->

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE 7 - (IX – 44.3)
Minimum information to be included in Parts I & II in the Journal of the Officer in Charge of the Polling Center
Minimum information to be included in Parts I & II
Part I Part II
For the day of undertaking nominations For the day of election
01 Basic information(name and address of the
Society, name of the Region, name and address
of Polling Center, particulars of the staff attached
to Polling Center and other basic information)
02 Particulars of defects, if any, contained in
documents, stationery, forms, notices and
equipment undertaken for election purposes by
Polling Officer in charge of the Center
03 Particulars of nominations received
04 Particulars of rejected nominations
05 Particulars of objections received
06 Particulars of uncontested appointments
07 Particulars on election of Committee Members
08 Particulars of names of candidates and their
preference numbers
09 Particulars of disturbances
10 Names and signatures of the Polling Officer,
Assistant Polling Officer  in charge of the Center
01 Basic information(name and address of the Society,
name of the Region, name and address of Polling
Center, particulars of the staff attached to Polling
Center and other basic information)
02 Particulars of defects, if any, contained in
documents, stationery, forms, notices and
equipment undertaken for election purposes by
Polling Officer in charge of the Center
03 Time of commencement of the Election
04 Time of conclusion of the Election
05 Specimens of stamps placed on ballot papers/
specimens of signatures, names of signatories and
their particulars pertaining to the Election
06 Ballot paper account prepared in keeping with
Schedule 6
07 Particulars on the number of votes secured by each
candidate
08 Particulars of Committee Members elected
09 Particulars of disturbances
10 Names and signatures of the Polling Officer,
Assistant Polling Officer  in charge of the Center

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
40A
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1)
(a). Checklist for Electoral Duties to be performed by the Board of Directors/General Manager/Secretary
Serial Electoral duty T ime/date Electoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Order No.
01 Date by which electoral register should by 31st December by 30th June 4.1 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
be prepared
02 Computer word processing and From 01st January to 10th January From 01st July to 10th July 4.1, 4.2 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
certification of electoral registers Chairman, Director,
General Manager
and Secretary
03 Exhibition/publication of notifications On or before 04th January On or before 04th July 5.2, 48.2 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
containing particulars on exhibition of
electoral registers, undertaking appeals,
submission of objections
04 Exhibition of electoral registers From 1 1th January to 25th January From 11th July to 25th July 5.1, 48.2 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
05 Undertaking appeals/objections From 11th January to 25th January From 11th July and 25th July 6.1, 7.1 Secretary, Board R.O.Co.D.
of Directors
06 Notification of the decision of the From 12th January to 08th February From 12th July to  8th August 6.2 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
Board of Directors to the appellants
in view of the appeals received
07 Amending electoral registers in From 12th January to 10th February From 12th July to 10th August 6.1 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
view of appeals received
08 Taking objections received into From 12th January to 04th February From 12th July to 04th August 7.2 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
consideration
09 Notification of rejection of objections From 12th January to 27th February From 12th July 27th August 7.3 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
10 Notification to submit counter-objections From 12th January to 05th February From 12th July to 05th August 7.2( w) Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
11 Taking counter-objections received into From 26th January to 26th February From 26th July to 26th August 7.2( w) Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
* R.O.Co.D. - Regional Officer of Co-operative Development

<!-- page 41 -->

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(a). Checklist for Electoral Duties to be performed by the Board of Directors/General Manager/Secretary
Serial Electoral duty T ime/date Elec toral Responsibility Supervision
No. Order No.
12 Notification of non-acceptance of From 26th January to 27th February From 26th July to 27th August 7.2(wd) Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
counter-objections received
13 Inclusion of a name to the electoral From 09th April to 18th April From 07th October to 6.3( we) Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
register pursuant to a notification 16th October
made to C. Co.D./R. to include a
name of a member into the electoral
register with reference to appeals
submitted to the C.Co.D./R. for
inclusion of his name
14 Amendment of electoral registers From 22nd  April to 01st May From 23rd October to 7.9 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
in view of objections/counter- 01st November
objections received
15 Revision of electoral registers From 22nd April to 01st May From 23rd  Ocrtober to 7.8 Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
when the C.Co.D./R. has 01st November
notified to include into or exclude
from the electoral register a name
of any member with reference to
objections/appeals presented to the
C.Co.D./R.
16 Forwarding electoral registers On or before 24th May On or before 24th November 8.1( we) Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
to the Commissioner
17 Submission of a certificate to the On or before 24th May On or before 24th November 8.1(b) Board of Directors R.O.Co.D.
Commissioner along with electoral
registers
18 Notifying the regions/polling centers, before 03 months of the date of before 03 months of the date of 9.1( w)/ Secretary R.O.Co.D.
their addresses and the number expiry of the term of office of the expiry of the term of office of the ( wd)
of voting members to the General Assembly General Assembly
Commissioner
19 Submission of electoral registers At least 03 days before the due date At least 03 days before the due date 8.4 Board of Director s R.O.Co.D.
to the Chief Polling Officer for entertaining nomination for entertaining nomination
20 Entertaining nomination and printing On or before the date notified by the On or before the date notified by the 11.2 Secretary Chief Polling
notices on the elelction Chief Polling Officer Chief Polling Officer Officer
* R.O.Co.D - Regional Officer of Co-operative Development

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
42ASCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(a). Checklist for Electoral Duties to be performed by the Board of Directors/General Manager/Secretary
Serial Electoral duty T ime/date Elec toral Responsibility Supervision
No. Order No.
21 Exhibtion of notices on entertaining During the period notified During the period notified 11.3 General Manager Chief Polling
nominations and election and by the Chief Polling Officer by the Chief Polling Officer Officer
submission of written confirmations
of such exhibition of notices to the
Chief Polling Officer
22 Handing over stationery, forms and During the period notified During the period notified 12.2 General Manager Chief Polling
other materials required for the by the Chief Polling Officer by the Chief Polling Officer Officer
election, to the Chief Polling Officer
23 Provision of the amount of staff To locations directed by the Chief To locations directed by the Chief 12.5 General Manager Chief Polling
of the Society, vehicles and Polling Officer, during the period Polling Off icer, during the period Officer
equipment required for the he has directed he has directed
election, to the Chief Polling
Officer
24 Printing notices containing names During the period notified During the period notified 22.2 Secretary Chief Polling
of electoral candidate and  their by the Chief Polling Officer by the Chief Polling Officer Officer
preferential numbers
25 Exhibition  of notices containing During the period notified During the period notified 22.3 General Manager Chief Polling
names and preferential numbers by the Chief Polling Officer by the Chief Polling Officer Officer
of the electoral candidates and
submission of written confirmations
of such exhibition of notices, to the
Chief Polling Officer
26 Exhibition of names and membership Soon after submission Soon after submission of 41.3 Secretary Chief Polling
numbers of elected Committee relevant particulars by the relevant particulars by the Officer
Members handed over by the Chief Polling Officer Chief Polling Officer
Chief Polling Officer
27 Safe keeping of documents A minimum period of 01 year A minimum period of 01 year 53.1 Secretary R.O.Co.D.
pertaining to the election handed from the date of termination from the date of termination
over to the Secretary by various of electoral work and at least of electoral work and at least
Polling Officers a period of 06 months a period of 06 months
from finalization of work on from finalization of work on
the relevant litigation/complaint the relevant litigation/complaint
28 Safe keeping electoral register A period of at least one year A period of at least one year 8.6 Secretary R.O.Co.D.
submitted by Polling Officers to from the date the Secretary from the date the Secretary
the Secretary entertained the electoral registers entertained the electoral registers
* R.O.Co.D. - Regional Officer of Co-operative Development

<!-- page 43 -->

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(b). Checklist for Electoral works to be performed by members
Serial Electoral work Duration/date El ectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Order No.
01 Submission of  appeals to insert From 11th January to 25th January From 11th July to 25th July 6.1 To the relevant -
a name into the electoral register Member
02 Submission of objections on a name From 11th January to 25th January From 11th July to 25th July 7.1 To the relevant -
inserted into the electoral register Member
03 Submission of counter-objections From 13th January to 19th From 13th July to 19th August 7.2(a) To  the relevant -
 February Member
04 Submission of a second appeal to From 16th Ferbuary to 25th From 16th August  to 25th August 6.3(b) To the relevant -
the C. Co. D./R., North-Western February Member
when it has been notified that the
Board of Directors has rejected
the member's appeal or when to
reply has been sent by the Board
of Directors
05 Submission of an objection to the From 01st March to 10th From 01st September to 10th 7.4, 7.6 To the relevant -
C. Co. D./R., North-Western March September Member
when it has been notified that the
Board of Directors has rejected
the objection submitted or when
no reply has been sent by the Board
of Directors on the objection submitted
06 Submission of an objection to the From 01st March to 10th From 01st September to 10th 7.5, 7.6 To the relevant -
C. Co. D./R., North-Western March September Member
when the Board of Directors has
notified to the Member of removal
of his name due to acceptance of
objections submitted or when the
Board of Directors has not replied
the counter-objections
* C. Co./ D./R. - North Western Commissioner of Co-operative  Development and Register of Co-operative Societies, Norht Western.

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
44A
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(b). Checklist for Electoral works to be performed by members
Serial Electoral duty Duration/date E lectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Order No.
07 Exhibition of electoral registers During the period stipulated by During the period stipulated by 8.3(b) M embers -
prepared as per Electoral papers by the Commissioner of papers by the Commissioner of
Regulation 8.3, making appeals co-operative Development and co-operative Development and
and submission of objections Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Registrar of Co-operative
Northern Western Societies, Northern Western
08 Members not qualified to submit - - 14.1 M embers -
nominations
09 Method of preparation of - - From M embers -
nomination papers 15.1 to
15.4
10 Submission of nomination papers From 9 .00 a. m. to 10.00 a. m. From 9.00 a. m. to 10.00 a. m. 16.1 M embers -
the date specified for on the date specified for
entertaining nominations entertaining nominations
11 Submission of objections to From 10.00 a. m. to 11.00 a. m. From 10.01 a. m. to 11.00 a. m. 17.1 M embers -
nominations submitted the date specified for on the date specified for
entertaining nominations entertaining nominations
12 Matters against which objections - - 17.2 M embers -
may be submitted
13 Receipt of preferential numbers After 11.01 a. m. on the dat e After 11.01 a. m. on the date 21.1 C andidates and -
specified for entertaining specified for entertaining members who have
nominations nominations proposed and
seconded their
names
* C.Co.D./R., North-western  - Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

<!-- page 45 -->

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(b). Checklist for Electoral works to be performed by members
Serial Electoral duty Duration/date E lectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Order No.
14 Period of election From 9.00 a. m. to 4.00 p. m. From 9.00 a. m. to 4.00 p. m. 28.1 Candidates, Members -
on the date specified for the on the date specified for the who proposed
Election Election and seconded their
names and all other
members
15 Sealing ballot boxes Before 9.00 a. m. on the date Before 9.00 a. m. on the date 29.1 Candidates, Member -
specified for the Election specified for the Election who proposed
and seconded their
names and all other
members
16 Persons authorized to enter During specific periods on During specific periods on 27.1 Candidates, Member -
into and remain in the Polling the date specified for the date specified for who proposed
Center the Election Election and seconded their
names and all other
members
17 Receiving ballot papers and From 9.00 a. m. to 4.00 p. m. From 9.00 a. m. to 4.00 p. m. All Candidates, Member -
how to cast vote the date specified for on the date specified for Electoral who proposed
the Election the Election Regulations and seconded their
from 30.1 names and all other
to 34.2 members
18 Counting votes and issue of After 4.00 p. m. on the date After 4.00 p. m. on the date All Candidates, Member -
results  specified for the Election specified for the Election Electoral who proposed
Regulations and seconded their
From 35.1 names
to 41.4
* C.Co.D./R., North-western  - Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
46A
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1)
(d). Electoral duties to be performed by the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western
Serial Electoral work T ime/date E lectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Regulation No.
01 Fixing the date for entertaining In keeping with rules specified In Keeping with rules specified 9.2 C.Co.D./R* -
nominations and election and in the registered By-law in the registered By-law
revision of the dates so fixed
02 Exhibition of electoral registers From 1 1th January to 25th  From 11th July to 25th July 5.1(c) C.Co.D./R -
in the website of the Co-operative January
Department, North-Western
Temporary suspension of exhibition Up to a maximum of 02 years Up to a maximum of 02 years 55.4 C.Co.D./R
of electoral registeres in the website with effect from the date this with effect from the date this
of the Co-operative Department, code of electoral regulations code of electoral regulations
North-western becomes effective for North- becomes effective for North-
western Province western Province
03 Making an enquiry on the 2nd From 16th February to 18th April From 16th August to 06th 6.3(b) C.Co.D./R -
appeals submitted by members October
04 Making decisions on the 2nd On or before 08th April On or before 06th October 6.3(b) C.Co.D./R -
appeals submitted by members
05 Making an enquiry on objections/ From 01st March to 21st April From 01st September to 22nd 7.7 C.Co.D./R -
appeals received on removal of a October
name mentioned in the electoral
register
06 Announcing the decision on On or before 21st April On or before 22nd October 7.7 C.Co.D./R -
objections/appeals received on
removal of a name mentioned
in the electoral register
07 Exhibition of electoral registers On or before 03rd March On or before 31st August 8.3(d) C.Co.D./R -
prepared as per the electoral
regulation 8.3(c), publishing paper
advertisements containing dates
enteraining appeals objections
* C.Co.D./R., North-western  - Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

<!-- page 47 -->

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(d). Electoral duties to be performed by the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western
Serial Electoral work T ime/date E lectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Regulation No.
08 Removal of the relevant Committee Once the enquiry on objections Once the enquiry on objections 17.8 C.Co.D./R
Member from post pursuant to an is over is over
enquiry made on the objections referred to
at electoral regulation 17.2(a) and a
consequent decision taken to the effect that
a Committee Member elected accordingly
should be removed
09 Giving instructions to the Polling Officer On the day of entertaining On the day of entertaining 43.2 C.Co.D./R -
in charge of the Center on action to be nominations and day of nominations and day of
taken when there are agitations to the election election
level beyond his control
10 Issue cof instructions and directives When the requirements arises When the requirements arises 47.1 C.Co.D./R
on matters pertaining to electoral
duties not referred to in the Code of
Electoral Regulations
1 1 Issue of relevant instructions and During periods specified in During periods specified in 48.3 C.Co.D./R -
directives to Assistant Co-operative Electoral Regulation 48.3 Electoral Regulation 48.3
Commissioners  in charge of Divisions
when the staff or Board of Directors
of the Society refrain from adhereing
to regulations in the Code of Electoral
Regulations
12 Recovery of expenses to be borne As per rules specified in As per rules specified in 48.4 C.Co.D./R -
by the Co-operative Department, Electoral Regulation 48.4 Electoral Regulation 48.4
North-western, for adhereing to rules
specified in Electoral Regulations
83. and 48.3
13 Issue of regulations pertaining to During period specified in During period specified in 55.1, 55.2, C.Co.D./R -
interim provisions   Electoral Regulations 55.1,   Electoral Regulations 55.1, 55.3 and
55.2, 55.3 and 55.4 55.2, 55.3 and 55.4 55.4
14 Definition When the requirements arises When the requirements arises 57.2 C.Co.D./R -
* C.Co.D./R., North-western  - Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

<!-- page 48 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
48ASCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1)
(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division
Serial Electoral Work T ime/date E lectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Regulations No.
01 Certification of Electoral Registers Before 08th June Before 9th December 8.1(c) Assistant C.Co.D./R*
prepared by the Society Commissioner
of Co-operative
in charge of the
Division
02 Once the dates for entertaining Soon after receiving the Soon after receiving the 9.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R*
nominations in Region and Election letter of the C. Co.D./R letter of the C. Co.D./R Commissioner
are notified by the C.Co.D./R, notifying dates of nomination notifying dates of nomination of Co-operative
intimation of such dates and election of Societies and election of Societies in charge of the
Division
(i) To Secretary to the Society
(ii) To the Chief Polling Officer, When issuing letters of When issuing letters of 9.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R*
Polling Officers in charge of the appointment of relevant appointment of relevant Commissioner
Centers, Polling Officers and officers officers of Co-operative
Assistant Polling Officers in charge of the
Division
Appointment of officers
(i) Chief Polling Officers At least a month before At least a month before 10.1(a) Assistant C.Co.D./R*
the date regulated for the date regulated for Commissioner
entertaining nominations entertaining nominations of Co-operative
in charge of the
Division
(ii) Polling Officers in charge of On a day to be decided by the On a day to be decided by the 10.1(b) Assistant C.Co.D./R*
Centers and Assistant Polling Assista nt Commissioner in Assistant Commissioner in 24.1 Commissioner
Officers required  for their charge of the Division charge of the Division in charge of the
assistance Division
03 (iii) Polling Officers required by the On a day to be decided by the On a day to be decided by the 10.1(c) Assistant C.Co.D./R*
- Chief Polling Officer for his Assistant  Commissioner in Assistant Commissioner in Commissioner
assistance and Assistant Polling charge of the Division charge of the Division of Co-operative
Officers in charge of the
Division
(iv) Replacement of another officer Soon after understanding Soon after understanding 10.2 Assistant C.Co.D./R*
at an instant when an officer that a situation has arisen where that a situation has arisen where Commissioner
appointed for electoral duties an officer appointed for an officer appointed for of Co-operative
falls into a situation where he is Electoral duties is no longer Electoral duties is no longer in charge of the
unable to perform them able to perform his duties able to perform his duties Division
* C.Co.D./R.,  Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

<!-- page 49 -->

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division
Serial Electoral  Work T ime/date Electoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Regulations No.
04 Receiving Police security required for At least 4 weeks before the At least 4 weeks before the 13.1 Assistant C.Co.D./R*
Election date of calling nominations date of calling nominations Commissioner
of Co-operative
in charge of the
Division
05 Objections submitted by the Chief Within 03 working days Within 03 working days 17.5 Assistant C.Co.D./R*
Polling Officer from the day on which the from the day on which the Commissioner
(i) entertaining objections pertaining Chief Polling Officer Chief Polling Officer of Co-operative
to Electoral Regulations No. 17.2 received objections received objections in charge of the
(b), 17.2(c) & 17.2(d) Division
(ii) Entertaining objections pertaining Within 03 working days Within 03 working days 17.6 Assistant C.Co.D./R*
to Electoral Regulations 17.2(a) from the day on which the from the day on which the Commissioner
Chief Polling Officer Chief Polling Officer of Co-operative
received objections received objections in charge of the
Division
(iii) Sending recommendations on W ithin 21 days from the day Within 21 days from the day 17.7 Assistant C.Co.D./R*
objections entertained under of submission of objections of submission of objections Commissioner
Electoral Regulation 17.2((a) by the Chief Polling Officer by the Chief Polling Officer of Co-operative
to C. Co.D./R in charge of the
Division
(iv) Destroying objections undertaken (i) After 06 months from the (i) After 06 months from the date 17.10 Assistant C.Co.D./R*
under Electoral Regulations 17.2 date of entertaining of entertaining nominations Commissioner
(b), 17.2(c), 17.2(d) nominations if no litigation if no litigation has been of Co-operative
has been initiated on electoral initiated on electorla work in charge of the
work of the Society of the Society Division
(ii) When a litigation has been (ii) When a litigation has been 17.10 Assistant C.Co.D./R
on electoral work of the on electoral work of the Commissioner
Society, until a determination Societ y, until a determination of Co-operative
is issued after hearing the is issued after hearing the in charge of the
said litigation or passage of said litigation or passage of Division
06 months from the date 06 months from the date
of entertaining nominations, of entertaining nominations,
whichever is longer whichever is longer
* C.Co.D./R.,  Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

<!-- page 50 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
50A
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division
Serial Electoral work T ime/date E lectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Regulation No.
06 Issuing instructions on action to be taken When the incident is reported When the incident is reported 43.2 Assistant C.Co.D./R
at a post-distribution context in accordance with Electoral in accordance with Electoral Commissioner
Regulation 43.2 Regulation 43.2 of Co-operative
in charge of the
Dvision
(i) After 06 months from the (i) After 06 months from the 53.2 Assistant C.Co.D./R
date of termination of date of termination of Commissioner
electoral work, if no electorla work, if no of Co-operative
litigation has been  initiated litigation has been  initiated in charge of the
or no complaint has been or no complaint has been Division
received on electoral work received on electoral work
of the Society of the Society
07 Destroying documents, forms (ii) After 06 months from the (ii) After 06 months from the 53.2 Assistant C.Co.D./R
pertaining to electoral work date of finalizing work on date of finalizing work on Commissioner
of the Soceity undertaken form the relevant litigation/ the relevant litigation/ of Co-operative
the Chief Polling Officer/Polling complaint, when litigation complaint, when litigation in charge of the
Officer in charge of the Center/ has been initiated or a has been initiated or a Division
Polling Officer/Assistant Polling complaint has been received complaint has been received
officer on electoral work of the on electoral work of the
Society Society
08 Making provisions to implement Bef ore 31st January Before 31st July 4.1, 8.3(a), Assistant C.Co.D./R
electoral work when the Society 8.3(c) Commissioner
is neglecting implementation of of Co-operative
such electoral work - 1 in charge of the
(i)   Initiation of preparing electoral Division
      registers
* C.Co.D./R.,  Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

<!-- page 51 -->

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division
Serial Electoral work T ime/date E lectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Regulation No.
(ii) Notifying the C. Co.D./R. about Before 28th February Before 31st August 8.3(d) Assistant C.Co.D./R
finalization of preparing electoral Commissioner
registers at its finalization of Co-operative
in charge of the
Division
(iii) Entertaining appeals pertaining to As per periods published in As per periods published in 8.3(d) Assistant C.Co.D./R
inclusion of a name into the electoral national newspapers by  national newspapers by Commissioner
register, entertaining objections submitted C. Co.C/R . C. Co.C/R. of Co-operative
against a name included, notification in charge of the
to submit counter-objections to Division
objections and reference of them to the
C. Co. D./R. together with his
observations and recommendations
on such appeals, objections and counter-
objections
(iv) Getting amendment of Electoral Before 06th November 6.1, 8.3(a) Assistant C.Co.D./R
Registers initiated (d) Commissioner
(a) As per appeals of Co-operative
in charge of the
Division
(a) As per objections/counter- Before 22nd May Before 22nd November 7.8, 7.9 Assistant C.Co.D./R
     objections 8.3(a), Commissioner
8.3(c) of Co-operative
in charge of the
Division
(v) Certifying electoral registers Before 29th June Before 30th November 8.3(a) Assistant C.Co.D./R
54.1(a) Commissioner
of Co-operative
in charge of the
Division
(vi) Submission of certified electoral Assistant C.Co.D./R
 registers to the Chief Polling Officer Commissioner
(a) Submission of electoral registers At least 02 days prior to At least 02 days prior to 8. 1(c), of Co-operative
 in his charge to the Chief Polling Officer the date stipulated for the date stipulated for 8.4 in charge of the
 when the Board of Directors do not entertaining nominations entertaining nominations Division
submit electoral registers certified by
the Assistant Commissioner of
Co-operative in charge of the Division
 *C.Co.D./R.,  Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

<!-- page 52 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
52ASCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division
Serial Electoral work T ime/date E lectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Regulation No.
(b) Submission of electoral registers At least 03 days prior to At least 03 days prior to 8.3(a) Assistant C.Co.D./R
certified as per the Electoral the date stipulated for the date stipulated for Commissioner
Regulation 8.3(a) to the Chief entertaining nominations entertaining nominations of Co-operative
Polling Officer in charge of the
Division
Making provisions for performance of During the period of specified During the period of specified 48.3
electoral work, when the Society in the electoral regulations in the electoral regulations
neglect performance of electoral work 2 48.3 48.3
(i) When neglecting exhibition of Assistant C.Co.D./R
notices pertaining to exhibition of Commissioner
electoral registeres (5.2) of Co-operative
in charge of the
Division
(ii) When neglecting exhibition of During the period of specified During the period of specified 48.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R
electoral registers (5.1) in the electoral regulations  in the electoral regulations Commissioner
48.3  48.3 of Co-operative
in charge of the
Division
(iii) When neglecting adhering to the During the period of specified During the period of specified 48.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R
09 requirement of furnishing in the electoral regulations  in the electoral regulations Commissioner
information (9.1) by the Secretary 48.3  48.3 of Co-operative
03 months before to the termination in charge of the
of the term of office of the General Division
Assembly of the Society
(iv) When neglecting requirement of During the period of specified During the period of specified 48.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R
printing notices containing dates for in the electoral regulations  in the electoral regulations Commissioner
entertaining nominations and election 48.3  48.3 of Co-operative
and other pertinent particluars (11.2) in charge of the
Division
(v) When neglecting the requirement During the period of specified During the period of specified 48.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R
of exhibition of notices printed on in the electoral regulations  in the electoral regulations Commissioner
entertaining nominations and election 48.3  48.3 of Co-operative
(11.3) in charge of the
Division
(vi) When neglecting the requirements During the period of specified During the period of specified 48.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R
of provision of stationery, forms and in the electoral regulations  in the electoral regulations Commissioner
other materials required for the 48.3  48.3 of Co-operative
election (12.2) in charge of the
Division
(vii) When neglecting the requirements During the period of specified During the period of specified 48.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R
of provision of vehicles, wooden in the electoral regulations  in the electoral regulations Commissioner
material and equipment and staff 48.3  48.3 of Co-operative
required for the election (12.5) in charge of the
Division
 *C.Co.D./R.,  Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

<!-- page 53 -->

53AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22
PART IV (A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.08.2016
SCHEDULE NO. 08 - ( IX - 54.1) (Contd.)
(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division
Serial Electoral work T ime/date E lectoral Responsibility Supervision
No. Regulation No.
(viii) When neglecting the requirement of During the period of specified During the period of specified  48.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R
printing (22.2) and exhibiting (22.3) in the electoral regulations  in the electoral regulations Commissioner
notices containing names of candidates, 48.3  48.3 of Co-operative
preferential numbers, date, place and in charge of the
time of election Division
(ix) When n eglecting exhibition  (41.3) During the period of specified During the period of specified 48.3 Assistant C.Co.D./R
of names and membership numbers in the electoral regulations  in the electoral regulations Commissioner
of Committee Members elected 48.3  48.3 of Co-operative
as entrusted by the Chief Polling in charge of the
Officer Division
10 Undertaking back the electoral Within 03 days from the day Within 03 days from the day 8.3(a), Assistant C.Co.D./R
registers submitted by the Chief of entertaining nominations/  of entertaining nominations/ 8.4, Commissioner
Polling Officer following electoral election, as applicable election, as applicable 8.5 of Co-operative
work (electoral registers referred in charge of the
to at serial No. 8(iv) of this checklist) Division
1 1 Safekeeping the electoral registers At least up to 06 months from At least up to 06 months from 8.6 Assistant C.Co.D./R
handed over by the Chief Polling the date of entertaining electoral the date of entertaining electoral Commissioner
Officer after electoral work registers if neither litigation has registers if neither litigation has of Co-operative
been initiated on electoral work been initiated on electoral work in charge of the
of the Society nor a complaint of the Society nor a complaint Division
received received
Up to the end of the litigation Up to the end of the litigation 8.6 Assistant C.Co.D./R
when litigation has been when litigation has been Commissioner
initiated on election work of initiated on election work of of Co-operative
the society the society in charge of the
Division
12 Recovery of expenses to be borne by As per rules specified in As per rules specified in 48.4 Assistant C.Co.D./R
the Co-operative Department to meet Electoral Regulation 48.4 Electoral Regulation 48.4 Commissioner
the requirements of rules specified of Co-operative
in the Code of Electoral Regulations in charge of the
owing to non-adherence on the part of Division
the Co-operative Society to the same
 * C.Co.D./R.,  Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
09 - 205