

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
121
121
wxl 1"847 - 2014 ckjdß 24 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'01'24
No. 1,847 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 24, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 124
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 129
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th February, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st
January, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts I-III, II and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,846 of 17.01.2014 were not published.
(ii) The catalogue of books printed quarterly in July to September, 2011 registered under the Printers and Publishers Ordinance has
been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
122
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
123
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
124
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th  Fe bruary,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
06th January, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Niyagama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Benthara Walallawita Korale General, District Secretariat, Galle.
Division and Births and Deaths of
Maththaka Korale Division
01–648
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
125
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th  Fe bruary,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
06th January, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Dharga Town Area in Kalutara and General, District Secretariat, Kalutara.
Panadura Totamuna Division
01–650
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th  Fe bruary,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
06th January, 2014.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
126
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Nuwaragam Palatha Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
 East in Nuwaragam Palatha Division of General, District Secretariat,
Anuradhapura New Town Area Anuradhapura.
01–649
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATALE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th  Fe bruary,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
08th January, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matale Dambulla Post of Medical Registrar of Birth, District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Dambulla Town Division General, District Secretariat, Matale.
01–786

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
127
GOVERNMENT  FACTORY  DEPARTMENT
APPLICA TIONS are invited from Sri Lankan male candidates
possessing the minimum qualifications stipulated in this identification
for filling 02 vacancies of Mechanical Superintendent IIB (Sri Lanka
Technological Science) in the Government Factory Department.
01. Method of Application :
01.01 Applications shoudl be prepared in A4 size paper using
both sides according the specimen application given below
and should be sent under registered cover to “The Factory
Engineer, Government Factory, Kolonnawa” to reach him
before 13.02.2014. The post applied for should be clearly
indicated on the left hand top corner of the envelope in
which the application is enclosed.
01.02 Applications received after the last date for receiving
application will be, rejected. Applicants are advised to
post the application in time to avoid delays in the post.
01.03 If any particulars contained in the application are founmd
to be false prior to recruitment, the candidature of the
applicant will cancelled. If such false information is
detected after recruitment he will be dismissed from
service.
Important .– Receipt of application will not be
acknowledged. Applications without the prescribed
qualifications and those not properly completed will
be rejected.
02. Educational qualification.– Pass in the same sitting in the
G . C. E. (A level) Examination in 3 Science Subjects including Pure
Mathematics/Applied Mathematics/Combined Mathematics and
Physics and a pass in the G . C. E. (O level) Examination in six (06)
subjects in not more than 2 sittings with credit passes for language or
Literature, Mathematics, Science and another subject.
03. Professional qualification.– The candidate should passess
one of the following qualifications :
(i) National Technological Diploma (Mechanical) Certificate
awarded by the Moratuwa University or the Ampara
Hardy Institute ;
or
(ii) National Engineering Diploma (Mechanical) awarded by
the National Apprentice and Technical Training Institute ;
or
(iii) National Higher Engineering Diploma (Mechanical)
awarded by the Education and Higher Education Ministry ;
or
(iv) Technological Diploma (Mechanical) awarded by the Sri
Lanka Open University ;
or
(v) Successful completion of Part I of the Mechanical
Engineering Examination conducted by the Sri Lanka
Engineering Institute ;
or
(vi) Possession of other technological qualifications recognized
by the Sri Lanka Technological Services most and similar
in all respects to the technological qualifications referred
to above in consultation with the Ministry of Higher
Education and the Institutes which issue the above
Technological Certificate.
04. Other qualification.– Should be males of excellent character
and good physique.
05. Salary scale.– Will be placed in the salary scale Rs. 15,005 -
180x 4 - 240x6 -  320x11 - 360x20 - Rs. 27,885 under MN3- 2006 of
Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV).
06. Age limit.– Not less than 18 years of age and not more than 30
years as at 13.02.2014 (The maximum age limit will not apply to
those already employed in the Public Service or the Provincial Public
Service).
07. Method of Recruitment .– The qualified candidates will be
subjected to a written competition test and the candidates obtaining
highest marks will be subjected an interview for selection of suitable
candidates. No marks will be assigned at the interview and only the
qualifications will be examined. A minimum of 40% marks should be
obtained for each question paper. The subjects and subject
recommendations for the examination are as follows :
(1) Technological knowledge (01 hour) :
Questions to test the level of technological knowledge, a
diploma or similar certificate holder should passes and
depicted as recruitment qualifications pertaining to the
fields of casting metals, machining. fitting, welding, motor
mechanics, carpentry and maintenance, will be included.
(2) General knowledge and Intelligence (01 hour) :
* Geographical changes, history, policies, sports and recent
events of importance in Sri Lanka (including successes
achieved internationally),
* Important incidents of the world, Geographical,
demarcations, main cities, International Organizations and
their functions.
* Power of comprehension, ability of logical discursive
cognition, power of intelligence, ability to take correct
decisions instantly, ability to solve arithmetical and
mathematical problems, utilizing language phrases, tables,
pictures, graphs and examination of same will be tested.
08. Implantation of the Official Language Policy .– All Public
Officers join up the service after 01.07.2007 should, within 5 years,
gain proficiency in another official language in addition to the
recruitment language, in terms of Public Administration and Home
Affairs Circular No. 07/2007 of 28.04.2007.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
128
09. Conditions of Service :
09.01 This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution
should be made to the Widows and Orphans/Widowers
and Orphans Pension Fund.
09.02 The selected candidates shall be subjected to the
provisions of the Establishments Code, Financial
Regulations and rules and regulations issued by the line
Ministry and the Government Factory.
09.03 Provisions in paragraphs 10 to 12 of Chapter II of the
Establishments Code will apply.
09.04 The appointment will be subject to a probation period
of three (3) years.
10. Candidates employed in the Public or Provincial Public Service
should submit their applications through their Heads of Departments.
W. M. K. R. S. R. F
ERNANDO,
Factory Engineer,
Government Factory,
Kolonnawa.
Application
APPLICATION FOR POST OF MECHANICAL
SUPERINTENDENT IIB OF THE GOVERNMENT FACTORY
For office use only
01. (i) Last name with initials :––––––––––––.
(ii) Names indicated by initials :––––––––––––.
(iii) Name with initials (in English) :––––––––––––.
02. Address and telephone number :–
(i) Office address :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private address :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(Any change in the address or the telephone number should
be informed immediately).
03. Date and place of birth :––––––––––––.
04. Age on the last date for receiving applications :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
06. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––––.
07. (i) Male/Female :––––––––––––.
(ii) Married/Single/Widower :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
Examination/ Year Subjects Grade Name of
Diploma Institute/
University
09. Professional qualifications :
Examination/ Year Subjects Grade Name of
Diploma Institute/
University
10. Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
11. Ethnicity (mark the assigned number in the cage) :
Sinhala - 1
Sri Lankan Tamil - 2
Sri Lankan Muslim - 3
Of Indian origin - 4
Other - 5
I certify that the particulars given by me in this application are
true and correct. I am aware that if any of the particulars contained
herein are found to be false or incorrect prior to selection. I shall be
disqualified and if detected after appointment, I am liable for
dismissed without any compensation.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date : 2014 ––––––––.
(This part will apply only to those in State Service and Trainees) :
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT/INSTITUTE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who has applied
for the post of ........................................ is at present employed/
under training as a ..................................... in the Ministry/Department/
Institute of .................................. and that his/her work and conduct
is satisfactory. He/She can be/cannot be released from service if he/
she is selected for this post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Frank :––––––––––––.
01–791

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
129
MINISTRY  OF  LANDS  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Survey Department
RECRUITMENT TO PRIMARY SEMI SKILLED POSTS
(PL 02-2006A) WHICH REMAIN V ACANT IN SURVEY
DEPARTMENT – SURVEY FIELD ASSISTANT
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka to
recruit to the post of Primary semi skilled (PL02-2006A) survey
Field Assistant which remains vacant in Survey Department.
1.1  Post Number of Vacancies Grade
1. Survey Field Assistant 400 Grade III
1.2 Nature of duties of posts :
Post Main Functions
Survey Field * Giving assistance to draw the sketch relevant
Assistant to the survey.
* Preparation of survey lines as possible as to
observe old boundaries, using Survey field
books and plans.
* Placing and opening of relevant land marks
and pickets in area relevant to the survey.
* Giving assistance to survey duties relevant
to finding out and placing of bench marks
relevant to the survey.
* Giving Assistance to maintenance relevant
to the safety and storing of instruments, use
in the field
* Setting out of G. P. S. instruments, for
surveys which are done, using of satellite
technology including of theodolite, leveling
instruments and new electronic total stations,
in survey stations in field.
* Giving assistance to all activities of placing
of geo control points require for air
photography.
* Keeping of targets properly that require for
determinatio of location and level of all
stations which made in surveys and giving
assistance to collect data.
* Setting out of landmarks and bench marks
using correct data in survey.
* Setting out of landmarks relevant to blocking
out of lands which basically done using the
data in survey field books and tracing entries.
* Attending to any duty assigned by Surveyor
General or his representative as applicable
to surveying.
* Supervision of work of other survey field
assistants is assigned for those who hold the
post of overseers in survey field assistant
grade, in addition to the above duties.
2.0 The number of appointments and the date of appointment
will be decided by the appointing authority. The appointing authority
has power to fill all or any number of vacancies.
3.0 Salary :
Table No. 01.
Grade Salary scale Initial monthly
salary
Grade III Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 - Rs. 12,210
10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 -
Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
Grade II Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 - Rs. 13,655
10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 -
Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
Grade I Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 - Rs. 15,120
10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 -
Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
Special Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 - Rs. 16,730
Grade 10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 -
Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
4.0 This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointment is
subject to 03 year probation period and selected candidates are bound
to serve in any part of the country and subject to general conditions
applicable to appointment to the public service.
5.0 Qualifications :
5.1 Basic qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) The minimum age should be 18 years and maximum
age should be 45 years as at the closing date of
application. (The maximum age limit is not applicable
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
Post Main Functions

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
130
for those who hold a permanent post already in the
public service).
5.2 Educational qualifications :
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. Ordinary Level
Examination in six (06) subjects with at least two
credits passes in not more than two sittings.
5.3 Professional qualifications :
Should have obtained a skill at least in level two of
National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) as determined
by the tertiary and V ocational Education Commission as
appropriate for the post of Survey Field Assistant.
5.4 Minimum skills :
(a) Giving assistance to identify survey fields.
(b) Attending to safety and maintenance of survey
instruments and equipments.
5.5 Physical fitness :
All candidates should have physically and mentally fit
adequate to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to carry
out duties in the post.
5.6 Other :
(i) The candidate should be of excellent moral character.
(ii) All the necessary qualifications for recruitment to
the post should have been fulfilled in all respect as at
the closing date of calling for application.
6.0 Furnishing false information.– In filling these vacancies, if a
candidate is found not to have necessary qualifications, his/her
candidature can be cancelled. If any of the particulars furnished by a
candidate is found to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/she
has willfully suppressed by material fact he/she will be liable to
dismissal from the public service.
7.0 Method of recruitment. – Recruitment will be on a written
examination.
Examination Procedure.– The examination will consists of written
test consisting two subjects. This examination will be held in Sinhala,
Tamil and English mediums. The medium applied for will not be
allowed to change subsequently.
Maximum Minimum
marks percentage of Time
obtainable marks required
for a pass
(i) General 100 40% 02 hours
Knowledge
(ii) Intelligence 100 40% 01 hour and
15 minutes
7.1 Syllabus :
(i) General knowledge. – Including the knowledge of
environment of the candidate lives, political, social,
cultural, religious and economical environment in Sri
Lanka, scientific and technological development,
internationally important general facts are expected
by this paper.
(ii) Intelligence Test.– A question paper made in multiple
choice method, consists of questions to judge the
rationality, ability of thought and ability to take
decision, of the candidate.
8.0 Selection procedure.– After an interview held by an interview
board appointed by Surveyor General only to ascertain whether the
qualifications have been fulfilled by the candidates, recruitment will
be made as survey field assistant in order of merits obtained by
candidates in the written examination.
One month field and theoretical training will be given to those
who recruited as survey field assistants by the training institute of
Survey Department.
9.0 Preparation and submission of applications :
(a) The application should be prepared by the applicant
himself on a paper size 21x29 (A4) using both sides as
per the specimen application appearing at the end of
this notice. Item No. 01 to 06 should be on page 01, No.
07-09.2 on page 02, No. 10-14 on page 03 and No. 15 -
16.2 should be on page 04.
(b) Candidates who are already employed in public service
should forward their applications through their Heads
of the Departments before the closing date of application.
(c) Applications should be in the language in which the
candidates in eligible to sit the examination.
(d) Applications which are not complying with the
specimen form, examination fees have not been paid
before the prescribed date, of improper filling, will be
rejected without any notice. Candidates shoudl bear
consequences of improper filling of applications. it
would be useful to retain a photocopy of the application.
It is responsibility of the candidate to find out whether
the completed application complies with the application
specified in the notice. If not, application will be rejected.
(e) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
Complaints for any loss of applications in the post will
not be considered.
9.1 On the presumption that only the candidates who have
qualifications specified in gazette notification have

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
131
applied, Surveyor General will allow all candidates who
have paid specified examination fees and submitted
application on or before 21.02.2014 to sit the
examination. Issuing of admission card shall not be
deemed as the applicant possesses qualifications to the
post or to sit the examination. Candidature of the
applicant will be cancelled if it is found at the time of
interview that the applicant does not possess the
requirements for this post.
9.2 The envelope containing the application should be
clearly marked "Recruitment to posts of primary semi
skilled - Survey field Assistant" on the top left hand
corner.
9.3 The signature of the applicant in the application should
be certified by a principal of a government school/Justice
of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-law/
Commissioned officer in the army/an officer in police
service hold a gazetted post or an officer who hold a
permanent post in public service in tertiary or senior
level in terms of the grading of public service Circular
No. 06/2006.
10. Examination Fees .– Examination fee is Rs. 800. This fee
should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General Office in
No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any of District Survey
Office or at Institute of Surveying and Mapping - Diyathalawa.
The receipt should be pasted in the relevant cage in the application
form. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with
applicant). The fee is not refundable in any circumstance and money
orders and cheques will not be accepted. Applications without cash
receipts will be rejected.
11. Submission of Application. – Completed application should
be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or
before 21st February, 2014.
Senior Superintendent of Survey (Examination),
Institute of Surveying and Mapping,
Diyatalawa.
12. Appearing for the Examination .– Every candidate should
hand over their admission card to the supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate who fails to hand over his admission card will
not be permitted to sit the examination. The candidate should sit
the examination at the examination hall assigned to him.
13. Identity of candidate.– Candidates should prove their identity
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
paper they sit. Any of the following documents will be accepted
for their  purpose :
(i) The National Identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid Postal Identity Card issued by the Post Master
General,
(iii) A valid passport.
14. Any matter not specified here will be determined by the
Surveyor General.
K. T
HAV ALINGUM,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05,
09th January, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT TO PRIMARY SEMI SKILLED POST (PL02-2006A) WHICH
REMAIN VACANT IN SURVEY DEPARTMENT - SURVEY FIELD ASSISTANT
01. Index No. For Office use only
02. Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - S,  Tamil - T,  English - E)
(Indicate the letter/code in given cage)
03. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
03.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
05. Date of birth :
Date: Month : Y ear :
05.1 Age as at the closing date of application :––––––––––.
06. Gender : (Male - M, Female - F)
07. Permanent Address (In legible letters) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
07.1 Administrative District to which address belongs (see the
schedule I) :
District No. :
Name of the District :
07.2 Date from which the applicant is resident in the
district ? :–––––––––––––.
08. Telephone No. :
Permanent :–––––––––––––.
Mobile :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
132
09. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––––.
09.1 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
1st attempt :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
09.2 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
2nd attempt :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
10. Professional qualifications : (Mention the NVQ qualifications
that have been obtained) :–––––––––––.
11. Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any
offence ? :
Yes : No :
12.1 If yes, give details :–––––––––––.
13. Details of receipt which the examination fees paid  :
(i) Office at which the payment made :–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Am ount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
14. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found
to be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the
appointment and if it is found after the appointment, I
would be liable to dismissal from the service.
(c) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of  ........ has
been pasted in relevant cage.
(d) Further, I declare that I agree to comply with the rules
and regulations laid down by the Surveyor General in
respect of the examination.
(e) I shall not subsequently change any of the particulars
mention here.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
15. Certification of Signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................ who is submitting the
appilcation is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature under the section 13, in my presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of attestor.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Attestor :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
16. Recommendation of the Head of the Department. (Only for
the applicant who are in Public/Provincial Public Service) :
16.1 According to the personal file of the officer, during the
five years immediately prior to the closing date of
application :
Work, behavior, attendance satisfactory/unsatisfactory
All salary increments have been earned/have not been
earned
Has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary action.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2014
133
16.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can be/
cannot be released from the post he holds at present.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Official Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
SCHEDULE 01
This Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts to which
address belongs on No. 8.1 of the application.
Town/District Name Town/District No.
(i) Colombo 01
(ii) Gampaha 02
(iii) Kalutara 03
(iv) Kandy 04
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Town/District Name Town/District No.
(v) Matale 05
(vi) Nuwara Eliya 06
(vii) Galle 07
(viii) Matara 08
(ix) Hambanthota 09
(x) Kurunegala 10
(xi) Puttalam 11
(xii) Anuradhapura 12
(xiii) Polonnaruwa 13
(xiv) Badulla 14
(xv) Monaragala 15
(xvi) Rathnapura 16
(xvii) Kegalle 17
(xviii) Ampara 18
(xix) Batticaloa 19
(xx) Trincomalee 20
(xxi) Jaffna 21
(xxii) V avuniya 22
01–744