

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'23
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.12.2016
329
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 330
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"999- 2016 foieïn¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'12'23                                                                                                                             
No. 1,999 - FRIdAy , dECEMBER 23,  2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
329
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  13th January 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  30th december, 2016.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note .- (i) Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation  (Incorporation)   Bill is published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the 
Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of December 16, 2016. 
  (ii)  Study Centre for the  Advancement of Technology and  Social Welfare  (Incorporation) Bill is  published as a supplement to 
the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of December 16, 2016.
  (iii)  Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society (Incorporation)  Bill is  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Demo-
cratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of  December 16, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'23
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.12.2016
330
miscellaneous Lands notices
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, 
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
 (g)  No. sub - leasing can be  done  until the expiry  of a minimun 
period  of 05 years from 03.08.2016;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted 
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
 (i) House construction activities  must  me completed within  
the time frame specified in alienating  lands for  house  
construction purposes and the  failure to do  so will be 
deemed as a lapse of the long  term lease bond  and the 
land will have  to be re-vested in the  Government.  
 
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
six weeks of the date which this notice is published in the  
Gazettes 
to the effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land will 
be leased out as requested. 
  S. a. eranthika W. kularathne,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner(Land),
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6,   Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura", 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
23rd december, 2016.
12-794 
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/35039.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: NCP/PLC/L9/MJ/4'
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe   LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It is hereby notified that for the Purpose of Residential, Mr. 
Manathunga Mudiyanselage Jinathasa Manathunga has  requested 
on lease a State land  containing in extent about 01 Rood 35 Perches  
out of  extent Marked Part of Lot  No. -  as depicted in the  Tracing 
No. - and situated in the  Village of  Nallapambukulam with  belongs 
to the  Grama  Niladhari division of  572, Henawatta  coming  
within the area of  authority of  Mihintale   divisional  Secretariat 
in the district of  Anuradhapura. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
 
On the North by : Land of Mr. R. A. Dayani ;
On the East by : Land of R. A. Wilani  ;
On the  South by :  Mihinthala Road Reservation ;
On the West by :  Gemunu Mawatta Road Reservation.   
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the 
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : - 
 (a) Term of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years (from 15.06.1995 on 
wards);
    The Annual Rent  of the Lease.– 4% of the  undeveloped 
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief  Valuer for 
the Year 1995 ;
  Penalty .- Treble  4% of the developed  value  of  the land;
 (b) the  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease,  develop the said land,  in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
(c) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  other 
than for  the purpose of  Residential activities  ;
 (d)  this  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary/Scoping committee/Board of Investment of Sri 
Lanka  and   by other  Institutions;
 (e) the buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper 
state of repair ;
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure 
on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified 
Land Commissioner General's No. :4/10/47693. 
deputy  Land  Commissioner's No. : b7$oSn$;u$1527.  
noTIfIcATIon    mADe    unDeR   STATe    
LAnD  ReGuLATIon no. 21 (2) 
It is hereby notified that for the Commercial purpose, S/S 
Palugaswewa Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society about 
0.0994 Hectare  out of  extent marked Lot  No.- as  depicted 
in the  tracing No. -  situated in the Village of  Sewagama  
with   belongs to the  Grama Niladhari division of  No.  
200, Sewagama coming  within the area of Authority of  
Thamankaduwa Divisional  Secretariat in the  District of  
Polonnaruwa. 
02. Given below  are  the boundaries of the land  requested : 
On the North by  :   Lots 1859 and 968 ; 
On the  East by  :  Lots 1861;  

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'23
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.12.2016
331
On the South by  :  Lots 1861 and 1859; 
On the West by  :  Lots 1859. 
the land requested can  be given  on lease for the  
necessary purpose. therefore  the  Government  has intended 
to  lease out the  land  subject to other  Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions : 
 (a)  Term of the  lease  .- thirty (30) years (23.11.2016 on 
wards);
  The  annual rent of the lease .-  4% of  the commercial 
value of the  land as per  valuation of the  Chief  Valuer 
for the year  2016. this  amount of the  lease must  
be quinquennially revised in such  a manner  that  the 
amount as a  result of the revision will be  not  more  
than  50% of the  amount that  just  preceded.  
  Premium .-  Three times of the  annual rent of the lease;
 (b)   the lessees  must within one year of the  commencement 
of the lease develop  the  said  land  in such  a manner 
as to captivate the  mind  of the  Divisional Secretary;
 (c)   the lessees must not use this  land  for any purpose  
other  than  for the   Commercial purpose;  
 
 (d)  this  lease must  also  be subject to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated and  imposed by the divisional 
Secretary  and by other  institutions;
 (e)   the Buildings Constructed must  be maintained in a  
proper state of repair; 
 (f)  Once the land  is given on lease and in  the event of 
failure on the part  of the  lessees  to substantiate within  
the specified time  frame the  purpose for  which  the  
land was obtained action will be taken to  terminate 
the  lease; 
 (g)  No sub-leasing can be done  until the  expiry of a  
minimum period of 05 years from 23.11.2016; 
 (h)   Payment  of the  lease must  be regularly made and if  
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto  
lapse. 
If  acceptable reasons are not  submitted  to me  in writing  
within six  weeks  of the  date  which  this  notice is published 
in the 
Gazette  to the  effect that this  land must not  be given 
on lease, the land  will be leased out   as requested. 
 l. P. Chamika Subodhini, 
 Assistant  Land  Commissioner (Land)  
 for Land  Commissioner  General. 
Land  Commissioner General's  department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura",  
Rajamalwatta Rd., Battaramulla.
23rd december, 2016. 
12-1025
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/36313.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: Provincial/LC/L2/
Mahava/L.t/4 (11).   
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the purpose of Society,  S/R 
Coconut Land Owners Co - operative Society   has requested 
on leasse a State land  containing in extent about 0.03519 
Hectare  out of  extent  Marked Lot  No. A as depicted in the  
tracing No.  2013/31  situated in the Village of  Abbowa 
with  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari division of    Abbowa 
coming  within  the area of authority of  Alawwa  divisional  
Secretariat in the  district of  Kurunegala.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : PlayGround  ;
On the East by : Main Road  ;
On the  South by :  Village and Road  ;
On the West by : Village and Road.
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other Government approved conditions 
: - 
 (a)  Term  of the Lease.– Thirty (30)  Years,  ( from 
18.12.2013) ;
   The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 2% of the   
Undeveloped value of  the   land  as per  valuation  
of  the Chief Valuer for  the  year  2013. 
 
  Premium .- No;
 (b) the  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;

<!-- page 4 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'23
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.12.2016
332
 (c) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for  the Purpose of Society activities ; 
 (d) this  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  Committee/Board of Investment 
of  Sri Lanka   and   by other  Institutions;
 (e) the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair ;
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done  until the expiry  of a  
minimum period of 05 years from 18.12.2013 ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse. 
04. If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date which this notice is 
published in the Gazette  to the effect that this land must not 
be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
Pubudi PremadaSa  ,
 Assistant Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
"Mihikatha Medura",   Land Secretariat, 
No. 1200/6,   Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
23rd december, 2016.
12-793 
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/37068.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: Provincial/LC/L5/
Kuli.Nw/L.t 2/3.   
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the purpose of Society,  
Medelpola thrift and Credit  Co-operative Society   has 
requested on leasse a State land  containing in extent about 
20 Perches   out of  extent  Marked Lot  No. A as depicted 
in the  tracing No.  2012/26 situated in the Village of  
Medelpola with  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari division of    
No. 1188, Medelpola coming  within  the area of authority 
of  Kuliyapitiya divisional  Secretariat in the  district of  
Kurunegala.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : F. V . P. 2569 Medelpola Village   ;
On the East by : F. V . P. 2564 Medelpola Village  Land 
of B. G. B. Piyasena;
On the  South by :  Pradeshiya sab Road, thalliyaddha 
to Medelpola  ;
On the West by : F. V . P. 2564 MedelpolaVillage.
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other Government approved conditions 
: - 
 (a)  Term  of the Lease.– Thirty (30)  Years,  ( from 
18.12.2013) ;
   The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 2% of the   
Undeveloped value of  the   land  as per  valuation  
of  the Chief Valuer for  the year  2013. 
 
  Premium .- No;
 (b) the  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 (c) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for  the Purpose of Society activities ; 
 (d) this  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  Committee/Board of Investment 
of  Sri Lanka   and   by other  Institutions;
 (e) the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair ;
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done  until the expiry  of a  
minimum period of 05 years from 18.12.2013  ;
 

<!-- page 5 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'23
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 23.12.2016
333
PRINtEd  At  tHE  dEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRINtING,  SRI  LANKA.
    (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto              
lapse. 
04. If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within six weeks of the date which this notice is published 
in the Gazette  to the effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  Pubudi PremadaSa  ,
 Assistant Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
"Mihikatha Medura",   Land Secretariat, 
No. 1200/6,   Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla.
23rd december, 2016.
12-792