

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1389
1389
wxl 1"821 - 2013 cQ,s 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'07'26
No. 1,821 – FRIDAY JULY 26, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1392
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1393
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Note.—  (i) Markas Sakafathul Islamiyya  (Incorporation)  Bill is published  as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of June 21, 2013.
(ii) R/ Kuruwita Central College Past Pupils Association  (Incorporation)  Bill is published  as a supplement to the part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of June 21, 2013.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  16th  August, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd
August, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) The Catalogue of Books printed Quarterly in October to December, 2010 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.
(ii) The List of Homeopathy Medical Practitioners at the end of 31st December, 2011 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette.
(iii) The List of Registrars of Births, Marriages and Deaths in Sri Lanka at the end of 31st December, 2012 has been published in
Part VI of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1390
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1391
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
B3-B80750

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1392
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATALE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 26th August, 2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
10th July, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matale Matale Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional
of Matale Town Division Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Matale.
07–827
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MONERAGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1393
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 26th August, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
10th July, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Monaragala Wellawaya Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional
Wellawaya Division and Post of Registrar General, District Secretariat,
 Marriage Registrar of Wellawaya Moneragala.
Division (Kandyan/General)
07–828
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
RECRUITMENT  OF  BSC  (NURSING)  GRADUATES
FOR  ORIENTATION  AND CO-ORDINATING  IN  THE
COURSE  NURSING  SERVICE - 2013
APPLICATIONS are called from eligible Sri Lankan citizens to
recruit graduates who obtained BSC. Degree in Nursing from National
Universities for following course in the Nursing Service of the
Ministry of Health. Male applicants will be recruited subject to the
provisions in the service minute of Nurses concerning the
requirements of the institutes under the Ministry of Health.
01. Applicants should sit for a written competitive examination
and the number of graduates that may be recruited will be decided
concerning the merit of the written competitive examination and
the number of existing vacancies. Among the Nursing Graduates
attached to the Professors
’ Unit of the Anuradhapura Teaching
Hospital on contract basis, the nursing officers who serve
continuously upto the closing date of applications are not required
to sit for the written competitive examination. They will be recruited
concerning the priority list subject to the provisions of this Gazette
Notification.
2. Educational and other Qualifications relevant to the post. –
Should have completed the BSC. in Nursing.
3. Other general qualifications :
(a) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen,
(b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 28
years of age by 26.08.2013,
(c) The effective date of the degree should be a date prior to
the closing date of applications,
(d) Should be fit mentally and physically and willing to serve
in any part of the Island,
(e) Shoud have resided for continuous 3 years immediately
preceding the closing date within the district from which
he/she is applying,
(f) Should be not single.
4. Applicants should answer 01 hour paper of multiple choice
conducted by the Ministry of Health, which includes questions on
general knoweldge and intelligence.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1394
5. Method of Application :
(a) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen form of application attached herewith. Papers
of size A4 should be used for this. Cages from 1-9 of the
application should appear on the first side of the page
and cages from 10-13 should appear on the other side of
the page.
(b) Affix stamps to the value of Rs. 300 so as not to be
detached in the place where “Stamps” is mentioned and
the stamps should be cancelled by placing the signature
on it.
(c) Signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer
in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/an officer in the
Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service/a principle
of a Government school/a Justice of the peace/an Attorney-
at-Law/or an officer who holds a permanent and
pensionable post in the Public Service and obtains a
consolidated salary of not less than Rs. 240,360 per
annum.
(d) Applicants applying for the Nursing course should
mention the words “Recruitment of BSC. (Nursing)
Graduates for the Training in Nursing - 2013” and the
relevant degree and the academic year on the top left hand
corner of the envelope in which the duly completed
application is enclosed and should send it to reach Director
Admin. - 01, Ministry of Health, “Suwasiripaya” No.
385, Rev. Baddegama, Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10 on or before 26.08.2013 under registered
cover.
(e) Among the Nursing Graduates employed on contract basis
in the Professors’ Unit of Anuradhapura General Hospital
which is under the Ministry of Health, those who are
engaged in the service continuously upto the closing date
of applications should submit an application subject to
the conditions of this Gazette notification, if they wish
to get a permanent post. They should also submit with
the, application, a service certificate obtained from the
Head of the Institution that they have been engaged in
service up to the closing date of applications.
6. Employees in government or semi-government institutions
should send their applications through the respective Head of
Department. Applicants should note that this is an external
recruitment and they will not be re-employed in the current post in
any way even if they will be or not be able to complete the relevant
training successfully.
7. Receipt of applications will not be informed.
8. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
9. Applications which are not complying to the terms and the
relevant specimen form given in this notification will be rejected
without any notice.
10. Among the applicants who have satisfied the above
qualifications, those who are selected from the priority list which
is prepared according to the effective date of the Degree will only
be called for the interview. Applicants should submit the original
copies of the following documents at the interview :
(a) Birth certificate,
(b) Degree certificate (a certified copy should be sent with
application),
(c) Original certificates indicating the results of G . C. E.
(O/L) and G. C. E. (A/L) examinations,
(d) National Identity Card or Passport or Driving License (a
certified copy of this should be sent with the application),
(e) According to above 5(d), a certificate issued by Grama
Niladhari and countersigned by Divisional Secretary to
confirm the residence (Certificate of Grama Niladhari),
(f) Service certificate that he/she served continuously up to
the closing date of applications. (Only the officers serve
in the Professors’ Unit of the Anuradhapura General
Hospital).
11. Training Procedure :
Course Duration of Medium in which the
the course course should be followed
Training Course in 6 months English
Nursing
(i) Selected applicants will be attached to training schools to
follow the relevant orientation and co-ordinating course.
(ii) Trainees attached to the training schools will be subject
to the rules and regulations prevail in training schools and
the orders imposed by the Ministry of Health time to
time.
(iii) The training of those who do not complete the training
successfully at the end of the training period or whose
work and conduct are not satisfactory or who fail to
comply with the conditions of the training school may be
terminated without compensation at any time.
(iv) A monthly allowance of Rs. 12,920 will be paid to the
trainees during the training period.
(v) At the time you are admitted to the training school, you
should enter into a n agreement with the Director General
of Health Services that you will complete the training
successfully, not leave the training course and serve in
the relevant post in the hospital or Department of Health
Services of the Provincial Council or Line Ministry to
which you are appointed at least for a period of 6 years if
an appointment is gratned after completing the training
entirely and should sign a Bond of Security. In case he/
she discontinues the training, leaves the training, his/her
training is terminated as per above Section iii, or fails to
serve in the relevant post in the Department of Health

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1395
Services for a period of 6 years after the appointment,
he/she should pay the allowance paid to him/her during
the training period, expenses borne by the government
and the amount of the Bond of Security to the Department
of Health Services. If not, legal actions will be taken to
charge that amount as per the agreement.
12. Terms of Employment.– At the end of the training, it will be
decided to grant/not to grant permanent appointments in the relevant
post concerning the number of vacancies existing for the time being.
Accordingly, if the Ministry of Health decides to grant permanent
appointments in the relevant post, actions will be taken to appoint
the candidates in terms of the conditions in the recruitment procedure
relevant to the course concerned for the training and concerning the
vacancies to the post of Staff Nurisng Officer - Grade III on the
salary scale Rs. 15,620 - 4x180 - 6x240 -11x320 -20x360 -
Rs. 28,500 as per MT 7/2006(A) of Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006(iv).
13. Appilcants should be very careful in mentioning about their
educational and other qualifications. If the above certificates were
proved to be fraudulent after recruitment to the training or
appointment, they would be directed to the Criminal Investigations
Department to take necessary legal actions and the appointment of
such applicant will be cancelled and he/she will be dismissed from
the training/post and his/her name will be entered into the index
which contains the names of those who will not be recruited to the
public service again and actions will be taken to charge the allowance
paid to the applicant during the period of training, expenses borne
by the government and money relevant to the security.
14. Selected applicants should submit themselves to a medical
examination within the first month of the training to prove that
they are physically and mentally fit for the relevant training and to
serve in any part of the island and the aplicants found to be unfit by
the medical examination will be disqualified to remain in continue
the course.
15. All recruited as above will be subject to all laws and rules
relevant to the officers in public service, provisions of the
Establishment Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
polices ordered by the Department of Health Services, Financial
and other regulations and laws, rules and orders imposed by the
government from time to time.
16. If any problem arises with regard to any fact covered or
uncovered by this gazette notification, decision of the Secretary to
the Ministry of Health will be final and conclusive in case of any
inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English, texts of this
gazette notification the text in Sinhala will prevail.
17. This Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities at the
training schools for the aplicants selected for the training. If hostel
facilities are provided estimated rent for a housing room and bills
for electricity and water will be charged.
Dr. Y . D. N
IHAL JAY ATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya", No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
Specimen Form of Application
RECRUITMENT OF BSC (NURSING) GRADUATES FOR ORIENTATION AND CO-ORDINATING IN
THE COURSE NURSING SERVICE - 2013
(Read properly before completing the application)
* Name of the course applying for (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––. Relevant Code No. for the
* Name of the course applying for (In English) :–––––––––––. training course (According to the
Gazette Notification)
01. ( a) Last name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) Ex. : A. B. C. SILV A
(b) Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
(c) Name in full (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––. (a copy should be attached)
03. Postal Address : In Sinhala/Tamil In English
.................................... ..................................
.................................... ..................................
.................................... ..................................
.................................... ..................................

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1396
04. ( a) Permanent address : In Sinhala/Tamil  In English
.................................. ...................................
.................................. ...................................
.................................. ...................................
.................................. ...................................
(b) Telephone No. : Mobile :–––––––––––. Residential :–––––––––––.
(c) District of residence : In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––. English :–––––––––––.
(d) Are you a permanent resident in the above District : Yes/No :–––––––––––.
(e) If "Yes" since when :–––––––––––.
05. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––.
Age as at 26.08.2013 :
Years :–––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––.
06. Gender :
Male Female (Mark "3" in the relevant box)
07. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :
Y es No (Mark " 3" in the relevant box)
08. Civil status :
Married Single
09. Height : Feet :–––––––––––. Inches :–––––––––––.
10. Educational qualifications :
Name of the Degree Pass Grade point Average (GP A) Name of the University Academic Year
11. Have you been convicted for any charge by a court ?
Y es No (Mark " 3" in the relevant box)
If so, give details :–––––––––––.
Certification of the Applicant :
(a) I solemnly declare that I filled the application after reading and understanding the Gazette notification thoroughly, subject to
all the conditions mentioned in it and I do not take part in any other full time course and the particulars given by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me or any of the particulars mentioned in the application is proved to be incorrec t,
I am liable to be disqualified for the training and to be dismissed from service if proved so after appointment.
(c) I further declare that I am well aware that this is an external re-employed and I will not be reinstated in the present post i n any
way whether I cmoplete the training relevant to me successfully or not.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Stamps valid of Rs. 300

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1397
13. Attestation of the Applicant's Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................... who submit this application is known to me personally and he/ she placed
his/her signature in my presence on .................................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the Attesting Officer :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Official frank of the Attester :–––––––––––.
14. Certificate of the Head of the Department if the Applicant is in Public Service/Provincial Public Service (cut off the words  not
relevant).
(i) I certify that the above applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ has been serving in this Department in the  post of
....................
(ii) I certify that the particulars given in the application are true and he/she, can/cannot be released from service if selected for the
post.
(iii) I further state that, I made him/her understand that this is an external recruitment and he/she will not be re-employed in the
present post in any away whether he/she successfully completes the training or not.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the Department :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Official frank of the Head of the Department :–––––––––––.
07–823
–––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 2
Grade II of Sri Lanka Teacher Educator's Service - 2013
THE Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 2-II of Sri
Lanka Teacher Educator's Service will be held in Colombo in October,
2013.
2. The syllabus of this examination and other provisions have
been published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,070/13 dated 11th
March, 1999. This syllabus and other provisions are indicated
below for the convenience of the applicants.
An officer may appear for this Efficiency Bar Examination for
the prescribed subjects in one instance or in different instances.
(a) Syllabus :
Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
01. General Management and 100 1 1/2 hours
Establishment Work. Regulations
in the Government Establishment
Code with special reference to
Chapters I, II, III, IV , V, VII,
VIII, IX, XII, XIII, XIV , XXIV ,
XXVIII, XXX and XXXI.
02. Financial Regulations
With special reference to Chapter I 100 1 1/2 hours
II, V , VIII, XII, and XIV in Part I
of the Government Financial
Regulations

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1398
03. Education Law
Candidates knowledge expected 100 2 hours
relating to the following Ordinances
and Acts of Parliament
(i) Education Acts, No. 31 of 1939 and regulations framed
there under,
(ii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 5 of 1960,
(iii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Supplementary
Provisions) Act, No. 8 of 1961,
(iv) Public, Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968 amended by
Public Examinations (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1976,
(v) Assisted Schools (Special Provisions) Act, No. 65 of
1981,
(vi) National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985,
(vii) Colleges of Education Act, No. 30 of 1986,
(viii) National Education Commission Act, No. 19 of 1991,
(ix) National Authority on Teacher Education Act, No. 32 of
1997,
(x) Constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference to the
13th Amendment and Chapter 3 on Fundamental rights,
(xi) Enactments made by Provincial Councils relating to the
Education.
P.  S .– Applicants should obtain at least 40% marks for each
subjects for passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
3. Language medium of the examination :
(i) This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium and the candidates will not be permitted to change
the medium applied for on a later date.
(ii) Applicants may select the language, medium of this
examination as per the language medium of the competitive
examination they entered to the public service and those
who entered the public service without a competitive
examination may select the language of this examination,
as per the language medium of the examination they were
qualified to join the public service.
4. If it is revealed that any candidates had appeared for the
examination in a medium he/she is not entitled to appeared, his/her
candidature will be cancelled.
5. Application should be prepared in conformity with the
following specimen form. Application should be prepared by
including all items in the 1st page.  Application which do not confirm
to the Specimen Application and those with incomplete information
will be rejected. It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the
application with the applicant. In preparing the application the
name of the examination mentioned at the top of the application
should be indicated in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala
applications and in English in addition to Tamil in Tamil Application.
6. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examination and applicants are bound to abide by the rules and
regulations imposed by him for conducting this examination.
7. Applications should be sent under registered post addressed
to Commissioner General of Examination, Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch, Department of Examination, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla to reach him on or before 19th August, 2013. Any
application received after this date will be rejected. The words
"Efficiency Bar Examination - Sri Lanka Teacher Educator's Service
2-II" should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the application.
8. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the
applicants the Commissioner General of Examinations will published
a newspaper advertisement to that effect. In the event of any
applicant not receiving his admission card even 2 or 3 days after the
publication of the above advertisement, he should promptly inform
the Department of Examinations as indicated in the advertisement.
It will be more useful if you forward your request to the Department
of Examinations by fax along with a certified copy of the application,
the receipt for payment of fees, receipt of the registration of
application and a fax number to send the admission cards when the
address is outside Colombo.
9. Complains from applicants who do not confirm to the
requirements of paragraph No. 08 above will not be entertained.
10. Applicants should submit their admission card with the
signature attested to the supervisor of the examination hall on the
date of the examination.
11. It is the responsibility of the applicants to submit evidence
to prove their identity at the examination hall and for this purpose
any one of the following documents will be valid :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
the Department of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A Valid Passport.
12. The issue of an admission card to an applicant should not be
treated as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the requirements
to appear for the examination.
13. It has been decided to charge examination fees from the
applicants who appear for this examination on the following basis :
(a) No fees will be charged from applicants appearing for
the first time for the whole examination or for part of
the examination.
(b) Fee for the whole examination Rs. 450
Fee for one subject Rs. 150
Subject Subject Marks Time
No.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1399
A margin of the receipt obtained for payment of the fee at any
Divisional Secretary's offices in the Island to the credit of Revenue
Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations
should be firmly affixed at the place provided for same in the
application (Retaining a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant
will be useful).
14. Issuing Result. – A result sheet of all the applicants sat for
the examination will be sent to the Secretary, Ministry of Education,
by the Department of Examination.
S. M. G
OTABAYA JAYARATHNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
12th July, 2013.
APPLICATION
E
FFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS 2 GRADE II OF
SRI LANKA TEACHER EDUCATOR'S SERVICE - 2013
Application should be forwarded through Head of Institution by
registered post to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(Name of the examination should be indicated on the top left
hand corner of the envelope)
Language medium of the examination : Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Relevant Number to be written in the cage)
1. ( a) Name with initials at end :–––––––––––––.
(In English Cpaital Letters) Ex.- SILV A, A. B.
(b) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
(In English Capital letters)
2. Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3. (i) Designation :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name and address of NCOE/TC/Teacher center at which
the applicant is serving  :–––––––––––––.
(Admission card will be sent to this address)
4. Private address (In English capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
5. Please indicate clearly the subject number and subject appearing
as indicated under (a) in para 2 of the Notice :
Subject No. Subject
6. Whether you have appeared for the complete examination or
part of the examination earlier and so indicate the subject, year
appeared and the medium :
Subject Year Medium Index  No.
7. Examination fees paid :
Fix the receipt here after paying the examination fees.
Keeping a photocopy with the applicant will be useful.
8. I hereby declare that the above information are true and correct
and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the language
medium indicated in para 03 of the Gazette Notification. I will
abide by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner
General of Examinations relating to conducting this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examination,
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations,
Forwarded,
01. I certify that this applicant is eligible to sit this examination
and he/she is qualified to appear in the language medium indicated
under para 03 of Gazette Notification.
02. I also certify that the applicant has paid the prescribed
examination fees and that he has fixed the receipt.
–––––––––––,
Signature of President NCOE/Head TC
Signature and Designation.
Date :–––––––––––––.
07-853

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1400
SRI  LANKA  EDUCATIONAL  ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICE
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in
Class III – Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in Class III in the Sri Lanka Educational Administrative
Service will be held in 2013 November in Colombo.
02. The Syllabus and other provisions relating to this
Examination have been published in the Gazette Extraordinary  of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,225/32
dated 01.03.2002. The syllabus and other provisions are indicated
below for convenience.
Examination Procedure :
(a) The First Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the
following subjects :
Subject Number 01 General Administration -
Constitution of Sri Lanka.
Provision of the Establishment
Code and other regulations of
the government.
Subject Number 02 Finance
Subject Number 03 Education, Educational Law,
Administration and
Supervision.
(b) An Officer may take up the subjects of the 1st Efficiency
Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or on
separate occasions.
(c) Each paper will be of 3 hour duration.
03. Syllabus of Examination :
(01) General Administration  :
(a) The Ceylon Government Order in Council, 1946 and
1947 (Chapter 973) ;
The Citizenship Act, No. 18 of 1948 (Chapter 349) ;
The constitution adopted and enacted on 22nd May,
1972 ;
Registration of persons eligible to vote - Act, No. 44
of 1980 ;
Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 19 of 1981 ;
Referendum Act, No. 07 of 1981 ;
Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981 ;
The constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(b) Office and Field Organization Methods :
The Establishment Code and other Government
Regulations ;
Chapters I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, IX, X, XI, XVI, XXV ,
XXVI, XXVII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII,
XLVII, XLVIII of the Establishment Code.
(02) Finance :
(a) The Financial Regulation of the Government – Part I
(Except Chapter I) ;
(b) The Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure of the
current year, e. g.- their arrangements ; the Head of
Revenue, Finance and Appropriation Acts ;
(c) Ordinances and other Legislation relating to Specific
Accounts dealt with in Education Offices.
(03) Education, Educational Law, Administration and
Supervision :
(a) Education Law – Candidates are excepted to be familiar
with following Ordinances and Acts of Parliament :
* Education Ordinance No. 31 of 1939 ;
* Amendment Ordinance No. 26 of 1947 ;
* Amendment Act, No. 05 of 1951 ;
* Amendment Act, No. 43 of 1953 ;
* Code of Regulations for Government Schools ;
* Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 05 of 1960 ;
* Assisted Schools and Training Colleges
(Supplementary Provisions) Act, No. 08 of 1961 ;
* Education (Change of Designations) Act, No. 35
of 1973 ;
* Pirivena Act, No. 64 of 1979 ;
* The Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 1981 ;
* National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of
1985.
(b) Education Administration :–
1. Policies of the Ministry of Education :
(i) Ministry of Education ;
(ii) Organization and functions of the Ministry of
Education and the Departmental Institutions
under the Ministry including District
Department ;
(iii) Educational planning at National and Regional
levels ; Aims and objectives, methods (including
school mapping), implementation etc.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1401
2. School Management, School community
relationship ;
3. Educational Management Information Systems ;
4. Special Education Programmes.
(c) Educational Supervision :
* Scheme for school supervision and criteria used in
evaluation of teacher performance ;
* Continuous evaluation programmes in School ;
* Self evaluation programs in Schools ;
* School supervision by the District Departments
and the Ministry of Education ;
* Validation of Internal Evaluation by External Teams.
(Candidates are advised to be thorough with the
Circulars, Manuals and other publications issued
by the Ministry of Education).
Reference :–
* Asian Institutes of Educational Planning and
Administration (1970) ;
* Modern Management Techniques in Educational
Administration ;
* A Report of a Seminar - New Delhi ;
* Barry and Tye (1975) Running a School - Temple
Smith London ;
* Bush T. Glatter, R. Good, C. Riches, (eds. 1980)
Schools ;
* Approaches to School Management, Harper and
Row ;
* Dr. Khan Mohideen Sheriff (1983)  ;
* School Administration, New Delhi ;
* Ministry of Education - Education in Ceylon
(1969) ;
* A Centenary Volume Part II, Part III Ministry of
Education and Cultural Affairs, Ceylon ;
* Open University (1981) Policy Making,
Organization and Leadership in Schools (Block 4
of Course E 323) Open University Press, London
Shipman, Murten (1983) in School Evaluation,
Heineman Education Books, London Report on
the Management Reforms in the Ministry of
Education 1984.
(04) Total marks allocated for each paper is 100. A Candidates
should obtain 40% or above of the total marks to pass
each paper.
(05)  Language Medium of the Examination :
(i) Examination would be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Language ;
(ii) Candidates can answer the question papers either in
the Official Language or in the National Language ;
(iii) Candidates can answer in the Language medium of the
Competitive Examination he passed to enter the Public
Service or if there was no Competitive Examination,
Language medium of qualifying examination to enter
the Public Service.
(06) If it is detected that a candidate has answered the question
papers in a language medium for which he is not entitled
his/her candidature will be cancelled. He will not be allowed
to change the language medium applied for, at a later stage.
(07) Application should be prepared and submitted by using a
A4 size paper in conformity with the specimen form
indicated below. (Item 01 to 05 should appear in the first
page and the remaining items should appear in the second
page). In the Sinhala application the name of the
examination should be indicated in English in addition to
Sinhala and in the Tamil application the name of the
examination should be indicated in English in addition to
Tamil. Relevant Information in the application should be
clearly written in candidate's own handwriting.
Applications which are not in conformity with the
specimen form and those which are incomplete will be
rejected without notification. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the application with the candidate.
Candidates should be vigilant as to whether the duly
completed application is in conformity with the specimen
form and it should be noted that the application will be
rejected if it is not so.
(08) The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examination and the candidates are bound by
the rules prescribe by him for conducting examinations.
These rules are indicated at the end of this notification.
(09) Applications should be forwarded under registered post
through Heads of Departments addressed to the
Commissioner General of the Examinations, Organizations
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka,
Examinations Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, to
be received on or before 26.08.2013. Name of the
Examinations should be written on the top left hand corner
of the envelope. Any application received after this date
will be rejected.
(10) Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the
candidates a news paper notification to that effect will be
published by the Department of Examination. If the
admission cards are not received even after 02 or 03 days

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1402
of the newspaper notice it should be notified to the
Department of Examinations according to instructions in
the newspaper notice. A certified photocopy of the
application retained with the candidate, the registration
receipt and the fax number for sending the admission card
if the candidate is resident outside Colombo should be
sent to the Department of Examinations. A copy of the
letter of request sent to the Department of Examinations
should be retained with the candidate. (Fax No. : 011-
2784232) :
(i) Name of Examination ;
(ii) Full name of Candidate ;
(iii) Address of the candidates in full ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered letter
number and Post Office.
(11) Complains from candidates who fail to fulfill the
requirements indicated in para 9 above will not be
considered.
(12) (i) Every candidate should get his/her signature attested
and the admission card with attested signature should
be submitted to the supervisor on the first day of
examination.
(ii) At the examination hall it is the responsibility of the
candidates to produce evidence in proof of their
identity and for this purpose only the Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons
or a valid Passport will be accepted.
(13) Fees for examinations will be charged as follows. The
relevant examination fee should be paid at any District or
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to revenue head
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
The receipt obtained for the payment from the District/
Divisional Secretariat should be pasted in the relevant
box of the application form. (It is advisable to retain a
copy of the receipt with you)
(a) First sitting (fees won't be levied for the whole
examination or part of it) ;
(b) Thereafter, for each sitting : Rs. cts.
For the whole examination 1,000 0
For one subject 500 0
(14) (i) The issue of an admission card should not be
considered an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the
qualifications to appear for the examination.
(ii) All candidates are subject to the rules and regulations
given by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Any candidate who breaches such ruels and
regulations will be subject to the punishment given
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
S. M. G
OTTABAYA JAYARA THNA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
"Isurupaya",
Battaramulla,
28th June, 2013.
APPLICATION FORM
(for official use only)
F
IRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF
THE SRI LANKA EDUCATIONAL SERVICE – 2013
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha III jeks mka;sfha ks,OdÍka
i|yd jk ld¾hlaIu;d lvbï úNd.h - 2013
(To be forwarded to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
by registered post through the Head of the Department)
Language medium for the examination :
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Relevant number to be written within cage)
(Name of examination should be written on the top left corner
of the envelope).
01. ( a) Name with initials with initials at the end (English capital
letters) :–––––––––––.
Example : SILV A, S. A.
(b) Name denoted by initials  :–––––––––––.
(in English capital letters)
02. Address :
(i) Official Address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address  :–––––––––––.
(iii) Address for dispatch of admission card (in English capital
letters)  :–––––––––––.
(iv) Telephone No.  :–––––––––––.
03. Subjects offered with subject numbers as indicated in para
02(a) in the notification to be written clearly :
Subject Number Subject  :–––––––––––.
Subject Number Subject  :–––––––––––.
Subject Number Subject  :–––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No.  :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2013
1403
05. Date of birth :
Y ear Month Date
06. (i) Designation  :–––––––––––.
(ii) Department/Zonal Education Office/Divisional Education
Office/School  :–––––––––––.
07. State whether you have appeared for this examination
previously, in whole or in part and if so state year, subjects
and medium in which answers were written :
Y ear Subject Medium
..................... ..................... ....................
..................... ..................... ....................
..................... ..................... ....................
08. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the
medium indicated in para 06 above. I also agree to abide by all
the rules and regulations of the examination. I also declare that
I will be subject to the rules and regulations to be imposed
relating to this examination by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
09. Details of the receipt :
(i) Name of the Secretariat Office where you paid the
examination fee :–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt Number and Date :–––––––––––.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(iii) The Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Paste the receipt received after payment here.
(A photocopy to be retained by the candidate) only if relevant
–––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examination  :
Submitted,
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear as above is
eligible to sit this examination and that he/she is entitled to sit in the
language medium indicated by him/her in para 6.
I mention further that the receipt for payment is affixed above (*).
–––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of the
Head of the Department and Official Frank.
Date :–––––––––––.
(*) To be deleted when payment of fees is not requested.
07–710