

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1171
1171
wxl 1"718 - 2011 wf.daia;= ui 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'08'05
No. 1,718 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 05, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1174
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1175
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th August, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th July,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,717 of 29.07.2011 was not published .

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1172
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1173
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1174
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th of September,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
12th July, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Millaniya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
 of Raigam Koralaya  and Births and Deaths   General, District Secretariat,
 of Pelpola Division   Kalutara.
08–18
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1175
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th of September,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
19th July, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Akurana Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
General) of Harispattuwa and Births and   General, District Secretariat, Kandy
Deaths of Udagampaha No. 01 Division
Kandy Pathahewaheta Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
General) of Pathahewaheta and Births and   General, District Secretariat, Kandy
Deaths of Gamdahaya South No. 02
Division
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Additional of Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(Kandyan/General) of Hiyarapitiya Area   General, District Secretariat, Kandy
in Udunuwara Yatinuwara Division
Kandy Deltota Post of Additional Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(Kandyan/General) of Deltota   General, District Secretariat, Kandy
Pathahewaheta Division
08–127
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  AYURVEDA
Recruitment for the Training of Ayurveda
Pupil Nurses – 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from those who possess following
qualifications for the Training of Pupil Nurses under the Department
of Ayurveda :
01. Educational qualifications :
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in one
sitting in all four Science stream subjects under the old
syllabus or in all three Science subjects in one sitting if
under the new syllabus ; and
(b) Should have passed G .. C. E. (O/L) examination in not more
than two sittings in 06 subjects with 04 credits, inclusive of
Sinhala/Tamil, Mathematics and Science. Certified photostat
copies of the certificate of above two examinations should
be attached to the application for the confirmation of
educational qualifications.
02. Other qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 35
years of age as at 01.01.2011,

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1176
(c) Should not be less than 04 feet and 10 inches in height,
(d) Should be unmarried,
(e) When applications are forwarded by the children of
Traditional Ayurvedic Physicians a certificate from the
Ayurvedic Medical Council together with a Certificate
from the Grama Niladari should be submitted to establish
the fact that the applicant's Mother/Father is a Traditional
Physician.
03. Mode of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared in conformity with the
specimen application form appended below, using both
sides of the 13" x 8" sized paper.
(b) Duly completed applications should be sent under
registered cover to the address of Registrar, Examination
Branch, Navinna, Maharagama on or before 30.08.2011
with the letters marked, "Recruitment for the Training of
Ayurvedic Pupil Nurses – 2011" on the top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing the applications. Belated
applications will be rejected and the Department of
Ayurveda will not take responsibility for the loss or delays
of applications in post.
Applicant's signature should be certified by an officer
in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education Service/
Government Accountants' Service/Principal of a
Government School/a Justice of Peace/an Attorney at Law
or by a Government Officer drawing not less than an
initial salary of Rs. 240,360 per year, or a retired person
who held above mentioned positions.
04. Mode of Selection and Training Procedure :
(a) The Department of Ayurveda will hold an open written
competitive examination to select the eligible from among
the applicants and those who score the highest marks will
be called for the interview. For the competitive examination
all the applicants are required to answer the following one
hour question paper which will be prepared according to
the syllabus stated below :
Syllabus : Inteligence Test
General Knowledge
Subject - related Knowledge
(b) Marks will be given at the interview for those who are
called for the interview and selections will be made
according to the marks scored at the competitive
examination and the interview. The Interview Board will
give marks on the following criteria :
1. Professional knowledge and experience,
2. Maximum 30 marks for the children of Traditional
Physicians,
3. Personality.
Selected applicants as Ayurvedic Pupil Nurses will be
directed to the Department of Ayurveda to follow a three
year training course in Sinhala/Tamil medium.
(c) At the time of enrolment for the training, the trainees will
be supplied with a set of rules and regulations in the
Department of Ayurveda. They will be subject to these
rules as well as other rules which may be imposed from
time to time.
(d) Trainees who fail in the prescribed examinations or whose
work and conduct are unsatisfactory or those who fail to
comply with the conditions of examinations or leave will
be at risk to have terminated their training at any time
without compensation.
Trainees will not be entitled to any type of leave during
the training and in the event of their absence a
proportionate amount of money will be deducted from
their allowance, depending on the number of days absent.
However, it is compulsory to maintain an attendance of
80% in each year to sit for the examination.
(e) Allowances will be paid for trainees as follows, during
their training at the Department of Ayurveda :–
1st year monthly Rs. 12,920
2nd year monthly Rs. 13,040
3rd year monthly Rs. 13,160.
(f) If any trainee removed himself from the training or left it
during the period of training he or she should refund to
the Department the allowances paid to him/her together
with the other expenses incurred by the state on the
training. For this purpose the applicant should sign an
agreement with two sureties who receive a confirmable
income of Rs. 300,000 or over per annum.
05. Conditions and Agreements on Non-marriage :
(a) All applicants should be unmarried at the time they make
their applications and they should compulsorily remain
as bachelor/spinsters during their three year training
period. To prove that they are unmarried they should
attach to the application a certificate from the Grama
Niladari, certified by the Divisional Secretary.
(b) Pupil Nurses are required to sign an agreement with the
Commissioner of Ayurveda at the time of their admission
to the school of nursing, the Department of Ayurveda to
the effect that they will successfully complete the training
and serve in the Department of Ayurveda after the training,
till they retire from service. The Commissioner of
Ayurveda will determine the period of this training from
time to time.
06. Terms of Engagement :
(a) On the results of the final examination which will be
conducted after the above training, the Commissioner of
Ayurveda will give appointments on the salary scale
relevant to the Post of Nurse Grade III, when the vacancies
occur in the posts.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1177
(b) This appointment will be subjected to a period of
probation for three years and it will be pensionable.
07. Conditions of Service and Salary Scale :
(a) Appointments will be given to existing vacancies in the
posts of Nursing Officers Grade III on the Salary Scale of
Rs. 15,080 - 5x150 - 9 x240 -7x240 - 20x320 - Rs. 26,420
as mentioned in MT 7-2006 of P . A. Circular 06/2006.
(b) All officers in the Nursing Service are subject to the
provisions of the Establishment Code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Conditions of the minutes
of Ayurvedic Nurses, Transfers as per the policies of the
Department of Ayurveda, Financial and other Regulations
and Rules and Orders imposed by the Government from
time to time.
P. S. K. R. W
EERAKOON,
Commissioner of Ayurveda,
Department of Ayurveda.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
RECRUITMENT FOR THE TRAINING OF PUPIL NURSES – 2011
Index No. :
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala – S,  Tamil – T
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
01. ( a) Last name with initials (in capital letters) :–––––––––.
(b) Full name (in Sinhala) :–––––––––.
02. Postal address (in English) :–––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent address (in Sinhala) :–––––––––.
(ii) District (in English) :–––––––––.
04. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Date :–––––––––.
05. (i) Sex :
Male
Female
Put (3) in the appropriate cage.
(ii) Civil status :
Married
Unmarried
Put (3) in the appropriate cage.
06. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :
Yes
No
Put (3) in the appropriate cage.
07. National Identity Card No. :
08. Height : ................. ft. ........................ inches
09. ( a) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level)
Examination (Science subject stream) (Attach copies of
marks) :
Year :––––––––. I ndex No. :––––––––.
Subject Grade For office Su bject Grade For office
use use
13 .
2. 4.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination :
First sitting :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––.
Subject Grade For office Su bject Grade For office
use use
17 .
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
Second sitting :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––.
Subject Grade For office Su bject Grade For office
use use
17 .
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
10. Have you ever been convicted before a court of law ?
If yes give details :–––––––––. Y es
No
11. Certificate of the applicant :
(a) I respectfully state that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1178
(b) I am aware that if this statement made by me is found to be
incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to
dismiss from service if the detection was made after the
appointment.
––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
12. Attestation of the applicant's signature :
I do hereby certify that .................... who forward this application
is known to me personally and that he/she place his/her signature
before me on .....................
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
with Official Seal.
Date :–––––––––.
Details of Attester :
Full name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
08–61
––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR   EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS
IN  CLASS  II  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2010(II)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants' Service will
be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations in the
month of November, 2011 as per Provisions of para 5.2 of the
approved service minute of Public Management Assistants' Service
published in the Government Gazette of the Democratic Socialists
Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1372/23 dated 24.12.2004.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class II of the Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa,
Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.
The list of relevant towns and town numbers are given below. The
Commissioner - General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel
any center due to insufficiency of candidates or any other reason
and decide an alternative as per the candidate's second preference
of towns. The relevant section of the application should be filled
by referring to the table of towns and town numbers given below. It
will not be allowed to change subsequently the town/towns
indicated :
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0. (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner-General of Examinations for
violation of these rules and regulations.
4.0. Eligibility.- Officers who have been appointed to posts in
Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service are eligible to
appear for this examination.
5.0. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/herself. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department
of Examinations, Organization & Foreign Examinations
Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla , on or before 05th September,
2011. The name of the examination should be indicated at the top
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Incomplete applications, too, will not be accepted.
6.0. Identity of the Candidates.–  Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner-General of Examinations. All candidates are bound
to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examination with regard to the conducting
of this examination. Further, candidates will be subjected to the

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1179
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violation of those rules and regulations.
7.0. Applications.- Applcations should be prepared in a paper of
"A4" size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page. The application could be typewritten but it should be
filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised not to send more than one application
or photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
Officers appearing for the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings, Rs.
400 for the whole examination and Rs. 200 for only one subject
should be paid at any post-office islandwide to be credited to
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt obtained thus should be affixed to the
relevant cage of the applications form. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. it will not be allowed
to transfer the fee paid for this examination in favour of another.
8.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled
the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates.  If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in
hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your  possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
9.0. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0. Candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the language
medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
11.0. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
(For further details, refer to Para. 5:2 of Public Management
Assistants’ Service Minute.).
12.0. For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers
should prepare and fill the application forms in the official language.
13.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will release
the results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and the lists of names of the candidates who have passed
the exam will be published in the Government Gazette of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14.0. Examination Procedure.-  Candidates should sit for a
written examination, which will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
(01) Office Systems and 100 02 Hrs. 01
Procedure
(02) Accounting Systems
adopted in the
Government Offices
100 02 Hrs. 02
      Total 200
14.1 Office Systems and Procedure.- This paper is intended
to test the candidate’s knowledge of office systems
adopted in Government offices and his/her ability of
practical application of the knowledge. This paper
consists of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions,
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type
questions, 03 out of 04 questions should
be answered, duration is 90 minutes, 75
marks.
14.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government Offices.-
Candidate’s knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted
in Government office, books and records controlling
accounts and orders and instructions of the Treasury
issued in relation to that and his/her ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. This paper
consists of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions,
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions,
03 out of 04 questions should be answered,
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1180
15.0. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final, in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
18th July, 2011.
Specimen Form of Application
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE – 2010 (II), (2011)
(As per this exam notification, only the officers in Class II of
Public Management Assistants' Service of the Combined Services
shall be eligible to forward applications)
(For office use only)  
(Indicate the name and the number Town Town No.
  of the town in which you wish to sit
  for the examination as per Para 2.0 1.
  of the Gazette notification) 2.
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
Medium of examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :————.
(In block capitals)
Eg : SILV A M. A.
1.2 Name with initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In block capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Place of work and address :
2.1 Names and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.2 Names and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:————.
(In block capitals)
3.0 Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting :
Subject Subject No.
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :————.
6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :————.
6.3 Date of entry into Class II of Public Management
Assistants’ Service :————.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––.
7.2 If not, the fee paid :————.
7.3 For affixing the receipt :
Affix the receipt securely here.
(It would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium
indicated above. The receipt obtained by paying Rs. ......................
to a post office at ................. has been affixed hereto. Further, I
agree to be bound by the rules and regulations of the Examinations
Act and also to the decision taken by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations regarding this examination.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.
Note.- The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of such Head of Department.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1181
ATTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I certify that ....................................... who is an officer in my
office and who is known to me personally placed his/her signature
in my presence this ..................................... day of
..........................................., he/she has paid the relevant examination
fee and that the receipt has been affixed.
—–––––––––———,
Signature and official stamp of the
person attesting.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The particulars furnished by the candidate have been
examined ;
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
SRI  LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE,  SRI  LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE,  SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFIC
SERVICE  AND  SRI  LANKA  ARCHITECTS'  SERVICE  -  2011(II)
IT is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language Proficiency Tests for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative
Service, Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service will be held in Colombo during weekends
from 22nd October, 2011 to 20th November, 2011, by the Director of Sri Lanka institute of Development Administration, under the
supervision and direction of Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
02. Time tables will be prepared in such a manner that officers may be able to sit for both efficiency bar examinations in one
occasion.
03. Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language proficiency Tests which are due to be held in respect of the above services
will be as follows :
Serial Name of the Examination Code
No.
1. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service A
2. 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service B
3. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service C
4. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service D
5. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service E
6. Second Language Test (For all relevant services) F
04. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is compulsory t o
pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period.
05. This examination will be conducted by the Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration and the candidates
will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to the same. Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed
by Disciplinary Authority for violation of these rules and regulations.
(ii) This officer belongs to combined services ;
(iii) The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the
examination earlier ;
(iv) *He/she has affixed the receipt obtained by paying the
relevant fee to this application form since *he/she has
appeared for the examination ; and
(v) The candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
————,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
08-120

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1182
06. Application should conform to the specimen appended hereto. Applicants should prepare their own applications according to
the specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to Direc tor,
Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration, 28/10, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 07 to reach him on or before 05th September,
2011. Name of the examination should be clearly indicated in top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is forwarded to
Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
07. Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper of A4 size in such a manner that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page and the remaining on the other pages. The application could be typewritten but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by
candidate’s own handwriting. Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended and candidates are advised not to sen d
photocopies of the application.
7.1 Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing in the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and
Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/
her complies with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of
the completed application form.
7.2 Examination Fees.– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees.
However, for subsequent sittings, officers should pay Rs. 115 for the whole examination or for more than one subject and
further they are required to pay Rs. 75 if they sit for only for one subject. The examination fee should be credited to
Account No. 02323276 operated in the name of Director, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration at Bank of
Ceylon, Independence Square branch and the receipt obtained should be affixed to the application. Under no circumstances,
the fee will be refunded nor transferred in respect of any other examination.
08. Director, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all
candidates whose applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate
has fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates will not be allowed to sit the examination without such admission cards.
09. A notification will be published in newspapers by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should
be taken to notify the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration in the manner specified in the advertisement. you may take action
to obtain the admission card by sending a letter along with a certified photocopy of the application form and receipt of registration. In case
of applicants outside Colombo, letter should contain a fax number to which the admission card should be sent. Further inquiries made at later
occasions by the candidates who fail to forward above documents will not be entertained.
10. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who are issued admissions by the Director of Sri Lanka Institute
of Development Administration enabling them to sit the examination. Travelling allowances will not be paid.
11. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of
the Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
12. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. If it is found that a candidate has appeared for the examination
in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant will be cancelled.
13. Scheme of Examination.– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows :–
13.1 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix “C” of Sri Lanka Administrative
Service Minute published in the Gazette No. 1419/03 dated 14.11.2005)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1183
The subjects of this examination are given below :–
Serial Subjects Duration Subject
Number Number
01 Constitutional Law and Administrative Law 03 hours 01
02 The legal systems of Sri Lanka 03 hours 02
03 Criminal Law and Evidence Law 03 hours 03
04 Administration 03 hours 04
05 Economics 03 hours 05
06 Sociology 03 hours 06
07 English 03 hours 07
13.1.1 Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01)
A question paper based on the following :–
(i) The structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the Second Republic
Constitution.
(ii) The Executive, President of the Republic, Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister, Central Government
Departments and the Public Service.
(iii) Administration of Justice.
(iv) Judicial control over Administration.
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and Fundamental Duties.
(vi) Delegated Legislation.
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities.
(viii) Fundamental Rights.
13.1.2 The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 02)
A question paper based on the following :–
(i) The Legal History of Sri Lanka
(ii) The Organization of the Courts
(iii) The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 6)
(iv) The Act, No. 44 of 1971 Administration of Justice.
13.1.3 Criminal Law and Evidence Law (Subject No. 03)
A question paper based on the following :–
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinance.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain 35% of marks for each of the subjects mentioned under 13.1.1., 13.1.2. and
13.1.3. above and an average of 40% of the total marks allocated for the 03 subjects.
13.1.4 Administration (Subject No. 04)
A question paper based on the following :–
(i) Office and Field Organization and Methods
(ii) The Establishment Code (Chapters I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX,
XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII).
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.1.5 Economics (Subject No. 05)/Sociology (Subject No. 06) :
Candidates are required to sit only for one subject out of Economic and Sociology.
13.1.5.1 Economics (Subject No. 05)
A paper based on the following :–
(i) Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of V alue, production and Distribution ;
(ii) Money, Financial Activity and Theory of Money ;
(iii) The Economic Structure of Sri Lanka.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1184
13.1.5.2 Sociology (Subject No. 06)
A question paper based on the following (with special reference to Sri Lanka) :–
(i) Social Structure, Organization and Functions ;
(ii) Human Relationships and Groupings ;
(iii) Kinship, Marriage and the family ;
(iv) Rural and Urban Society ;
(v) Social stratification and differentiations ;
(vi) Social Control ;
(vii) Culture, Religion, Morals and Values.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.1.6 English (Subject No. 07)
The syllabus for this subject will be as follows :–
(i) Listening and Speaking Skills :
The candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following language functions :–
* General greetings and introductions
* Giving and getting information
* Advising, suggesting and expressing opinions
* Describing events and situations
* Telephone skills
* Interviewing skills
* Meeting
* Listening and note taking skills.
(ii) English Grammer :
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammer in the Spoken and the written language is
expected from the candidate :
* Tense and number
* Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/Compound Complex)
* Relative clauses
* Reported speech
* Adjectives and Adverbs
* Determiners
* Prepositions
(iii) Writing skills :
The knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study :
* Internal modes of Communication
* Formal correspondence skills
* Writing descriptions/explanations
* Summary writing skills
* Report writing skills
* Meeting minutes/agendas/invitations
* Comprehension
(iv) Reading skills :
Candidate’s ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal, written interpretation is expected.
* Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text.
* Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written)
* Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least of 40% of marks for this subject.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1185
13.2 The Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of SLAS (Appendix "D" of SLAS minute published in Gazette
No. 1419/03 dated 14.11.2005)
The Second Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the following subjects :–
Serial Subjects Duration Subject
No. No.
01 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) 03 hours 08
02 The process of Development Administration (with special reference 03 hours 09
to Sri Lanka)
03 Management and Organization 03 hours 10
04 Public Sector Financial Management 03 hours 11
13.2.1 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) : (Subject No. 08)
A paper based on the factors which influence the formulation of economic and social policy in Sri Lanka. The
application of the principles of Economics and Socialogy in recent economical, social and political history of
Sri Lanka.
Note.– A Candidate will be required to obtain at least of 40% of marks for this subject.
13.2.2 The Process of Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) : (Subject No. 09)
A paper based on the Institution of Development Administration, their working and their inter-relationships with
spcial reference to –
(i) The Machinery of Government in Sri Lanka ;
(ii) The constitutional background of the machinery of Government in Sri Lanka ;
(iii) Provincial Councils and Local Government ;
(iv) People's Organizations ;
(v) Public Corporations.
Note.– A Candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.2.3 Management and Organization : (Subject No. 10)
A paper based on the following :–
(i) The principles of management and organization ;
(ii) The application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector ;
(iii) Modern tools and techniques of management.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.2.4 Public Sector Financial Management (Subject No. 11)
A question paper based on the following :–
(i) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka
Constitutional provisions relating to Public Financial Management
Parliamentary Control over Public Finance
Meaning of Fund
Consolidated Fund and its operation
Meaning and methods of appropriation
Contingencies Fund
Other funds and their operation
Government revenue
Powers and functions of the Minister of Finance
Powers and functions of the Treasury
Warrants and Imprest Authority
Auditor General, his powers and functions
Committee on Public Expenditure
Committee on Public Enterprises

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1186
(ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and their
Powers and Function,
(iii) Internal Audit
(iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management
Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
Identification of Government Policies, goals targets and the work development programmes
Planning and appraisal of development projects and programmes ; and
Prioritization of them
Formulation and finalization of annual estimates of Revenue and Expenditure
(v) Variations of approved estimates of expenditure
Application of virement procedure
Management of Pubilc Sector Cadres and salaries
Total cost estimates and revisions
Supplementary estimates
(vi) Losses and waivers of Govt. properties
(vii) Miscellaneous accounting matters
(viii) Delegation of functions for financial control
(ix) Custody of public money and bank accounts procedure
(x) Govt. procurement procedure
Procurement of goods, services and works
Composition, appointment, power and functions of tender Boards and technical evaluation committees
Tender evaluation procedure
Management of donor funded projects
Note.– A candidate will be requried to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.3 First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka
Architects' Service :
Subjects of these examinations are as follows :–
Subject Duration Subject Number
Financial Systems 03 hours 12
Administration 03 hours 04
13.3.1 Financial Systems (Subject No. 12)
A question paper consisting of questions based on following facts :–
(i) Financial Regulations of Government of Sri Lanka - V olume I (Except Chapter X)
(ii) Estimates of the current year, Eg. Preparations of estimates, votes, financial systems and appropriation acts.
Note.– Candidates are required to secure at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.3.2 Administration (Subject No. 04)
Syllabus for this subject is indicated in para 13.1.4
13.4 Second Language Test (for all relevant services) :
The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Sinhala medium shall be Tamil
Language. The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Tamil medium shall be
Sinhala Language. In the meantime, an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in English Language is required to
pass in Sinhala and Tamil Language Tests.
Subjects of these examinations are as follows :
Subject Duration Subject No.
Second Language Test - Sinhala (Written) 02 hours 13
Second Language Test - Tamil (Written) 02 hours 14
Second Language Test - English (Written) 02 hours 15

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1187
Subject Subject No.
Second Language Test - Sinhala (Oral) 16
Second Language Test - Tamil (Oral) 17
Second Language Test - English (Oral) 18
Note.–  Only the candidates who pass the written examination of the Second Language Proficiency Test shall be called
for the oral test.
14. This examination will be held in Colombo during the period from 22nd  October, 2011 to 20th November, 2011. The timetable
of the examination is as follows :
Serial Name of the Subject Subject Date Time
No. Examination No.
01 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Constitutional Law and 01 22.10.2011 9.00 - 12.00
officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Administrative Law
Service Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 02 22.10.2011 12.30 - 3.30
Criminal Law and Evidence Law 03 22.10.2011 9.00 - 12.00
Administration 04 22.10.2011 12.30 - 3.30
Economics 05 05.11.2011 9.00 - 12.00
Sociology 06 05.11.2011 9.00 - 12.00
English 07 05.11.2011 12.30 - 3.30
02 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for Economic and Social Policy 08 12.11.2011 9.00 - 12.00
officers in Sri Lanka Administration The process of Development 09 12.11.2011 12.30 - 3.30
Service Administration
Management and Organization 10 13.11.2011 9.00 - 12.00
Public Sector Financial Management 11 13.11.2011 12.30 - 3.30
03 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Financial Systems 12 19.11.2011 9.00 - 12.00
officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Administration 04 23.10.2011 12.30 - 3.30
Service
04 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Financial Systems 12 19.11.2011 9.00 - 12.00
officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Administration 04 23.10.2011 12.30 - 3.30
Service
05 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Financial Systems 12 19.11.2011 9.00 - 12.00
officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Administration 04 23.10.2011 12.30 - 3.30
Service
06 Second Language Test (for all relevant Sinhala (Written) 13 20.11.2011 2.00 - 4.00
services) T amil (Written) 14 20.11.2011 9.00 - 11.30
English (Written) 15 20.11.2011 11.30 - 1.30
15. Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations will be made in the following
manner :
Examination Subj ect Qualifications required to be exempted
1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Constitutional Law and Administrative Law Should be a Barrister, Advocate in a
Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service Legal Systems of Sri Lanka Supreme Court, Graduate in Law from
Criminal Law and Evidence Law an University
Economics/Sociology Should be a holder of a Special Degree
in Economics or Sociology

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1188
16. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
P. B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
21st July, 2011.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION AND SECOND LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY TEST FOR OFFICERS IN
SRI LANKA  ADMINISTRA TIVE SERVICE, SRI LANKA ENGINEERING SERVICE, SRI LANKA SCIENTIFIC
SERVICE  AND  SRI  LANKA  ARCHITECTS' SERVICE - 2011(II)
Medium of Examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) (It will not be allowed to change the language medium subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––.
(In block capitals) Eg. : SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1          Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 National Identity Card No. :
4.0 4.1 The service to which the officer belongs :––––––––––.
4.2 Date of appointment to the service :––––––––––.
5.0 5.1 Post :––––––––––.
5.2 Department :––––––––––.
6.0  The Examinations and the subjects applied by the officer (If you apply for more than one Examination indicate the details separately
in following manner) :
6.1 Name of the Examination :––––––––––. Code :––––––––––.
(See para. 3.0 of Examination Notification)
Serial No. Subj ect Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1189
6.2 Name of the Examination :––––––––––. Code :––––––––––.
(See para. 3.0 of Examination Notification)
Serial No. Subje ct Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
6.3 Name of the Examination :––––––––––. Code :––––––––––.
(See para. 3.0 of Examination Notification)
Serial No. Subje ct Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
7.0 Whether you have appeared for this Examination as a whole or part thereof. If so, indicate following particulars :
Name of the Examination Subject Year Month
8.0 8.1 Are you appearing for the examination for the first time ? :––––––––––.
8.2 If not, indicate following particulars regarding the examination fees :––––––––––.
Amount paid :––––––––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Date of payment :––––––––––.
Branch of Bank of Ceylon :––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
S
TATEMENT OF THE CANDIDATE
I, declare that the above particulars are correct and I am eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. I also certify that the receipt issued on payment of examination fee is affixed herewith. Further I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations of the examination imposed by Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that, Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... whose particulars are mentioned above, is eligible to sit for the examination
in the language medium indicated above. I hereby certify the signature of the candidate.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and Post of Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
08–176

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1190
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.08.2011
1191
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month D ate of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2011
AUGUST 05.08.2011 Friday — 22.07.2011 Friday 12 noon
12.08.2011 Friday –– 29.07.2011 Friday 12 noon
19.08.2011 Friday –– 05.08.2011 Friday 12 noon
26.08.2011 Friday –– 12.08.2011 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 02.09.2011 Friday — 19.08.2011 Friday 12 noon
09.09.2011 Friday –– 26.08.2011 Friday 12 noon
16.09.2011 Friday –– 02.09.2011 Friday 12 noon
23.09.2011 Friday –– 09.09.2011 Friday 12 noon
30.09.2011 Friday –– 16.09.2011 Friday 12 noon
OCTOBER 07.10.2011 Friday — 23.09.2011 Friday 12 noon
14.10.2011 Friday –– 30.09.2011 Friday 12 noon
21.10.2011 Friday –– 07.10.2011 Friday 12 noon
28.10.2011 Friday –– 14.10.2011 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.