

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1383
Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1364 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"388 – 2024 cqks ui 07 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'06'07
No. 2,388  –  FRiday, JuNE 07, 2024
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE"
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th June, 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th June, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
Gangani  Liyanage,
Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1361 - B 082577 - 5,403 (06/2024)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1362
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1363
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1364
Post - v acant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ' S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages (Sinhala)
KuRuNEGaLa diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule here of;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of  Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil (relevant language for the post) 
with 02 credit passes in not more than t wo (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to 
perform duties in Secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else 
should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
(Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification.)
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Muslim 
Marriage, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices 
exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the Schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said "annex-01" inclusive of Village Name List/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 08
th  of July 2024 by registered post to the address given 
in the Schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
on this 14th day of May, 2024.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1365
Schedule
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kurunegala udubaddawa Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Ethungahakotuwa area of Katugampala 
Hathpattuwa division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kurunegala
06-03
____________________________________
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’ S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages/ Additional marriages (kandyan/ General)
 Sinhala medium
KuRuNEGaLa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages for the 
Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired 
sufficient interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years).
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a widow/ widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than two (02) sittings in GcE(o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any 
other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as Village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Births, deaths, 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could 
be obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional 
Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society 
Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of Village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1366
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 08 th  July 2024, by registered post to the address given 
in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
on this 14th day of May, 2024.
Schedule
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kurunegala udubaddawa
Post of Registrar of additional Marriages 
(Kandyan/ General) of Katugampala 
Hathpaththuwa division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kurunegala
Kurunegala Kurunegala
Post of Births and deaths Registrar of 
thiragandahaya West division and Post of 
Marriages (Kandyan/ General) Registrar of 
Weudawilli Hathpaththuwa division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kurunegala
06-04
___________________________________
ThE   SRI   LANkA   NA vy
Vacancies for Sailors in the Artificer (Direct Entry) Branches of Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force
1. Vacancies exist for Artificers in the Artificer (direct entry) branches of the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force.
2. Applications are called from male and female candidates possessing the following qualifications. Candidates should 
essentially fulfil the following general conditions to be recruited to the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force.
 a. Nationality : - Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 b. age  : - Not less than 18 years and not more than 33 years as at                      
    07th  July 2024.
 c. Height : - Must not be less than - 5 feet and 5 inches for male
 : -              - 5 feet and 3 inches for female 
 d. Weight : - Must not be less than - 47 kg (105 pounds) for male
           - 36 kg (80 pounds) for female
 e. chest : - Must not be less than 32 inches (male only)
 f. colour Vision : - Std ii 
 g. Visual acuity : - Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without spectacles and lenses)
 h. civil Status : - Both married/ unmarried applicants can apply . 
3. v acancies (branches) 
 a. Engine Room Artificer
 b. Automobile Artificer

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1367
 c. Electrical Artificer  (Power Generation Distribution and Control and Automation)
 d. Radio Electronic Artificer (Electronic and Telecommunication / Data Communication Field)
  
4. Educational Qualifications
a. Should have passed the G.C.E (O/L) Examination in not more than two attempts with 06 subjects including 
credit passes for Mathematics, Science and Mother tongue and a Simple pass for English. 
b. Should have passed the G.c.E (a/L) Examination in one sitting.
(1)  Mathematics Stream  –  Simple passes for combined Maths               
   and Physics          
 
(2) t echnology Stream    – Simple passes for Engineering      
technology and Science             
    for technology     
            
 (3) Mathematics Stream or Biology Stream    
       or technology Stream      - two simple Passes         
                 
5. Professional Qualification 
 a. Engine Room Artificer (Class III)
 (1) Should have successfully completed a Marine/ Mechanical Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ 
Level V/ Vi
Preferable -
(a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt) in Marine.
        or
(b) Successful completion of Higher National diploma in Engineering (Mechanical)
        or
(c) Successful completion of National diploma in Engineering Sciences NdES (Marine)
        or
(d) Successful completion of National diploma in technology and Education (Mechanical)
        or
(e) Successful completion of Marine/ Mechanical diploma course with NVQ Level V/Vi 
standards from an approved institute by tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(TVEC) or an equivalent institute which can grant the same qualification.       
     
(2) Three (03) years of experience or more in relevant field in a government or a private institute. 
 b. Engine Room Artificer (Class IV)
(1) Should have successfully completed a Marine/ Mechanical Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ 
Level V/ Vi.
 
Preferable -
 
(a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt) in Marine.
   or
(b) Successful completion of Higher National diploma in Engineering (Mechanical)
   or
Engine Room Artificer,
Auto Mobile Artificer
Electrical Artificer        
Radio Electronic Artificer
 Engine Room Artificer,
Auto Mobile Artificer

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1368
(c) Successful completion of National diploma in Engineering Sciences NdES (Marine)
   or
(d) Successful completion of National diploma in technology and Education (Mechanical)
   or
(e) Successful completion of Marine/ Mechanical diploma course with NVQ Level V/Vi 
standards from an approved institute by tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(TVEC) or an equivalent institute which can grant the same qualification.        
      
(2) Minimum One (01) year of experience in relevant field in a government or a private institute. 
c. Automobile Artificer (Class III)
(1) Should have successfully completed an automobile Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ Level 
V/ Vi
Preferable -
(a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt) (Mechanical)
      or
(b) Successful completion of tti diploma in automotive Engineering 
      or
(c) Successful completion of National diploma in automobile technology from university 
college of Kuliyapitiya
      or
(d) Successful completion of diploma in automobile Engineering from ceylon Germen 
tech
      or
(e) Successful completion of diploma in automobile Engineering from automobile 
Engineering training institute orugodawatta
      or
(f) Successful completion of equivalent automobile diploma course with NVQ Level V/ Vi 
standards from an approved institute by tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(TVEC) or an equivalent institute which can grant same qualification.
    
(2) Three (03) years of experience or more in relevant field in a government or a private institute.
d. Automobile Artificer (Class IV)
(1) Should have successfully completed automobile Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ Level V/ 
Vi
Preferable -
(a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt) in Mechanical
      or
(b) Successful completion of tti diploma in automotive Engineering 
      or
(c) Successful completion of National diploma in automobile technology (university 
college of Kuliyapitiya)
      or
(d) Successful completion of diploma in automobile Engineering (ceylon Germen 
tech)
      or

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1369
(e) Successful completion of automobile Engineering training institute orugodawatta
     or
(f) Successful completion of Equivalent automobile diploma course with NVQ Level 
V/ Vi standards from an approved institute by tertiary & V ocational Education 
Commission (TVEC) or an equivalent institute which can grant same qualification.
    
(2) Minimum One (01) year of experience in relevant field in a government or a private institute.
 
e. Electrical Artificer (Class IV)
(1) Should have successfully completed Electrical Engineering/ Electrical and Electronic Engineering/ 
industrial automation/ Mechatronic Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ Level V .
Preferable -
       
(a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt)
      or
(b) Successful completion of Higher National diploma in Engineering (HNdE)
      or
(c) Successful completion of National diploma in Engineering Sciences NdES
      or
(d) Successful completion of National diploma in technology and Education
      
(2) One (01) year of experience or more in relevant field in a government or a private institute.
f. Radio Electronic Artificer (Class IV)
(1) Should have successfully completed Electronic Engineering/ telecommunication Engineering/ 
Networking diploma equivalent to NVQ Level V .
Preferable -
(a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt)
     or
(b) Successful completion of Higher National diploma in engineering (HNdE)
     or
(c) Successful completion of National diploma in Engineering Sciences NdES.
     or
(d) Successful completion of National diploma in technology and Education.
    
 (2) One (01) year of experience or more in relevant field in a government or a private institute.
6. Applications of candidates who have not fulfilled the requirements of Para 2 and 4 will be rejected. On arrival for the 
first interview the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight are below the 
standards specified in the Gazette Notification will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill of 
value to the service may at the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy be considered even though he may 
not have the requisite height.
7.  Service Conditions
a. Candidates will be initially enlisted as artificer class III, class IV rates and they are required to undergo basic 
training courses.
b. During and after the period of training, the enlisted sailors shall be subject to the Naval Law.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1370
c. all the enlisted sailors will be provided with uniforms and other equipment.
d. during the period of training, the enlisted sailors will be provided with accommodation and food by the Sri 
Lanka Navy.
e. during the training period, if an enlisted sailor desires to get his candidature dismissed, the sailor is required to 
pay back to the government of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred so far by the government of Sri Lanka for 
his training.
f. during the training period, due to a misconduct of the sailor or due to any other reason which the sailor is 
responsible for, if the responsible authorities determine that he/ she is not eligible for the service of the Navy, 
the sailor, on that occasion itself, should enter into a Bond with the Navy commander as the representative of 
the Socialist democratic Republic of Sri Lanka agreeing that he/ she will pay back all costs incurred for him/ 
her to the Sri Lanka Navy.
g.  Either for duties or training, all Sailors are bound to be attached to any part of Sri Lanka or a foreign country.
8. Official Languages Requirement: The selected candidates are required to obey all commands and legislation that have 
already been and likely to be enacted for implementation of the Official Languages Policy that comes under the Official 
Languages act, No.33 of 1956.
9. Salaries and Allowances :
  the payments from the date 01.01.2020 will be made according to the Management Services circular  
No. 03/ 2016. accordingly, 
 a. Basic salary  - Rs. 33,490.00
 b. cost of living allowance - Rs. 17,800.00
 c. uniform cleaning allowance - Rs. 350.00
 d. Hard line allowance (for operational areas) - Entitled after basic training
 e. Hard line allowance 
  (for Non-operational areas)  -  Entitled after basic training
 f. other allowances - Special allowance Rs. 1,000.00 
   - Special additional allowance Rs. 2,400.00
 g. interim allowance -  Rs. 5,000.00
  Minimum net pay (Victualing in) - Rs. 60,040.00
           (Victualing out) -   Rs. 91,465.00
 h.  three sets of railway warrants per year will be granted (as applicable to the sailor, spouse, children and 
dependents)
 i. an additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for the sailors living in the camp 
to travel from the billet to their home will be granted once a month.
 j. Free medical facilities will be provided (as applicable to the sailor, spouse, children and dependents)
 k.  Married sailors who are not residing in government quarters, will be entitled to a house rent allowance 
from Rs 2,400.00 to Rs 6,600.00 
 l. Quarters will be provided to the married sailors based on the availability of vacancies in the quarters 
reserved for married sailors. Rent will be charged according to the public servants.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1371
10. Instructions to Applicants:-
 a.  Duly filled application by the candidate himself with clear handwriting should be submitted as per the 
specimen application to SENIOR STAff  OffICER (RECRuITING), NA vy  hEADQuARTERS, P.O. 
bOX 593, COLOmbO by registered post before 12.00 noon of 07 th  July 2024. applications that are not sent 
by registered post will be rejected. “Recruitment of Direct Entry Artificer Sailors” should be indicated on 
the top left corner of the envelope. Late applications and unqualified applications will not be entertained. For 
further information, please contact 011-7195162, 011-7195155 or visit www.navy.lk.
 b.  candidates who are in Government Service/ corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through their Heads of department/ corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments and should bear 
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
 c.  candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
(1)  Certificate of registration of birth;
(2) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications required for the branch applied for;
(3)  School leaving certificate;
(4)  Grama Niladari certificate (Taken within six month to closing date);
(5) Certificates of professional/ technical training and/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution;
(6) Three recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last school 
attended and the other from a responsible person who has known the applicant for more than two 
years, or from the present employer (if employed);
(7) Certificates in sports and other activities. 
d.  applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
e.  No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
f.  The Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
11.  Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable for disqualification if 
the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after selection. 
12. Selection Interviews etc.:- 
a.  Candidates who fulfil the above conditions are required to undergo the preliminary medical test prescribed 
by the Sri Lanka Navy. only the candidates who pass the medical test should undergo the following Physical 
Endurance test. the candidates who pass the said Physical Endurance test shall have to appear for an interview 
before a Selection Board.  
b. Requirements to be fulfilled at the Physical Endurance Test
Exercise Time (minutes/Seconds) male female
1600 m run
Push up
Sit up
-
01 minutes
01 minutes
09 minuts
12 or more
10 or more 
11 minuts
08 or more
07 or more

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1372
c.  candidates who were selected for the interviews will be informed of the date, time and place of such interviews 
through Whatsapp/ e-mail and no information will be sent in writing by post. t ravelling or other expenses will 
not be paid in this respect.
d.  on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview, he/ she is to produce his/ her National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
e.  Candidates who are likely to be selected for their final interviews are required to present themselves before Sri 
Lanka Navy Medical Board.
f. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his/ her testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such 
candidate.
g.  Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified. 
 
Note - this gazette  notification will be published in the three languages Sinhala, Tamil and English. In case of any        
 inconsistency among the Sinhala, t amil and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
        uVMP PERERa, RSP**, uSP, ndu, psc
    Vice admiral
    commander of the Navy
    Sri Lanka Navy Headquarters,
    P.o. Box 593,
    colombo 01.
APPLICATION  TO RECRuIT  (DIRECT ENTRy)  ARTIfICERS  TO ThE  SRI LANkA  REGuLAR 
NAvAL  fORCE
01. Nationality: 
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if registration quote number and date of certificate)
02. Stream applied (in priority order) :
03. Full Name (as per the National identity card):
04. National identity card Number: 
05. Permanent address: 
06. Postal address:
07. date of Birth: 
08. age years: ..........., Months:.......... ,days :......... ( as at 07
th  July 2024)
09. Height: ..........., (Feet & inches) chest. :……….., (inches  –male only) Weight:……., (Kg)  
10. Nearest Police Station to the permanent address:
11. district: 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1373
12. Electorate:
13. GS division:
14. t elephone Number: 
15. Whatsapp Number: 
16. civil Status:
17. Gender:
18. Schools attended (in order):
19. Particulars of School/ Schools or university attended:
Name of school/
University
Type of
examination passed
Year of
examination
Subject passed      (Including 
grading)
ordinary   Level :
advanced   Level :
other
20. Particulars of employment since leaving School/university: - (if applicable)
Name and address 
of employer
Nature of
employment
Period of service
From To
21. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Place of
birth
Occupation Present
Address
Father
Mother
22. Any special qualification for the post:
23. details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated in with dates/ years etc. 
and standards / levels achieved):
24. other achievements of note at School / university or at outside organizations (Give details with dates/ years etc.):
25. any previous service in the armed Force or V olunteer Force, cadet corps or Boy Scout organization: 
26. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the 
outcome of such applications:
27. Have you ever been convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details:
28. if employed earlier in a Government department or in the Public Sector / Board / corporation (including the central 
Bank, National Banks, universities, Joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination 
of such employment: 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1374
29. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
30. declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
i declare on my honor that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for the Artificer branches in the Sri Lanka Navy which are published in the Gazette of the 
Government of Sri Lanka.     
date:––––––––––  –––––––––––––––––––, 
  Signature of applicant.
06-15
________________________________
PubLIC  SERvICE COmmISSION
Recruitment on open basis to the Post of Legal Officer Grade III of the  Executive Service Category of 
the ministry of Tourism and Lands -2024
aPPLicatioNS  are called  from the citizens of Sri Lanka who have been completed the qualifications mentioned in this  
notice,  for  filling  the existing one vacancy  in the post of Legal Officer Grade III of Executive Service Category of the land 
division of the Ministry of tourism and Lands. 
1. method of Recruitment :
the candidate who secure highest marks on the results of eligibility assessment interview conducted by an interview board 
appointed by the Public Service Commission, out of the candidates who have possessed the qualifications prescribed in 
the notice will be recruited for the vacancy. the eligibility evaluation interview will be conducted in accordance with the 
marking scheme mentioned under 6 below approved by the Public Service commission. 
The effective date of the appointment will be determined by the Public Service Commission.
2. Required Qualifications
 (i) Educational/Professional  Qualifications
 Should have given oaths as an attorney-at-Law of the Supreme court of Sri Lanka
 (ii) Experience
 Should have an active professional experience of not less than three (03) years as an attorney-at-Law after given 
oaths as an attorney-at-Law in the Supreme court. (the documents to be furnished as proof of active professional 
experience should clearly indicate the period of experience, date and the official seal of the attester)
or
Should have obtained an experience of not less than *three years (03) in a legal post in a government institution 
after given oaths as an attorney-at-Law of the Supreme court.
(Should be confirmed by a letter issued by the Secretary/Head of the Department/ Institution)

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1375
Note: Copies of the documents confirming the basic qualifications certified by the applicant himself/ herself should 
be attached to the application. Application without the attached certificates with clear indication of commencement 
and end date of service period could be rejected without notice.    
*a  Legal post is a post having a Law degree or given oath as an attorney-at-Law in the Supreme court being a basic 
qualification of recruitment.
 (iii) Physical Fitness
  Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island,   and to perform the duties 
in the post.
 
 (iv) Other Qualifications
	should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
	Should be of an excellent moral character
	Should have fulfilled all the necessary qualifications required in all aspects for the recruitment to the post by 
as at the closing date of the applications.
3. Conditions of employment in the service and service conditions
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. You shall be subjected to a future policy decision taken by the Government 
on the pension scheme entitled to you. Further, you shall make contributions to the Widows’ and orphans’ / 
Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension Scheme. you shall make your contributions as required by the Government from 
time to time.
(ii) This appointment is subjected to a probationary period of 03 years. First efficiency bar examination should be 
passed within 03 years from the date of recruitment to the post as per mentioned in the procedure of recruitment.
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No.18/2020 dated 16 10. 2020, proficiency in other official languages 
should be acquired.
(iv) This appointment will be subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, the Establishments 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the government, provisions of 
the recruitment procedure for the recruitment of the executive service category (Legal officer) of the Ministry of 
Lands, other departmental orders.
(v) No permission will be granted to change the medium of language applied and the language medium eligible for 
the appointment is the language medium you mentioned in the application.
4.  Age Limit:  
Should be not less than 21 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of applications. 
5.  Salary Scale:
 in terms of Schedule i of the Public administration circular No 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 the monthly salary scale 
applicable to this post is, Rs. 47,615-10 x 1,335-8x 1,630 -17 x 2170 - 110,895/- (SL – 1 – 2016)

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1376
6. The following marking scheme will be adopted for the Eligibility Assessment Interview.
Serial 
No. Subject Marks Maximum 
Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications
(Marks will be awarded only for the highest qualification)
a) Post Graduate degree in Law from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission. 
b) Post Graduate diploma in Law from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission or Post Graduate diploma in Law 
obtained from the institute of advanced Legal Studies of Sri Lanka Law 
college.
c) the following obtained from a university  recognized by the university 
Grants commission
	Bachelor of Laws degree with First class pass
	Bachelor of Laws  degree with a Second class upper Pass 
	Bachelor of Laws degree with a class
	Bachelor of Laws degree with an ordinary Pass 
d) First class pass in the final year of Sri Lanka  Law College
Second class pass in the final year of Sri Lanka Law College.
Note: The above 05 marks will be awarded only if the final examination of the Sri 
Lanka Law college is passed with Honours.
25
20
15
10
07
05
10
05
25
02 Additional Experience
Preparation of documents relevant to cases and making statements in open courts.
Marks for case 
filing (Per case)
Marks for the appearing in 
courts and giving statement 
(per case) 
Supreme court 2 5
court  of appeal 2 4
High court 2 3
district courts 4 5
tribunals 2 3
Note: The copies of relevant judgements or certified copy of the case report which 
the last hearing date of the case, should be submitted to the interview Board to 
verify the above qualifications. 
35

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1377
Serial 
No. Subject Marks Maximum 
Marks
03 knowledge of Information Technology/ Information Technology Law
(a) a degree from a university recognized by the uGc with it or computer 
Science as a main subject
(b) a diploma in information and communication technology Law obtained 
from a university recognized by the university Grants commission or the 
Sri Lanka Law college or any other government recognized professional 
institute.
(c) a diploma in computer Science or information and communication 
technology obtained from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a diploma in computer Science or information 
technology at NVQ Level 5 or above from any other institution.
(d) Certificates obtained by attending courses / training programmes in the 
field of Information and Communication Technology Law at a University 
recognized by the university Grants commission or at the Sri Lanka Law 
college or any other government recognized professional  institute.
(02 marks each for a maximum of two certificates will be given)
Note: Marks will be given only for the highest qualification.
10
08
05
04
10
04
Language Skill
(a) a degree obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants 
Commission with English as a main subject.
(b) English language proficiency shown in recognized Moot Court 
competitions on international or National Level.
individual
i. First place/best skill         -12
ii. Second place                    -10
iii. third place/other skills    -08
 Group
i.  First place/best skill       -10
ii. Second place                   -18
iii. third place/other skills   - 06
15
12
15

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1378
Serial 
No. Subject Marks Maximum 
Marks
(c)  diploma in English from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or SLQF-3 or Higher diploma in English from other 
institute or a diploma in English obtained from a Government training 
Institute /an Institute affiliated to a Government Training Institute 
following a minimum 1500 study hour course.
(d) G.c.E. (advanced level) Examination (Local or London) with a 
distinction pass in English or iELtS overall score 6.5 or above, toEFL-
iBt score 79 or above, toEFL-cBt score 213 or above or toEFL -PBy 
score 550 or above.
(e) Advanced certificate in English from a University recognized by the 
University Grants Commission or a Certificate in English at SLQF 2 from 
other institute.
Note: Marks will be awarded only for the highest qualification.
10
08
05
05 Skill performed at the interview
Applicant’s skills that are useful in fulfilling the duties of the post:
	Strength questions 
	Situational questions and 
	competency questions 
Marks will be awarded according to the answers given for the questions aimed at 
evaluation
02
03
10
15
 Total 100
  
7.  Identity of the Candidate
only the candidates who have submitted duly completed applications in all aspects will be called for the Eligibility 
assessment interview.
Originals and copies of all certificates duly certified by the applicant himself should be furnished at the interview.
 the following documents will be accepted at the interview to prove your identity
 i. National identity card issued by the commissioner General of Registration of Persons. 
 ii. a  valid Passport  
  
8. method of Application
(i) the perfected applications should be sent by registered post to the address “Secretary, “Mihikatha Medura”, 
Land Secretariat, No.1200/6, Rajamalwatta Avenue,Battaramulla” to be received on or before 06.07.2024 
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1379
(ii) The specimen form of the application to be submitted is appended at the end of this notification. The application 
should be prepared in A-4 size paper as per the specimen, containing items 01 to 03 on the first page and from 
04 to 07 the 2nd page, from 08 to 11 the 3rd page and filled in his/her own handwriting. 
(iii) “Recruitment to the post of Legal Officer Grade III ” should be written on the top left corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application.
(iv) Candidate’s signature on the Application should be certified by a principal of a Government School/ a Justice 
of Peace/ a Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney - at Law/ Notary Public/ Commissioned Officer Armed Forces, 
or an officer holding a permanent post in the Government or Provincial Public Service earning a consolidated 
monthly salary of Rs.47,615/- or above.
(v) applicants currently employed in the Public Service / Provincial Public Service should submit their applications 
through the Head of department in which they are serving. 
(vi) Applications which are not in conformity with the accompanying specimen application form will be rejected 
without any notification. No complaints will be accepted regarding loss or delay of applications.
9. Submission of false Information : 
if any of the information mentioned in the application form sent by you is found to be false or erroneous before being 
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if such false or misleading information is discovered after recruitment, 
action will be taken for dismissal, subject to the relevant procedures.
10.  The Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacancy.
11. in the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy among the Sinhala, tamil and English language texts of this Gazette 
Notification the Sinhala language text shall prevail.
12. If any issue arises an any matter not mentioned in this notification or in this recruitment process, the decision taken by 
the Public Service Commission in that regard shall’ be final.
By order of the Public Service commission,
 H.M.B.P. Herath, 
 the Secretary,
 Ministry of tourism and Lands
 on 26.04.2024 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1380
Specimen Application
RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST Of LEGAL OffICER GRADE III Of ThE  EXECuTIvE 
SERvICE CATEGORy Of ThE mINISTRy Of LANDS
(For office use only) 
(Write the number relevant to the medium applied in the cage) 
Sinhala-2             Tamil-3         English -4 
Note: The medium of application cannot be changed  
1. 0   1.1 Name in Full (Mr/Mrs/Ms) :  .......................................................................................................................   
     (In Sinhala/Tamil)   ...................................................................................................................   
 1.2 Name in Full  : ..................................................................................................................  
 (In English Block Letters)  :  .................................................................................................................  
 1.3 Name with initials (Mr/Mrs/Ms)  :  .......................................................................................................................   
 (In Sinhala/Tamil)  Eg. එම්.ජී.බී.එස්.ෙක්. ගුණවර්ධන 
 1.4 Name with initials  :  .....................................................................................................................   
 (In English Block Letters) 
2:0   2.1 Permanent Address  : ..................................................................................................................   
     (In Sinhala/Tamil)       ................................................................................................................... 
 2.2  Permanent Address  : ..................................................................................................................... 
 (In English Block Letters )   ........................................................................................................................   
3.0  3.1 Gender   :     Male     - 0     Female  1  (write the relevant No. in the cage)  
 3.2 Civil Status :     Married - 1
 Unmarried   -2  (write the relevant No. in the cage) 
 3.3     Date of Birth           Year  Month  Date 
 3.4    Age as at 06.07.2024 : Years  Months  Days 
 3.5   National Identity Card Number: 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1381
4.0     4.1 Telephone No .   Fixed: 
                                         Mobile: 
5.0     Educational qualifications :
 5.1  Degree Institute Date 
------------------------------- --------------------------- ------------------ 
------------------------------- --------------------------- ------------------ 
6. 0   Date of swearing in as an Attorney-at-Law in the Supreme Court :-------------------------------------------------------
 6.1     Date completed the 03 years  experience after swearing in the Supreme Court  :--------------------------------  
 6.2     Date completed the experience of 03 years in a legal post in a government institution :-------------------------  
* The certificates /documents confirming the basic qualifications certified to be true by the applicant himself should 
be submitted along with the application.
7.0   Details of qualifications obtained under No.06 of the notice calling for applications:- 
7. 1   Additional Educational Qualifications:  ................................................................................................................   
 7.2    Additional Professional Qualifications:  ................................................................................................................   
 ................................................................................................................  
 7.3   Knowledge in Information Technology: ………………………………………………………………………... 
 ................................................................................................................  
 7.4  Language Skill:  ................................................................................................................   
*The documents in proof of additional qualifications should not be attached to the    application and it is a responsible
of the applicant to be prepared to furnish them at the interview.
8.0   Have you ever been convicted by a court of Law? 
  (If Yes, Please explain) 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Specimen Application
RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST Of LEGAL OffICER GRADE III Of ThE  EXECuTIvE 
SERvICE CATEGORy Of ThE mINISTRy Of LANDS
(For office use only) 
(Write the number relevant to the medium applied in the cage) 
Sinhala-2             Tamil-3         English -4 
Note: The medium of application cannot be changed  
1. 0   1.1 Name in Full (Mr/Mrs/Ms) :  .......................................................................................................................   
     (In Sinhala/Tamil)   ...................................................................................................................   
 1.2 Name in Full  : ..................................................................................................................  
 (In English Block Letters)  :  .................................................................................................................  
 1.3 Name with initials (Mr/Mrs/Ms)  :  .......................................................................................................................   
 (In Sinhala/Tamil)  Eg. එම්.ජී.බී.එස්.ෙක්. ගුණවර්ධන 
 1.4 Name with initials  :  .....................................................................................................................   
 (In English Block Letters) 
2:0   2.1 Permanent Address  : ..................................................................................................................   
     (In Sinhala/Tamil)       ................................................................................................................... 
 2.2  Permanent Address  : ..................................................................................................................... 
 (In English Block Letters )   ........................................................................................................................   
3.0  3.1 Gender   :     Male     - 0     Female  1  (write the relevant No. in the cage)  
 3.2 Civil Status :     Married - 1
 Unmarried   -2  (write the relevant No. in the cage) 
 3.3     Date of Birth           Year  Month  Date 
 3.4    Age as at 06.07.2024 : Years  Months  Days 
 3.5   National Identity Card Number: 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1382
9.0 Certificate of the applicant 
I declare that all the information provided by me in this application is true and correct, that all the parts have been 
duly completed and that I am aware that I will be subject to disqualification if this declaration is found to be untrue 
prior to my selection and dismissal if such a situation is discovered after the selection and I am subject to all 
rules and regulations. 
 Date:…………..………… 
------------------------------------
- Signature of the Candidate.
10.0 Attestation of the Signature of the Candidate: 
I certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss …………………………………………..who has submitted this application is personally 
known to me and he/she placed his/her placed the signature on ………………..…. day of ………….……… in my 
presence.
 ………………………………………….. 
 Signature of the Officer certifying the signature 
 Full Name  : 
 Designation:  
 Date :  
 (Confirm with the official stamp) 
11. Recommendation of the Head of the Department (Only for Public Service applicants)
I hereby certify that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss.……………………………... is working in this institute and the 
particulars furnished by him/her are true and correct and his/her work, and behavior, attendance are satisfactory that 
no allegations have been leveled against him/her that, if he/she is selected for this post, he/she can be released 
from the service of this Institution. 
------------------------------------------------------- 
Signature of the Head of the Department  
Name:   
Designation: 
Address: 
 Date: 
(Place the official stamp) 
06-16
4.0     4.1 Telephone No .   Fixed: 
                                         Mobile: 
5.0     Educational qualifications :
 5.1  Degree Institute Date 
------------------------------- --------------------------- ------------------ 
------------------------------- --------------------------- ------------------ 
6. 0   Date of swearing in as an Attorney-at-Law in the Supreme Court :-------------------------------------------------------
 6.1     Date completed the 03 years  experience after swearing in the Supreme Court  :--------------------------------  
 6.2     Date completed the experience of 03 years in a legal post in a government institution :-------------------------  
* The certificates /documents confirming the basic qualifications certified to be true by the applicant himself should 
be submitted along with the application.
7.0   Details of qualifications obtained under No.06 of the notice calling for applications:- 
7. 1   Additional Educational Qualifications:  ................................................................................................................   
 7.2    Additional Professional Qualifications:  ................................................................................................................   
 ................................................................................................................  
 7.3   Knowledge in Information Technology: ………………………………………………………………………... 
 ................................................................................................................  
 7.4  Language Skill:  ................................................................................................................   
*The documents in proof of additional qualifications should not be attached to the    application and it is a responsible
of the applicant to be prepared to furnish them at the interview.
8.0   Have you ever been convicted by a court of Law? 
  (If Yes, Please explain) 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
4.0     4.1 Telephone No .   Fixed: 
                                         Mobile: 
5.0     Educational qualifications :
 5.1  Degree Institute Date 
------------------------------- --------------------------- ------------------ 
------------------------------- --------------------------- ------------------ 
6. 0   Date of swearing in as an Attorney-at-Law in the Supreme Court :-------------------------------------------------------
 6.1     Date completed the 03 years  experience after swearing in the Supreme Court  :--------------------------------  
 6.2     Date completed the experience of 03 years in a legal post in a government institution :-------------------------  
* The certificates /documents confirming the basic qualifications certified to be true by the applicant himself should 
be submitted along with the application.
7.0   Details of qualifications obtained under No.06 of the notice calling for applications:- 
7. 1   Additional Educational Qualifications:  ................................................................................................................   
 7.2    Additional Professional Qualifications:  ................................................................................................................   
 ................................................................................................................  
 7.3   Knowledge in Information Technology: ………………………………………………………………………... 
 ................................................................................................................  
 7.4  Language Skill:  ................................................................................................................   
*The documents in proof of additional qualifications should not be attached to the    application and it is a responsible
of the applicant to be prepared to furnish them at the interview.
8.0   Have you ever been convicted by a court of Law? 
  (If Yes, Please explain) 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
9.0 Certificate of the applicant 
I declare that all the information provided by me in this application is true and correct, that all the parts have been 
duly completed and that I am aware that I will be subject to disqualification if this declaration is found to be untrue 
prior to my selection and dismissal if such a situation is discovered after the selection and I am subject to all 
rules and regulations. 
 Date:…………..………… 
------------------------------------
- Signature of the Candidate.
10.0 Attestation of the Signature of the Candidate: 
I certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss …………………………………………..who has submitted this application is personally 
known to me and he/she placed his/her placed the signature on ………………..…. day of ………….……… in my 
presence.
 ………………………………………….. 
 Signature of the Officer certifying the signature 
 Full Name  : 
 Designation:  
 Date :  
 (Confirm with the official stamp) 
11. Recommendation of the Head of the Department (Only for Public Service applicants)
I hereby certify that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss.……………………………... is working in this institute and the 
particulars furnished by him/her are true and correct and his/her work, and behavior, attendance are satisfactory that 
no allegations have been leveled against him/her that, if he/she is selected for this post, he/she can be released 
from the service of this Institution. 
------------------------------------------------------- 
Signature of the Head of the Department  
Name:   
Designation: 
Address: 
 Date: 
(Place the official stamp) 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1383
PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION
ministry of Tourism and Lands
LiMitEd coMPEtitiVE  ExaMiNatioN  FoR  REcRuitMENt to tHE  PoSt oF  dEP aR tMENtaL  
aSSiStaNt diREctoR  ( aGRoNoMy) GRadE  iii  oF  ExEcutiVE  SERVicE  catEGoR y oF  tHE  LaNd 
uSE  PoLicy PLaNNiNG  dEP aR tMENt -2024
aPPLicatioNS  are called, on the direction of the Public Service Commission, from officers who possess following 
qualifications for the limited competitive examination to fill 01 existing vacancies in the post of Director (Agronomy) Grade 
iii of Executive Service category  of this department. this examination will be held in September at Colombo district 
by the commissioner General of Examinations, Sri Lanka. applications prepared according to the specimen application 
form given at the end of this notice should be forwarded on or before the date given below to the commissioner General 
of Examinations, institutional Examinations organization Branch, department of Examinations, P.o. Box 1503, colombo 
under registered cover. the top left hand corner of the envelope should be written clearly “Limited competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to the Post of director (agronomy)  of the Land use Policy Planning department -2024”
(a) the closing date of applications is 28.06.2024.
Note: No complaints shall be considered to the effect that an application or related documents connected therewith 
were lost or delayed in the post. any loss that may cause due to the delay in submitting the application until the 
closing date will have to be borne by the applicants, themselves.
1. method of Recruitment: 
The candidates who have been completed the qualifications mentioned in the notice, will be  subject to a written 
test and subsequently  called  the applicants  who have been scored  highest  marks in the written test . a  number 
equal to five times existing vacancies will be called for the general interview from among the candidates who 
obtained highest marks at the written test  by a list of viva voce prepared in alphabetical order .  after that  they will 
be subjected  to a structured  interview and the suitable applicants recruited according to the order of merit of total 
marks obtained for the written examination and the viva voce examination, by the Public Service commission.
The  number recruited and  the effective date of the appointment will be determined  as per the order on the  Public 
Service commission .
2. Salary Scale:
 this post is entitled to the salary scale as per (SL-01-2016) , Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170-110,895/- 
(monthly), according to the appendix i of Public administration circular 03/2016 of 25.02.2016.  
3.  Conditions of Service :
             i.  this post is permanent and pensionable. contribution should be made to the widows’ and orphans’ Pension 
Scheme.
             II. This post is subject to an acting period of one year.
 iii. in accordance with the provisions of Public administrative circulars 18 /2020 and circulars thereof, 
language proficiency should be obtained as required within 03 years of the recruitment.
            IV . This appointment  will be subject to the provisions of  the Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, Establishments code  of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,  Government Financial 
Regulations, departmental orders.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1384
4. Educational Qualifications :
     a  degree in agriculture obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants commission of Sri Lanka 
(uGc).
5. Experience :
 I. Be a Development officer attached to the aforesaid department who has been assigned duties equivalent to 
the post of Land Use Planning Officer or the post of  Land Use Planning Officer of the Land Use Policy 
Planning department.
                 ii. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory service period of 05 years in the Land use Policy Planning 
department.
                  III. Be  an officer permanent in the post.
 6. Physical Suitability :
 Every candidate should be physically and mentally sound enough
   i. t o serve in any part of the island. 
   ii.  to  perform duties of the post.
   7.  Age Limit:  age limit is not applicable as those who hold a permanent post already in the public service
   8. Other Qualifications :
 i.  applicants should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. applicants have an excellent moral character.
 III. Should have fulfilled all the necessary qualifications required to recruit to the post  by the  closing date of 
the applications.
9.  Written Examination:
           9.1  this examination will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations. the limited 
competitive examination for the post is consisted with the following  question papers:
   
Subject No. Subject Time Maximum marks Pass marks
01 Subject Related  Question 
Paper 
03 hours 100 40%
02 intelligent test 03 hours 100 40%
 9.2 Syllabus :
    (a)   Subject Related Question Paper :
 Knowledge on preparation of land use planning by utilizing theories based on land valuation for 
agriculture, physical features and basic knowledge on preparation of map relevant to that, making 
land use planning by adjusting requirements of crop cultivation and their requirements with land 
features and quality of the land, using soil protection activities to increase the productivity  of 
the land and knowledge on utilizing agricultural research data for that purpose and agronomical 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1385
factors specially considered in land use activities in Sri Lanka at present and instances of successful 
utilization of those factors and describe issues in relation to that in accordance with practical 
experiences.
(b) intelligent test :
 Shall consist of 50 multiple-choice questions and/ or short answer type questions  to test the 
candidate’s analytical, interpretation , logical skills which are  presented relevant to the numerical, 
linguistic and morphological structures and  relationships.
  10.     Interview :
 10.1 Structured interview 
According to the priority of obtaining marks from the written examination, a number equal to five times 
existing vacancies will be called for the general interview from among the candidates and marks will 
be awarded by the board of interview appointed by the Public Service commission.   at least 40% of 
the marks should be obtained for each subject  in written examination for calling for the interview.  The 
method of awarding marks in the interview is as follows:
Fields which are examined and awarding marks Maximum marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications 20
02 Language Proficiency 15
03 V ocational Qualifications 20
04 Qualifications obtained in information technology/
computer science 
20
05 additional Experience 20
06 Skills performed at the interview 05
Grand Total 100
11. Examination Conditions : 
 i.  the examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, tamil and English mediums. a candidate can appear 
for the examination in only one language of her/his choice. all question papers have to be answered in 
the same medium. candidates will not be permitted to change the medium of examination in her/his 
application later. all candidate should be appeared for all 02 (two) question papers.
 II.  Examination Fees is Rs. 1200/- further, the examination fee should be paid cash to any post office/ sub 
post office in the island to be credited to the state revenue head under the Commissioner General of 
Examinations 20-03-02-13 and the receipt obtained in the name of the applicant should be affixed at one 
place on the edge of the application so that it does not slip.. it may also be helpful to retain a photocopy of 
the receipt.
    iii. the paid examination fee shall not be refunded for any reason 
    IV . The date of the examination will be notified later 
  Note:  No applicant will be allowed to enter the examination hall without an admission card and it is 
mandatory to submit the duly completed and attested admission card to the supervisor of the examination 
hall on the first day of the examination. 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1386
  issuance of an admission card to a candidate for the examination should not be taken as an acknowledgment 
that the candidate has satisfied the qualifications required to sit the examination.
 V .  the application should be prepared on the a4 paper of 22x29 cm by using both sides , and  Headings 01 
to 7.1 should be entered on the first page, and the rest on the other page. The relevant particulars should 
be entered very clearly in candidate’s own handwriting. all applications that do not conform to the format 
of the specimen application form , uncompleted applications ,shall be rejected without notice. It would 
be advisable to retain a copy of the application form with the applicant. Further, the candidate should 
satisfy herself / himself that the completed application conforms to the specimen application form before 
submitting. It is responsibility of the candidate to find out whether the completed application complies 
with the application specified in the notice If not, application will be rejected. Application should be 
prepared according to the specimen application form provided at the end of this notification . The name 
of the examination mentioned in the heading of the application should be written in English in Sinhala 
applications in addition to in Sinhala and in English in tamil applications in addition to in tamil.
 Vi .on the presumption that only the eligible persons who are mentioned in the gazette notification have applied 
and paid the prescribed examination fee and have properly submitted the  applications and forwarded 
the copy along with the respective receipt on or before the closing date of applications, the admissions 
will be issued for the applicants by the commissioner General of Examinations. a short message (SMS) 
will be sent by the department of Examinations to the candidates once the admissions are issued. any 
applicant, who has not received the admission within 02 or 03 days of the notice, should inquire from the 
institutional Examinations organization division of the department of Examinations. in such inquiry, 
the applicant should accurately mention the title of the examination applied, full name of the applicant, 
National identity card Number and the address. if the applicant is a resident outside of colombo, it will 
be effective to send a request letter to the fax number mentioned in the notice, along with the fax number 
of the applicant so that a copy of the admission can be obtained promptly via fax. in inquiring so, it will 
be useful to get prepared to produce the copy of the application kept with the applicant , the copy of the 
receipt obtained after paying examination fee, receipt registered in posting the application.
 Vii.  With the approval of the Public Service commission, the commissioner General of Examinations has the 
power to either postpone or cancel the examination.
 Viii. candidates will have to abide by the rules and regulations, enacted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations, regarding conducting the examination. if those rules and regulations are violated, the 
candidates are bound to undergo any punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations.
 ix. all candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall for 
each paper they sit. any of the following documents shall be accepted for this purpose. 
 (i) the National identity card
 (ii) a  valid Passport, 
 (iii)  a  valid Sri Lankan driving License
Moreover, all candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and 
both ears, so that the examination staff may easily verify their identity. Any candidate refusing 
to prove the identity is not allowed to enter the examination hall. Further, once entered the 
examination hall, all candidates should keep their face and both ears open until leaving the 
hall, so that the examination staff may verify their identity.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1387
 x.    the results would either be sent personally to the candidates or published on the website of the department 
of Examinations, www.results.exams.gov.lk .
 
  applicants serving in public service / provincial public service / state corporations, should submit their 
applications through their institution / department  heads. The officers who are attached to the  district 
offices of the Land Use Policy Planning Department , should forward their applications through the 
Assistant Director (District Land Use) of their district office. All candidates should have their signature 
attested by their head of the department prior to the examination.
12. the procedural rules of the Public Service commission, circulars issued from time to time governing the Public 
Service and the stipulations of the Service Minute of the  Executive Service category of the Land use Policy 
Planning department  with its amendments are applicable to this post.
13. furnishing false Information 
 If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess any of the required qualifications, his / her the candidature may 
be annulled at any stage before, during or after the examination. after selecting to the post, if it is revealed that any 
of the facts presented is incorrect or any significant fact has been willfully suppressed, action may be taken for the 
person in question to be discontinued from the service/ returned to the previous post / dismissed from service.
14. The final decision on any matter that does not include in this notice rests with the  Public Service Commission. The 
power of taking final decision for filling  vacancies or non-filing or filling part of the vacancies is with the Public 
Service commission.
 15. in case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of this notice, which is published in Sinhala, tamil and English 
Languages, the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct one.
 as per the order of the Public Service commission
 --------------------------------------------------------------
 the Secretary,
 Ministry of tourism and Lands,
 “Mihikatha Medura”,
 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
 07th day of June, 2024.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1388
Specimen Application
 
( For office use only)
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Departmental Assistant Director 
(Agronomy), Grade III of Executive Service Category of the Land Use Policy Planning Department -2024
Medium at the examination :  
 (write relevant No. in the cage)
Sinhala - 2             t amil - 3         English - 4
1.0  Name in Full (in English block letters): ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Eg:( HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE KuMaRa  GuNa W aRdHaNa)
1.1 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of other names at the end : (in block letters) 
 : ..................................................................................................................................................................................  
(Eg: GuNa W aRdHaNa  H.M.S.K)
1.2 Name in Full (in Sinhala/t amil) :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.0  Official Address (In English block letters):--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      (admission card will be posted to this address) 
 2.1 Permanent address (in Sinhala /t amil) :--------------------------------------------------------------------------
3.0  National identity card Number :
4.0  Gender  :
 Male -0     Female; -1 (write the relevant No. in the cage) 
5.0  Mobile t elephone No. :
Fixed t elephone No. :
 
6.0  civil Status:   
 Married – 1                          unmarried – 2             (write the relevant No. in the cage)
7.0  date of Birth :
 y ear                                            Month                                  date 
  7.1  age as at 17.05.2024 
years                                              Months                                 days

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1389
8.0  date of First appointment :-  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  8.1  Post  :-  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  8.2 Grade :- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9.0  Language Proficiency obtained   :-  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10.0  The district serving at present     ;-  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11.0 Basic degree obtained                :-   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12.0  details of receipt for payment of examination fees: 
  12.1 Post office/Sub-post office  at which the payment made :------------------------------------------------------------
  12.2  Receipt number and date :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        12.3  amount  paid :- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I declare that the information given here is true to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I will be subject to 
disqualification if the information is found to be false prior to my selection and I will be subject to dismissal without any 
compensation if it is discovered after the appointment. I further declare that I am subject to the rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the conduct of examinations and the issuance of results. 
 -------------------------------------
  Signature of the candidate 
date :……………
13.0  attestation of the Signature of the candidate :
I certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss ……………………………..who is an officer serving in my office submitting this 
application is personally known to me and he/she placed the signature before me on ………. day of …………… 
-------------------------------------
Signature of Certifying Officer. 
 (Should keep the rubber stamp)
date: --------------------------------
Full name of the Certifying officer :…………………………………………………………………………………    
designation :…………………………………………………………………………………
address  :…………………………………………………………………………………
14. attestation of the head of the department:-
I certify that the information submitted by the officer in this application is true and correct   and that the due 
examination fee has been paid and the receipt has been affixed.
as he/she is  eligible/ not eligible to appear for this examination , the application is recommended/not 
recommended .
date: --------------------------- ------------------------------------
                                                             Signature and official frank of the Head of   
 the department.
06 - 55/1
Firmly fix the receipt here with on border

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1390
PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION
ministry of Tourism and Lands
LiMitEd  coMPEtitiVE   ExaMiNatioN   FoR   REcRuitMENt  to  tHE   PoSt  oF   dEP aR tMENtaL  
aSSiStaNt  diREctoR   (aGRicuL tuRaL   EcoNoMicS )  GRadE   iii   oF   ExEcutiVE   SERVicE  
catEGoR y  oF   tHE   LaNd  uSE   PoLicy  PLaNNiNG   dEP aR tMENt - 2024
aPPLicatioNS  are called, on the direction of the Public Service Commission, from officers who possess following 
qualifications for the limited competitive examination to fill 01 existing vacancies in the post of Director (Agricultural 
Economics) Grade iii of Executive Service category of this department. this examination will be held in September at 
colombo district by the commissioner General of Examinations, Sri Lanka. applications prepared according to the specimen 
application form given at the end of this notice should be forwarded on or before the date given below to the commissioner 
General of Examinations, institutional Examinations organization Branch, department of Examinations, P.o. Box 1503, 
colombo under registered cover. the top left hand corner of the envelope should be written clearly “Limited competitive 
Examination for Recruitment to the Post of assistant director (agricultural Economics) of  the Land use Policy Planning 
department -2024”.
(a) the closing date of applications is 28.06.2024
Note: No complaints shall be considered to the effect that an application or related documents connected therewith were lost 
or delayed in the post. any loss that may cause due to the delay in submitting the application until the closing date will have 
to be borne by the applicants, themselves.
1. method of Recruitment 
The candidates who have been completed the qualifications mentioned in the notice, will be subject to a written 
test and subsequently called  the applicants who have been scored  highest  marks in the written test . a  number 
equal to five times existing vacancies will be called for the general interview from among the candidates who 
obtained highest marks at the written test by a list of viva voceprepared in alphabetical order . after that  they will 
be subjected  to a structured  interview and the suitable applicants recruited according to the order of merit of total 
marks obtained for the written examination and the viva voce examination, by the Public Service commission.
The  number recruited and  the effective date of the appointment will be determined  as per the order on the  Public 
Service commission .
2. Salary Scale
 this post is entitled to the salary scale as per (SL-01-2016) , Rs. 47,615-10x1335-8x1630-17x2170- Rs. 110,895/- 
(monthly) ,according to the appendix i of Public administration circular 03/2016 of 25.02.2016.  
3.  Conditions of Service :
             i. this post is permanent and pensionable.contribution should be made to the widows’ and orphans’ Pension 
Scheme.
 II. This post is subject to an acting period of one year.
 iii. in accordance with the provisions of Public administrative circulars 18 /2020 and circulars thereof, 
language proficiency should be obtained as required within 03 years of the recruitment.
 IV . This appointment  will be subject to the provisions of  the Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, Establishments code  of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,  Government Financial 
Regulations, departmental orders.
4. Educational Qualifications
a  degree in agriculture obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants commission of Sri Lanka 
(uGc).

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1391
5. Experience
   I.  Be a Development officer attached to the aforesaid department who has been assigned duties equivalent 
to the post of Land Use Planning Officer or the post of Land Use Planning Officer of the Land Use Policy 
Planning department.
  ii.  Shall have completed an active and satisfactory service period of 05 years in the Land use Policy Planning 
department.
 III. Be an officer permanent in the post.
 6. Physical Suitability
 Every candidate should be physically and mentally sound enough
   i. t o serve in any part of the island 
   ii. t o  perform duties of the post
   7. Age Limit:  age limit is not applicable as those who hold a permanent post already in the public service
  
8. Other Qualifications
 i. applicants should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ii. applicants have an excellent moral character
 III. Should have fulfilled all the necessary qualifications required to recruit to the post  by the closing date of 
the applications.
9. Written Examination
 9.1.  this examination will be conducted by the commissioner General of  Examinations. the limited 
competitive examination for the post is consisted with the following  question papers.
   
Subject No. Subject Time Maximum marks Pass marks
01 Subject Related Question Paper 03 hours 100 40%
02 intelligent test 03 hours 100 40%
  
 9.2. Syllabus
(a)  Subject Related Question Paper
 Knowledge in deciding  appropriate land use by adjusting the factors such as harvest, sales, input, 
agricultural loans in valuation of land with other physical factors, knowledge in make relevancy 
of  the appropriate crop patterns  through an analysis of  flowing discounted cash for agricultural 
crop cultivation , to the land use planning, effect of agricultural policies and plans in Sri Lanka 
to the agricultural development, production activities of agricultural crops, those potentials and 
knowledge on the market, agricultural loans and  relevant policies, knowledge in agricultural 
production.
(b) intelligent test
 Shall consist of 50 multiple-choice questions and/ or short answer type questions  to test the 
candidate’s analytical, interpretation , logical skills which are presented relevant to the numerical, 
linguistic and morphological structures and  relationships.
10. Interview 
 10.1. Structured interview 
  According to the priority of obtaining marks from the written examination, a number equal to five times 
existing vacancies will be called for the general interview from among the candidates and marks will be 
awarded by the board of interview appointed by the Public Service commission.at least 40% of the marks 

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1392
should be obtained for each subject  in written examination for calling for the interview. The method of 
awarding marks in the interview is as follows.
 
Fields which are examined and awarding marks Maximum marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications 20
02 Language Proficiency 15
03 V ocational Qualifications 20
04 Qualifications obtained in information technology/
computer science 
20
05 additional Experience 20
06 Skills performed at the interview 05
Grand t otal 100
11. Examination Conditions :
 i.  the examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, tamil and English mediums. a candidate can appear 
for the examination in only one language of her/his choice. all question papers have to be answered in 
the same medium. candidates will not be permitted to change the medium of examination in her/his 
application later. all candidate should be appeared for all 02 (two) question papers.
 II.  Examination Fees is Rs. 1200/- further, the examination fee should be paid cash to any post office/ sub 
post office in the island to be credited to the state revenue head under the Commissioner General of 
Examinations 20-03-02-13 and the receipt obtained in the name of the applicant should be affixed at one 
place on the edge of the application so that it does not slip.. it may also be helpful to retain a photocopy of 
the receipt.
    iii. the paid examination fee shall not be refunded for any reason.
 IV . The date of the examination will be notified later 
  Note:  No applicant will be allowed to enter the examination hall without an admission card and it is 
mandatory to submit the duly completed and attested admission card to the supervisor of the examination 
hall on the first day of the examination. 
  issuance of an admission card to a candidate for the examination should not be taken as an acknowledgment 
that the candidate has satisfied the qualifications required to sit the examination.
 V .  the application should be prepared on the a4 paper of 22x29 cm by using both sides , and  Headings 01 
to 7.1 should be entered on the first page, and the rest on the other page. The relevant particulars should 
be entered very clearly in candidate’s own handwriting. all applications that do not conform to the format 
of the specimen application form , uncompleted applications ,shall be rejected without notice. It would 
be advisable to retain a copy of the application form with the applicant. Further, the candidate should 
satisfy herself / himself that the completed application conforms to the specimen application form before 
submitting. It is responsibility of the candidate to find out whether the completed application complies 
with the application specified in the notice If not, application will be rejected. Application should be 
prepared according to the specimen application form provided at the end of this notification . The name 
of the examination mentioned in the heading of the application should be written in English in Sinhala 
applications in addition to in Sinhala and in English in tamil applications in addition to in tamil.
 Vi.  on the presumption that only the eligible persons who are mentioned in the Gazette notification  have applied 
and paid the prescribed examination fee and have properly submitted the  applications and forwarded 
the copy along with the respective receipt on or before the closing date of applications, the admissions 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1393
will be issued for the applicants by the commissioner General of Examinations. a short message (SMS) 
will be sent by the department of Examinations to the candidates once the admissions are issued. any 
applicant, who has not received the admission within 02 or 03 days of the notice, should inquire from the 
institutional Examinations organization division of the department of Examinations. in such inquiry, 
the applicant should accurately mention the title of the examination applied, full name of the applicant, 
National identity card Number and the address. if the applicant is a resident outside of colombo, it will 
be effective to send a request letter to the fax number mentioned in the notice, along with the fax number 
of the applicant so that a copy of the admission can be obtained promptly via fax. in inquiring so, it will 
be useful to get prepared to produce the copy of the application kept with the applicant , the copy of the 
receipt obtained after paying examination fee, receipt registered in posting the application.
 Vii. With the approval of the  Public Service commission, the commissioner General of Examinations has the 
power to either postpone or cancel the examination.
 Viii. candidates will have to abide by the rules and regulations, enacted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations, regarding conducting the examination. if those rules and regulations are violated, the 
candidates are bound to undergo any punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations.
 ix. all candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall for 
each paper they sit. any of the following documents shall be accepted for this purpose.
 
 (i) the National identity card
 (ii) a  valid Passport, 
 (iii) a  valid Sri Lankan driving License
  Moreover, all candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and both 
ears, so that the examination staff may easily verify their identity. Any candidate refusing to prove 
the identity is not allowed to enter the examination hall. Further, once entered the examination 
hall, all candidates should keep their face and both ears open until leaving the hall, so that the 
examination staff may verify their identity.
 x.    the results would either be sent personally to the candidates or published on the website of the department 
of Examinations, www.results.exams.gov.lk .
  applicants serving in Public Service / provincial public service / state corporations, should submit their 
applications through their institution / department  heads. The officers who are attached to the  district 
offices of the Land Use Policy Planning Department , should forward their applications through the 
Assistant Director(District Land Use) of their district office. All candidates should have their signature 
attested by their head of the department prior to the examination.
12. the procedural rules of the Public Service commission, circulars issued from time to time governing the Public 
Service and the stipulations of the Service Minute of the  Executive Service category of the Land use Policy 
Planning department  with its amendments are applicable to this post.
13. furnishing false Information :
 If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess any of the required qualifications, his / her the candidature may 
be annulled at any stage before, during or after the examination. after selecting to the post, if it is revealed that any 
of the facts presented is incorrect or any significant fact has been willfully suppressed, action may be taken for the 
person in question to be discontinued from the service/ returned to the previous post / dismissed from service.
14. The final decision on any matter that does not include in this notice rests with the  Public Service Commission. The 
power of taking final decision for filling  vacancies or non-filling or filling part of the vacancies is with the Public 
Service commission.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1394
15. in case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of this notice, which is published in Sinhala, tamil and English 
languages, the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct one.
 as per the order of the Public Service commission
 --------------------------------------------------------------
 the Secretary,
 Ministry of tourism and Lands,
 “Mihikatha Medura”
 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla
 07th June, 2024
 
Specimen Application
 
( For office use only)
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Departmental Assistant Director 
(Agricultural Economics) Grade III of Executive Service Category of the Land Use Policy Planning 
Department -2024
Medium at the examination :  
 (write relevant No. in the cage)
Sinhala - 2             tamil - 3         English - 4
1.0  Name in Full (in English block letters): ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Eg:( HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE KuMaRa  GuNaW aRdHaNa)
1.1 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of other names at the end : (in block letters) 
 : ..................................................................................................................................................................................  
(eg: GuNa W aRdHaNa H.M.S.K)
1.2 Name in Full (in Sinhala/t amil) :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2:0  Official Address (In English block letters):--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      (admission card will be posted to this address) 
 2.1 Permanent address (in Sinhala /t amil) :--------------------------------------------------------------------------
3.0  National identity card Number :
4.0  Gender  :
 Male -0     Female; -1 ((write the relevant No. in the cage) 
5.0  Mobile telephone No. :-
Fixed telephone No. :-
 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1395
6.0  civil Status: -  
 Married – 1                          unmarried – 2             (write the relevant No. in the cage)
7.0  date of Birth 
 y ear                                            Month                                  date 
  7.1  age as at 17.05.2024 
y ears                                              Months                                 days
8.0  date of First appointment :-  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  8.1  Post  :-  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  8.2 Grade :- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9.0  Language Proficiency obtained   :-  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10.0  The district serving at present     ;-  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11.0 Basic degree obtained                :-   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12.0  details of receipt for payment of examination fees: 
  12.1 Post office/Sub-post office  at which the payment made :------------------------------------------------------------
  12.2  Receipt number and date :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        12.3  amount  paid :- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I declare that the information given here is true to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I will be subject to 
disqualification if the information is found to be false prior to my selection and I will be subject to dismissal without any 
compensation if it is discovered after the appointment. I further declare that I am subject to the rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the conduct of examinations and the issuance of results. 
 -------------------------------------
  Signature of the candidate. 
date :……………
13.0  attestation of the Signature of the candidate :
I certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss ……………………………..who is an officer serving in my office submitting this 
application is personally known to me and he/she placed the signature before me on ………. day of …………… 
-------------------------------------
Signature of Certifying Officer 
 (Should keep the rubber stamp)
date: --------------------------------
Firmly fix the receipt here with on border

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1396
Full name of the Certifying officer :…………………………………………………………………………………    
designation :…………………………………………………………………………………
address  :…………………………………………………………………………………
14. attestation of the head of the department:-
I certify that the information submitted by the officer in this application is true and correct   and that the due 
examination fee has been paid and the receipt has been affixed.
as he/she is  eligible/ not eligible to appear for this examination , the application is recommended/not 
recommended .
date: --------------------------- ------------------------------------
                                                             Signature and official frank of the Head of   
 the department.
06 - 55/2 

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'06'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2024
1397
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2024
 JuNE  07.06.2024 Friday — 22.05.2024 Wednesday 12 noon
  14.06.2024 Friday –– 31.05.2024 Friday 12 noon
  20.06.2024 thursday –– 07.06.2024 Friday 12 noon
  28.06.2024 Friday –– 14.06.2024 Friday 12 noon
 JuL y  05.07.2024 Friday — 20.06.2024 thursday 12 noon
  12.07.2024 Friday –– 28.06.2024 Friday 12 noon
  19.07.2024 Friday –– 05.07.2024 Friday 12 noon
  26.07.2024 Friday –– 12.07.2024 Friday 12 noon
 AuGuST  02.08.2024 Friday — 19.07.2024 Friday 12 noon
  09.08.2024 Friday –– 26.07.2024 Friday 12 noon
  16.08.2024 Friday –– 02.08.2024 Friday 12 noon
  23.08.2024 Friday –– 09.08.2024 Friday 12 noon
  30.08.2024 Friday –– 16.08.2024 Friday 12 noon
  
 Gangani Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2024.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  oF   GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.