

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.06.2006
693
693
¡â¤ 1,451 _ 2006  °Œ¾ł 23  Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.06.23
No. 1,451 – FRIDAY ,  JUNE  23,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 696
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 699
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th June, 2006 should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 16nd June, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N.B.— Quarterly Statement of Book for July - September  1999 has been  Published on  Part V  of the Gazette No. 1,451 of  23.06.2006.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.06.2006
694
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.06.2006
695
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B 2—B 079275

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.06.2006
696
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY  OF SPORTS AND YOUTH  AFFAIRS  DRIVER, PRIMARY LEVEL (SKILLED)
GRADE III VACANCIES IN CLASS II “B”
1.0 APPLICATIONS are  invited from  citizens of Sri Lanka for  the post  of Driver in the  Primary Level (skilled) Grade III of class II “B”
under  the Ministry of  Sports and Youth Affairs.
2.0 Method of recruitment :
The candidates are expected  to sit  a written test  conducted by the  Secretary, Ministry  of Sports and Youth Affairs  and the
successful  candidates are required   to appear for an interview  and  practical  test. The  existing  vacancies will be filled  with  persons having
the highest qualifications.
3.0 Conditions of Servive:
These  appointments shall be controlled  by the Minutes  relating to “Unified Service Minutes for Drivers of motor vehicles in
the  Public  Service”  published  in the  gazette  of the  Democratic  Socialist Republic  of Sri Lanka of No. 1101/9 of 13th October, 1999.
These appointments shall also be subject to provisions in the Establishment  Code  and Financial Regulations.
4.0 Terms of Engagement  :
These posts are  permanent and shall be subject to the  contributory pension. The persons selected will have  to undergo a
probationary period  of three years.  The  persons recruited  shall contribute to the  Widow’s and Orphan’s Pension  Fund.
5.0 Qualifications :
5.1 Shall be  a citizen of Sri Lanka
5.2 Shall not be less  than 18 years and not more  than 45 years as at the last  date of acceptance of the applications
5.3 Shall be of a good  moral character
5.4 Should have passed at least Grade 8/Year 9 in a school recognized  by the  Director General of Education.
5.5 Should  posses a Certificate of Competence issued by the  Commissioner of Motor Traffic for drive hiring
vehicles and Station Wagons with  a tare  of 24 tons. (The relevant certificates should  have  been  obtaines 3
years  prior to the  date  of recruitment. (Class C and  C 01 vehicles)
5.6 Shall posses at least 03  years experience as  a driver  (shall be established by  certificates)
5.7 Minimum  height  shall  be 5'  2 1/2'',
5.8 Shall be in a sound physical condition  to work during daytime  and night. The candidate should  have good
eyesight.
6.0 Salary scale :
The  monthly salary scale applicable shall  be Rs. 12,360- 10 - 110 - 10 x 120 - 10 x 130 - 12 x 140 - 17,640 for Primary level
(skilled) III, II, I and Special Grades in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 of 25.04.2006.  The  persons recruited shall be
required to pass the  efficiency bar examinations at Grade II prior to the salary point  of Rs. 13,460 Grade I prior to the salary  point  of
Rs. 14,660 and prior to the salary point  of Rs. 15,960 prior to appointment to Special Grade.
7.0 Method of Application :
7.1 The  application should  be prepared on 8  1/2'' x 12'' size as per  specimen application.
7.2 The duly completed  form  should  be sent to the Secretary, Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs, No. 420,
Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 07 to reach him on or before  14.07.2006, under registered cover, “Driver
Calss  II B” should be indicated on the top  left - hand  corner of the envelope  enclosing  the application.
S. W
IRITHAMULLA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Sports and  Youth Affairs.
No. 420, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Colombo,
23rd May 2006.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.06.2006
697
Ministry of Sports and Y outh  Affairs
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
POST   OF  PRIMARY  LEVEL   (SKILLED ) GRADE  III DRIVER  CLASS  II “B”
1.0 Name (with  initials): _______.
1.1 Name denoted by initials : _______.
1.2 National Identity Card  Number
2.0 Permanent Address : _______.
3.0 Date of Birth Date : _______.Month : _______. Year : _______.
3.1 Age as at 14.07.2006.
Date : _______. Months : _______. Years : _______.
4.0 Nationality : _______.
5.0 Educational Qualifications : _______.
(Please indicate the highest qualification obtained)
5.1 Experience : _______.
5.2 Class of Driving License obtained: _______.
6.0 Have you been  convicted in any Court  of Law?
If “yes” give particulars : _______.
I do  hereby declare that the  particulars provided by me  here in are true  and accurate. I  am also   aware that if any  particulars
contained herein are  found  to be false or incorrect before selection. I am  liable to  be disqualified and  dismissed  if the inaccuracy is
discovered after the appointment.
_______.
Signature of Applicant.
Date  : _______.
06-492
REGISTRAR     GENERAL’S      DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths – Kandy District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Post of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.06.2006
698
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th July, 2006.
L. K. RATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
01st June, 2006.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’ s Applications are called Applications
Division should be sent
Kandy Panwila Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/
(Kandyan/General) in Panwila area of Addl. Registrar
the Patha Dumbara Division General,
District Secretariat,
Kandy.
Do Thumpane Post of Registrar of Marriages  Do
(Kandyan/General) in Thumpane and
births and deaths in Thumpane Gan Ata
Palatha Divison
Do Four Gravet and Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages Do
Gangawata Korale (Kandyan/General) in Gatambe area in
Four Garvet and Gangawata Korale
Do Yatinuwara Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages
(Kandyan/General) in Udunuwara, Do
Yatinuwara
Do Udapalatha Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages Do
(Kandyan/General) in Dunukeulla area
in Udapalatha Division
06-529

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.06.2006
699
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
NOTARIES FINAL EXAMINATION HELD IN DECEMBER
2005
IT is hereby notified that the following candidates have passed the
Notaries Final Examination of Notaries to act as Notaries Public in
the  languages shown  alongside their  names:
Name Medium
1. Mr. N. De S. Gunamuni Sinhala
2. Mr. K. A. N. Wijerathne Sinhala
3. Mr. H. R. Podibanda Sinhala
4. Mrs. K. P. K. Kusumawathi Sinhala
5. Mr. P. Parasuraman T amil
6. Mr. M. M. M. Nakshabi T amil
7. Mr. A. R. M. Shafee T amil
8. Mr. M. A. S. Chitrasena Sinhala
9. Mr. M. S. A. Sahran T amil
10. Mr. K. L. J. M. Fernando Sinhala
11. Mr. H. M. Jayawardena Sinhala
12. Mrs. K. A. K. D. C. Y . ChitranaganiSinhala
13. Mrs. T. D. U. Ganga Sinhala
Name Medium
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
14. Mr. P. A. Weerathunga Sinhala
15. Mrs. W. G. Somawathi Sinhala
16. Mr. C. S. Piyadasa Sinhala
17. Mr. A. L. M. Munas T amil
18. Miss. A. D. H. Gunawardena Sinhala
19. Mr. K. A. D. P. Kuruppu Sinhala
20. Mr. W. A. D. P. Gunasinghe Sinhala
21. Mr. U. Kularathne Sinhala
22. Mr. D. P. Amarakoon Sinhala
23. Mr. M. H. M. Aridh T amil
L. K. RATNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
05th June, 2006.
06-611