

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2593
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2584 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"354 – 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 13 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'10'13
No. 2,354  –  fRiday,  octobER 13, 2023
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03
rd November, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th october, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2581 - b 082504 - 5,403 (10/2023)
Note.–    (i) appropriation bill was published as a supplement to the part iii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka of September 27, 2023.
 (ii) finance bill was published as a supplement to the part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 
Spetember 27, 2023.
N. B.–  Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2353 of 06.10.2023 was not published. 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2582
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2583
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2584
Posts - v acant 
SRI   LANkA   NAvy
v ACANCIES fOR SAILORS IN ThE ARTIfICER (DIRECT ENTR y) bRANChES Of  
SRI LANkA REGuLAR NA v AL fORCE
1. Vacancies exist for Artificers in the Artificer (direct entry) Branches of the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force.
2. Applications are called from male candidates possessing the following qualifications. Candidates should essentially 
fulfil the following general conditions to be recruited to the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force.
 a. Nationality : - Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 b. age  : - Not less than 18 years and not more than 33 years as at                       
    13th  November 2023.
 c. Height : - Must not be less than 5 feet and 5 inches 
 d. Weight : - Must not be less than 47 kg (105 pounds)
 e. chest : - Must not be less than 32 inches
 f. colour Vision : - Std ii 
 g. Visual acuity : - Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without spectacles and lenses)
 h. civil Status : - both married/ unmarried applicants can apply . 
3. Vacancies (branches) 
 a. Engine Room Artificer
 b. Automobile Artificer
 c. Electrical Artificer  (Power Generation Distribution and Control and Automation)
 d. Radio Electronic Artificer (Electronic & Telecommunication / Data Communication Field)
  
4. Educational Qualifications
 a. Should have passed the G.C.E (O/L) Examination in not more than two attempts with 06 subjects including 
credit passes for Mathematics, Science and Mother t ongue and a Simple pass for English. 
 b. Should have passed the G.c.E (a/L) Examination in one sitting.
  
(1) Mathematics Stream  – Simple passes for combined 
Maths and Physics
Engine Room Artificer, Auto 
Mobile Artificer
(2) t echnology Stream – Simple passes for Engineering 
t echnology and Science for 
t echnology   
Engine Room Artificer, Auto 
Mobile Artificer
(3) Mathematics Stream 
or biology Stream or    
t echnology Stream
– t wo simple Passes Electrical Artificer Radio 
Electrical Artificer
                                                             
5. Professional Qualification 
 a. Engine Room Artificer (Class III)
 (1) Should have successfully completed a Marine/ Mechanical Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ 
Level V/ Vi

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2585
Preferable -
 (a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt) in Marine.
        or
 (b) Successful completion of Higher National diploma in Engineering (Mechanical)
        or
 (c) Successful completion of National diploma in Engineering Sciences NdES (Marine)
        or
 (d) Successful completion of National diploma in technology and Education (Mechanical)
        or
 (e) Successful completion of Marine/ Mechanical diploma course with NVQ Level V/Vi 
standards from an approved institute by tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(TVEC) or an equivalent institute which can grant the same qualification.       
     
 (2) Three (03) years of experience or more in relevant field in a government or a private institute. 
 b. Engine Room Artificer (Class IV)
 (1) Should have successfully completed a Marine/ Mechanical Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ 
Level V/ Vi 
Preferable -  
 (a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt) in Marine.
        or
 (b) Successful completion of Higher National diploma in Engineering (Mechanical)
        or
 (c) Successful completion of National diploma in Engineering Sciences NdES (Marine)
        or
 (d) Successful completion of National diploma in technology and Education (Mechanical)
        or
 (e) Successful completion of Marine/ Mechanical diploma course with NVQ Level V/Vi 
standards from an approved institute by tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(TVEC) or an equivalent institute which can grant the same qualification.        
      
 (2) Minimum One (01) year of experience in relevant field in a government or a private institute. 
 c. Automobile Artificer (Class III)
 (1) Should have successfully completed an automobile Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ Level  
V/ Vi
Preferable -
 (a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt) (Mechanical)
     or
 (b) Successful completion of tti diploma in automotive Engineering 
      or
 (c) Successful completion of National diploma in automobile technology from University 
college of Kuliyapitiya
      or
 (d) Successful completion of diploma in automobile Engineering from ceylon Germen 
tech

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2586
      or
 (e) Successful completion of diploma in automobile Engineering from automobile 
Engineering training institute orugodawatta
      or
 (f) Successful completion of Equivalent automobile diploma course with NVQ Level V/ Vi 
standards from an approved institute by tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(TVEC) or an equivalent institute which can grant same qualification.
    
 (2) Three (03) years of experience or more in relevant field in a government or a private institute.
 d. Automobile Artificer (Class IV)
 (1) Should have successfully completed automobile Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ Level V/ Vi
Preferable -
 (a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt) in Mechanical
      or
 (b) Successful completion of tti diploma in automotive Engineering 
      or
 (c) Successful completion of National diploma in automobile technology (University 
college of Kuliyapitiya)
      or
 (d) Successful completion of diploma in automobile Engineering (ceylon Germen tech)
      or
 (e) Successful completion of automobile Engineering training institute orugodawatta
      or
 (f) Successful completion of Equivalent automobile diploma course with NVQ Level V/ Vi 
standards from an approved institute by tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(TVEC) or an equivalent institute which can grant same qualification.
    
 (2) Minimum One (01) year of experience in relevant field in a government or a private institute.
 e. Electrical Artificer (Class IV)
 (1) Should have successfully completed Electrical Engineering/ Electrical and Electronic Engineering/ 
industrial automation/ Mechatronic Engineering diploma equivalent to NVQ Level V
Preferable -
       
 (a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt)
        or
 (b) Successful completion of Higher National diploma in Engineering (HNdE)
        or
 (c) Successful completion of National diploma in Engineering Sciences NdES
        or
 (d) Successful completion of National diploma in technology and Education
      
 (2) One (01) year of experience or more in relevant field in a government or a private institute.
 f. Radio Electronic Artificer (Class IV)
 (1) Should have successfully completed Electronic Engineering/ telecommunication Engineering/ 
Networking diploma equivalent to NVQ Level V .

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2587
Preferable -
 (a) Successful completion of National diploma in technology (Ndt)
      or
 (b) Successful completion of Higher National diploma in Engineering (HNdE)
      or
 (c) Successful completion of National diploma in Engineering Sciences NdES.
      or
 (d) Successful completion of National diploma in technology and Education.
    
 (2) One (01) year of experience or more in relevant field in a government or a private institute.
6. Applications of candidates who have not fulfilled the requirements of Para 2 and 4 will be rejected. On arrival for the 
first interview the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight are below the 
standards specified in the Gazette Notification will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill of 
value to the service may at the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy be considered even though he may 
not have the requisite height.
7.  Service conditions
 
 a. Candidates will be initially enlisted as artificer class III, class IV rates and they are required to undergo basic 
training courses.
 b. During and after the period of training, the enlisted sailors shall be subject to the Naval Law.
 c. all the enlisted sailors will be provided with uniforms and other equipment.
 d. during the period of training, the enlisted sailors will be provided with accommodation and food by the Sri 
Lanka Navy.
 e. during the training period, if an enlisted sailor desires to get his candidature dismissed, the sailor is required 
to pay back to the government of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred so far by the government of Sri Lanka 
for his training.
 f. during the training period, due to a misconduct of the sailor or due to any other reason which the sailor is 
responsible for, if the responsible authorities determine that he is not eligible for the service of the Navy, the 
sailor, on that occasion itself, should enter into a bond with the Navy commander as the representative of 
the Socialist democratic Republic of Sri Lanka agreeing that he will pay back all costs incurred for him to 
the Sri Lanka Navy.
 g.  Either for duties or training, all Sailors are bound to be attached to any part of Sri Lanka or a foreign country.
8. Official Languages Requirement: The selected candidates are required to obey all commands and legislation that have 
already been and likely to be enacted for implementation of the Official Languages Policy that comes under the Official 
Languages act, No.33 of 1956.
9. Salaries and allowances
  
 the payments from the date 01.01.2020 will be made according to the Management Services circular No. 03/ 2016. 
accordingly, 
 
 a. basic salary  - Rs. 33,490.00
 b. cost of living allowance - Rs. 7,800.00
 c. Uniform cleaning allowance - Rs. 350.00
 d. Hard line allowance (for operational areas) - Entitled after basic training

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2588
 e. Hard line allowance 
  (for Non-operational areas)  -  Entitled after basic training
 f. other allowances - Special allowance Rs. 1000.00 
   - Special additional allowance 
    Rs. 3,000.00
 g. interim allowance -  Rs. 5,000.00
  Minimum total salary - Rs. 50,640.00 
 h.  three sets of railway warrants per year will be granted (as applicable to the sailor, spouse, children and 
dependents)
 i. an additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for the sailors living in the camp to 
travel from the billet to their home will be granted once a month.
 j. Free medical facilities will be provided (as applicable to the sailor, spouse, children and dependents)
 k.  Married sailors who are not residing in government quarters, will be entitled to a house rent allowance from 
Rs 2,400.00 to Rs 6,600.00 
 l. Quarters will be provided to the married sailors based on the availability of vacancies in the quarters 
reserved for married sailors. Rent will be charged according to the public servants.
10. instructions to applicants:-
 a.  Duly filled application by the candidate himself with clear handwriting should be submitted as per the 
specimen application to SENIOR STAff  OffICER (RECRuITING), NA vy  hEADQuARTERS, P.O. 
bOX 593, COLOmbO by registered post before 12.00 noon of 13
th   November 2023. applications that 
are not sent by registered post will be rejected. “Recruitment of Direct Entry Artificer Sailors” should be 
indicated on the top left corner of the envelope. Late applications and unqualified applications will not be 
entertained. for further information, please contact 011-7195162, 011-7195155 or visit www.navy.lk.
 b.  candidates who are in Government Service/ corporations/ boards/ civil Establishments should forward 
their applications through their Heads of department/ corporations/ boards/ civil Establishments and 
should bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
 c.  candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
 (1).  Certificate of registration of birth;
 (2).  Certificates in support of the educational qualifications required for the branch applied for;
 (3).  School leaving certificate;
 (4).  Grama Niladhari certificate (Taken within six month to closing date);
 (5).  Certificates of professional/ technical training and/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution;
 (6).  Three recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last 
school attended and the other from a responsible person who has known the applicant for more 
than two years, or from the present employer (if employed);
 (7)  Certificates in sports and other activities. 
 d.  applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
 e.  No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2589
 f.  The Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
11.  Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable for disqualification if the 
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after selection. 
12. Selection interviews etc .:- 
 a.  Candidates who fulfil the above conditions are required to undergo the preliminary medical test prescribed 
by the Sri Lanka Navy. only the candidates who pass the medical test should undergo the following Physical 
Endurance test. the candidates who pass the said Physical Endurance test shall have to appear for an 
interview before a Selection board.  
 b. Requirements to be fulfilled at the Physical Endurance Test
exercise Time(Minutes/Seconds) Rounds
1600 m run
Push up
Sit up
arm bending
07 minutes and 30 seconds 
01 minutes
01 minutes
01minutes
-
20 or more
15 or more 
07 or more
 c.  candidates who were selected for the interviews will be informed of the date, time and place of such 
interviews through Whatsapp/ e-mail and no information will be sent in writing by post. travelling or other 
expenses will not be paid in this respect.
 d.  on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview, he is to produce his National identity card 
issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
 e.  Candidates who are likely to be selected for their final interviews are required to present themselves before 
Sri Lanka Navy Medical board.
 f. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such 
candidate.
 g.  Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified. 
Note- this gazette  notification will be published in the three languages Sinhala, Tamil and English. In 
case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, tamil and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 
       UVMP PERERa, RSP**, USP, ndu, psc
    Vice admiral
    commander of the Navy
    Sri Lanka Navy Headquarters,
    P.o. box 593,
    colombo 01.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2590
APPLICATION TO RECRuIT (DIRECT ENTR y) ARTIfICERS TO ThE SRI LANkA REGuLAR NA v AL 
fORCE
 01. Nationality: 
  (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if registration quote number and date of 
certificate)
 02. Stream applied (in priority order) :
 03. full Name (as per the National identity card):
 04. National identity card Number: 
 05. Permanent address: 
 06. Postal address:
 07. date of birth: 
 08. age y ears: ..........., Months:..........,days :.........( as at 13th November 2023):
 09. Height: ..........., (feet & inches) chest. :……….., (inches) Weight:……., (Kg)  
 10. Nearest Police Station to the permanent address:
 11. district: 
 12. Electorate:
 13. GS division:
 14. t elephone Number: 
 15. Whatsapp Number: 
 16. civil Status:
 17. Gender:
 18. Schools attended (in order):
 19. Particulars of School/ Schools or university attended:
Name of school university Type of
examination passed
Year of
examination
Subject passed (Including 
grading)
ordinary   Level :
advanced   Level :
other
 20. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University: - (if applicable)
Name and address 
of employer
Nature of
employment
Period of service
From To
 21. Particulars of parents:-
 
Full Name Place of
birth
Occupation Present
Address
father
Mother
 22. Any special qualification for the post:
 23. details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated in with dates/ years etc. 
and standards / levels achieved):
 24. other achievements of note at School / University or at outside organizations (Give details with dates/ years etc.):
 25. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps or boy Scout organization: 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2591
 26. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the 
outcome of such applications:
 27. Have you ever been convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details:
 28. if employed earlier in a Government department or in the Public Sector / board / corporation (including the 
central bank, National banks, Universities, Joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc .) reasons for 
termination of such employment: 
 29. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
 30. declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
i declare on my honor that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for the Artificer branches in the Sri Lanka Navy which are published in the Gazette 
of the Government of Sri Lanka. 
    
date:––––––––––                    ––––––––––––––––––– 
           Signature of applicant.   
    
10-134
_______________________________________
REGISTRAR  GENERAL 'S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages/ Additonal marriages (General) - Sinhala medium
GaMPaHa diStRict
applications are called for the Post of Registrar of births, deaths and Marriages additional Marriages for the divisions set 
out in the schedule hereof;
 01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages division 
and entitled to reasonalble properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has aquired sufficient 
interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
 02. both Male and female candidates can apply for this post.
 03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
 04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriage should be married and should not be a widow/widower or divorced.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2592
 05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than two (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any 
other similar examination.
  N. B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could 
be obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional 
Secretariat or relevant land District Registries, Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices 
and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said "annex - 01" inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could aslo be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 13.11.2023 by registered post to the address given in the 
schedule.
 W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
 Registrar General.
on this 22
nd  day of September 2023,
Registrar General's department.
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
battaramulla.
ScHEdULE
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which 
Applications should be 
sent
Gampaha Katana Post of births and deaths 
Registrar of Raddolugama 
division and post of 
Marriages (General) 
Registrar of aluthkuru 
Koralaya South division
district Secretary/ 
additional Registrar 
General, district 
Secretariat, Gampaha
Gampaha Minuwangoda Post of births and deaths 
Registrar of Udugampola 
division and post of 
Marriages (General) 
Registrar of aluthkuru 
Koralaya North division
district Secretary/ 
additional Registrar 
General, district 
Secretariat, Gampaha
10-136

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2593
mINISTR y  Of fINANCE, ECONOmIC STAbILIzATION AND NATIONAL POLICIES
SRI LANkA CuSTOmS DEPARTmENT
t o: chief inspectors of customs and
       inspector of customs Grade i
LiMitEd coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR PRoMotioN to tHE PoSt  of aSSiStaNt  
SUPERiNtENdENt  of cUStoMS, GRadE ii of SRi LaNKa  cUStoMS dEP aR tMENt - 2023
applications are called from 
(a) the chief inspector of customs or
(b) The officers in Inspector of Customs holding permanent appointment in Grade I with 02 years of service and who 
have fulfilled the following qualifications, to fill the 15% of posts of Assistant Superintendent of Customs Grade II.
01. Qualifications
1.1 Experience
i Have been confirmed in the post of Chief Inspector of Customs or in the post of Inspector of Customs Grade I 
with 02 years of service.
ii Have demonstrated satisfactory performance or above during the last 05 years preceding the closing date of the 
submission of the application, as per the approved performance appraisal procedure. 
1.2 other
i Should not be subjected to disciplinary action during the prescribed period as per Public Service Commission 
circular No. 01/2020 
ii It is mandatory to complete the qualifications mentioned in 01 above before 06.11.2023, the closing date of 
acceptance of the applications. 
02. the application has been published on www.doenets.lk , website of the Department of Examinations on “Online 
Applications – Recruitment Exams” under “Our Services” and, applications should be submitted through online only. The 
closing date for receiving application is 06.11.2023. Submission of online applications is open from 16
th  October 2023  
at 9.00 a.m. and closed on 06 th  November 2023 at 12.00 midnight. three (3) days after the closing date for receiving 
application is given to do revisions to the applications. once the online application is submitted it should be downloaded, 
relevant parts of the printed copy should be filled, the signature of the applicant should be attested and the completed 
application with the certification of the head of the institution should be sent by registered post to reach the Department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka on or before the closing date of acceptance of applications.
online applications should be completed only in the English language. once both the soft copy of the online application 
and the printout, sent by registered post are received by the department of Examinations, such soft copy and printout will 
be verified and it will be notified that the department accepts/does not accept the application as a valid application via a 
SMS to the mobile phone number, used to access to the system or to the e-mail address. before completing the application, 
download the common instructions, prepare to apply for the examination. Strictly follow these instructions when filing out 
the application. No amendment made to the application after obtaining a printout of the application will be considered as a 
valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice. The applications received after the closing date 
of applications will not be accepted.
the examination fee is Rs. 600/-. Payment of examination fee should be made only by the following methods, provided by 
the online system. 
i. any bank credit card
ii. any bank debit card with the facility of online transaction  
iii. online banking method of bank of ceylon
iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon
Note:- 
(a) instructions on the methods of payment under the above methods have been given under the technical 
instructions for the examination of the website. 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2594
(b) Payment will be notified by a SMS or e-mail. The full amount for the examination fee should be paid and 
applications that pay less or more examination fees will be rejected. The Department of Examinations will 
not be responsible for the delays in the payment of examination fees by aforesaid methods. 
(c) the examination fee shall not be refunded or transferred to any other examination due to any reason.
03.  this examination will consist of two parts, a written examination, and a general interview. the marks and time given 
for each subject in the written examination are given as follows: 
Part 1- Written Examination
        t otal marks Pass marks
(01)  aptitude test (01 Hour)                   100 marks     50
(02)  English Language (01 ½ hours)        100 marks     50
(03)  customs Law and Procedures (03 hours)    100 marks     50
                 
Part 2 - General interview (No Marks awarded)
Recruitment to the post will occur after verifying the qualifications of candidates by conducting a general interview 
with a sufficient number of candidates. This process aims to recruit suitable candidates for the number of vacancies 
in the post, based on the merit of the marks of candidates who have fulfilled the relevant qualifications and passed 
the written examination, to assess whether they possess the basic qualifications required for recruitment.
This examination will be conducted in all three mediums; Sinhala, Tamil, and English. Applicants should sit for the whole 
examination in the same medium. it is not permitted to change the applied medium later. the applicants can apply for the 
examination medium in which they passed the qualifying examination to enter their present service. the decision of the 
Commissioner General of Examination relevant to conducting the examination and release of results will be the final.
04. The syllabus of the subjects of the examination is given below:
4.1 Syllabus for “Aptitude test” paper: this will consist of 50 questions including both multiple-choice and questions 
for short answers to test the language skills and the logical capability of applicants. 
4.2 Syllabus for “English Language” question paper: this is to test the reading, writing, comprehension, and 
communication skills of the applicants.
4.3 Syllabus for “Customs Law and Procedures” question paper: 
i. 
•	 Landing sea/ air cargo, storing and clearing
•	 Duties assigned to a Grade II officer of Assistant Superintendent of Customs, in charge of the import warehouse
•	 closing the blue book
•	 Duties and responsibilities assigned to a Grade II officer of Assistant Superintendent of Customs, in charge of 
the liquor warehouse
ii. Exports 
• the procedure followed in shipping sea cargo
• Examining export details
• Preparation of inventory
iii. transitional goods 
•	 Storage and shipping cargo
•	 Preparation of register for transitional goods (cargo)
•	 coastal shipping

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2595
iv. clearance procedure relevant to bonded warehouses
v. General – Refunds and conditions for approving refunds
•	 Regulations applied in refunding duties, list of prohibited and restricted goods (in and out of the country)
•	 the powers vested under the customs ordinance to take actions for not declaring goods, falsely declaring, or 
declaring lower rates.
•	 the procedures prescribed in the customs ordinance regarding inspections and arrests.
•	 Provisions provided under the customs ordinance against forged transportation, all the departmental orders 
(DOPL) in connection with the duties of officers.  
05. 5.1 applicants who have scored at least 50 marks for each of the three (03) question papers aptitude test, English, 
and customs Law & Procedure, will be eligible for calling to the general interview. applicants who have passed the 
entrance examination and qualified in the interview will be selected for appointment subject to the number of vacancies 
approved for the respective posts and not more than 10% of the number of vacancies approved for recruitment shall be 
reserved for women officers.  
 
     5.2 Release of results 
the results sheet including the names of applicants who are eligible as per above chapter 5.1 will be forwarded to the 
director General of customs.  the department of Examinations will inform the results to all the applicants who sat 
for the examination, via post or official website of the department www.results.exams.gov.lk
06. 6.1 the commissioner General of examinations will issue the admission cards to the applicants on the assumption 
that only the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications referred to in the Gazette notification have forwarded the 
applications. the department of Examinations will publish a paper notice immediately after the issuance of admissions 
to applicants. if admissions have not been received after 2-3 days of this notice, it should be informed to the institutional 
Examination organization branch of the department of Examinations as mentioned thereof. y ou are informed to 
forward inquiries to the department of Examinations mentioning the name of the examination, the full name of the 
candidate, address, Nic number, and the address. if the applicant is a resident outside of colombo, it will be more 
fruitful to send a request letter to the fax number mentioned in the advertisement mentioning a fax number to get a copy 
of the admission via fax to the applicant. Keeping a copy of the completed application, a copy of the receipt obtained on 
payment of the examination fee and a receipt issued in posting the application via registered post will be more useful. 
6.2 the candidate should sit for the examination under the prescribed center under his index number. all the applicants 
should hand over the attested admission cards to the examiner in charge of the examination on the first day of the 
examination. the applicants who fail to do so will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
6.3 applicants should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the examiner in charge of the examination center for all 
subjects of the examination. Any of the following documents will be accepted.
(i) National identity card
(ii) Valid Passport
(iii) Valid Sri Lankan driving License
also, the candidates should expose their identity without covering their faces and ears when they enter the examination 
hall. applicants who refuse to do so will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. further, the applicants should remain 
with their faces and ears uncovered till they leave the examination hall, enabling the examination authorities to identify the 
applicant.
07.  7.1 Issuance of admission to the candidate does not confirm that he/she has fulfilled all the requirements required to sit 
for the examination or qualified for the post.
 7.2 this examination will be held in January 2024 only in colombo. the date and venue of the examination will be 
informed later.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.10.2023
2596
08. applicants will be liable to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examination in relevant 
to conducting  the examination. in case of violation of such rules and regulations, he/ she will be liable to any penalty 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination.
09.  in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil, and English text of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. Matters not included in these regulations if any will be decided at the discretion of the director 
General of customs.
director General of customs
Sri Lanka customs
“Customs House”
No.40, Main Street,
colombo 11. 
10-243
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.