

<!-- page 1 -->

177
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023. 07'14
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 14.07.2023
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th August 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st July  2023
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
G anGani   L iyanaGe ,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
177 B 82473- 353 (07/2023)
 Page Page
 Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 178
wxl 2"341 - 2023  cQ,s ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2023 .07'14
no. 2,341  FRIDAy ,  JuLy 14, 2023
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.- (i) Social Security Contribution Levy (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 30, 2023.
(ii) Special Commodity Levy (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 07, 2023

<!-- page 2 -->

178
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.07'14
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 14.07.2023
miscellaneous notices
 An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The keLAnIy A ASTRoLoGIcAL  ScIence InSTITuTe 
(IncoRPoRATIon)
I Sahan Pradeep Vithana do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53 of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I, propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to incorporate 
the "Kelaniya Astrological Science Institute".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Institute which has the following General objects :-
 (a) To participate in social cultural and economic development of the country ;
 (b) To take measures to protect the discipline and cultural values of the people ;
 (c) to give assistance to develop worships places :
Etc.
 S ahan  P radeeP  V ithana ,
 Member of Parliament.
07-106
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The AL  fALAh founDATIon (IncoRPoRATIon)
I, A. H. M. Fowzie do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53 of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to incorporate 
the "Al Falah Foundation"
The aim of the Bill is to incorporated the said foundation which has the following General objects :-
 1. To promote education in skills Development at all level ;
 2. To establish information technology centers for the advancement of scientific studies ;
 3. To provide self – employment opportunities for unemployed ;
 
    
 A.H. M. Fowzie,
 Member of Parliament.
07-107
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The ekSATh SRI yoWun bAuDhDhA  PADAnAmA
I, udayana Kirindigoda to hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53 of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to Incorporate 
the Eksath Sri yowun Baudhdha Padanama"
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Foundation which has the following objects :-
 (a) Establishing and maintaining educational Institutions and hostels for male and female students ;
 (b) Encouraging and promoting the education of poor children Providing sponsorship of educational Institutions in       
Sri Lanka ;
 (c) Providing necessary assistance to victims of natural calamities ;
etc.
 
U dayana  K irindigoda ,
 Member of Parliament
07-108
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.