

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'02'08
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
9
9
wxl 1"797- 2013 fmnrjdß  08 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'02'08
No. 1,797 – FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY , 08  2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Land Settlement :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Notices under Land Development Ordinance ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 10
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  01st March, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  15th
February, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2013.
N.B.– Part  III   of the Gazette  No. 1,796 of 01.02.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'02'08
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
10
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
My  No. : 4/10/26665.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: CPC/LC/LD/4/1/32/531.
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE   LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Residential Purpose,
Mr. Mallikachchi  Wijewardene Sooriarachchige Sisira Kumara has
requested on  long  term lease a state land containing in extent about
0.0299 Ha. out of  extent marked Lot number 01 as  depicted in  the
Plan kqt$3/2/1/2/1212 and  situated in the Village of  Hawaeliya
which  belongs to the Grama Niladhari Division of  Nuwareliya
coming within the Area of Authority of  Nuwareliya  Divisional
Secretariat in the District of Nuwareliya.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Land  of R. Perera;
On the East by : Hawaeliya moor and road  ;
On the  South by : Hawaeliya moor  ;
On the West by : State land of Government Agent's quarters.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  Years (30)  ( From  15.06.1995
onwards);
(b) The Annual Amount of the Lease. – 4% of the  undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief Valuer for the
year  1995 ;
Penalty .-  Treble 4% of the developed value of the land;
(c) The  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(d) The lessee must not use this land for any purpose other
than for the Residential Purpose ;
(e) This lease must also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary,  and by other institutions;
(f) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(h) Permission will not be given for other sub-leasing or vesting
except for  vesting within the family or sub leasing or
vesting for the  purpose for which the land  was obtained
until  expiry of 05 years from 21.11.2012. The right  to
obtain a grant for this lease bond will be given after the
expiry of 05 years from 21.11.2012;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
(i) House construction activities must be completed within
the time frame specified in alienating lands for house
construction purposes and the failure to do so will be
deemed as a lapse of the long-term lease bond and the land
will have to be  re-vested in the government.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
P
UBUDI PREMADASA,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, "Mihikatha Madura",
Land Secretariat,
Rajamalwaththa Road,
Battaramulla,
16th  January, 2013.
02-292
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.