

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2342$52 – 2023 cQ,s ui 28 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'07'28
No. 2342/52 – FRIDAY, JULY 28, 2023
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 039991 – 20 (07/2023)
My No.: CI/1885. 
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Nestle Lanka PLC,  Kurunegala Factory, No. 440, T. B. Jayah Mawatha, 
Colombo 10 of the one part and the Inter Company Employees Unio n, No. 10, Council Lane, Dehiwala of the other part 
on 05th December 2022 is hereby published in terms of Section 0 6 of the Industrial Disputes Act,Chapter 131, of the 
Legislative Enactment of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour, 
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
12th July, 2023.
Collective Agreement No. 29 of 2022

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 2A
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
Between
NESTLÉ LANKA PLC, KURUNEGALA FACTORY  
And
 INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES’ UNION (ICEU)
Contents
PART 1 - GENERAL
   1 .  Title –. 
 This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the "NESTLÉ L anka PLC, 
 Kurunegala Factory " Collective Agreement for the period 1st D ec. 2022 to 30th Nov. 2025.
   2 .  Date of Operation and Duration
   3 .  Earlier Collective Agreements
   4 .  Persons Covered and Bound
   5 .  General Terms and Conditions
   6 .  Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment or Beneﬁ ts
   7 .  Check Oﬀ 
   8 .  Union Meetings / Duty Leave
   9 .  Trade Union Action
PART II - PROBATION
   10. Probation on Recruitment
PART III - WORKING HOURS
   1 1 .  Working Hours
PART IV - WAGE ADMINISTRATION AND ALLOWANCES
   12. Initial Salary Points

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 3A
   13. Salaries
   14. Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity
   15. Performance Based Payments
   16. Overtime
   17. Weekly Holidays
   18. Statutory Holidays
   19. Festival Advance
   20. Uniforms
   21. Bonus
   22. Shift Allowance
   23. Annual Leave
   24. Casual Leave
PART VI - SICK LEA VE AND MEDICAL BENEFITS
   25. Sick Leave
PART VII - RETIREMENT AND TERMINAL BENEFITS
   26. Age of Retirement
   27. Provident Fund
   28. Employees’ Trust Fund
PART VIII - ATTENDANCE AND CARRYING OUT EMPLOYE R’S INSTRUCTIONS
   29. Attendance
   30. Carrying out Employer’s Instructions
PART IX - SUSPENSION, DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE AND GRIEV ANCE AND DISPUTES PROCEDURE
   31. Suspension
   32. Disciplinary Procedure / Domestic Inquiries
   33. Grievance and Disputes Procedure
APPENDIX 1
APPENDIX II

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 4A
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
Between
NESTLÉ LANKA PLC, KURUNEGALA FACTORY  
And
 THE INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES’ UNION (ICEU)
This Collective Agreement made and entered into on the 5th Dece mber 2022, Two Thousand and Twenty Two between 
NESTLÉ LANKA PLC Factory, located at Pannala, in the district of Kurunegala, having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 440, T. B. 
Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as the “Employer’’)  of the one part and The Inter Company Employees’ 
Union (ICEU), being a trade union duly registered under the Trade Unions’ Ordinance, having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 10, 
Council Lane, Dehiwala (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”) of the other part.
WITNESSETH
   Whereas the Union has shown to the satisfaction of the emplo yer that it represents a majority of the employees.
   Therefore, in consideration of the above premises and the mu tual terms and conditions hereinafter set out, the Union 
and the Employer agree as follows:
PART I- GENERAL
 1 . Title.–  
  This Agreement shall be known and referred to as “ NESTLÉ” Lanka PLC. Kurunegala Factory Collective 
Agreement for the period 1st December 2022 to 30th November 2025”.
 2 . Date of Operation and Duration.–  
  This Agreement shall come into force with eﬀ  ect from 1st December 2022 and shall be in force up to the 30t h day of 
November in the year 2025, but shall continue to remain in force thereafter, until such time as valid notice of termination 
of the agreement is given by either party. No notice will be valid unless given in writing by either party and is of at least 
six (6) calendar months duration. The earliest date at which such notice could validly terminate the contract is 31st May 
2025.
 3 . Earlier Collective Agreements.–  
  The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of any earlier Collective Agreement 
including the provisions of the “The NESTLÉ” Lanka PLC, Kurunegala Factory Collective agreement of 2019”, which 
shall stand terminated with eﬀ ect from the date on which this Agreement takes eﬀ ect.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 5A
 4. Persons Covered and Bound.–  
  This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union, employees who are members of the Union and all the 
employees who are employed on permanent monthly contracts of employment by the employer.
 5 . General Terms and Conditions.–  
  The terms and conditions of this agreement shall as from the date hereafter and during the continuance in force of this 
Agreement be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment between the Employer and the employees covered 
and bound by this Agreement.
 
 6 . Variation Of Terms and Conditions of Employment or Bene ﬁ ts.–  
 6.1 The Employer, the Union and its members, and employees cov ered and bound by this Agreement, agree that, during 
the continuance of this Agreement, that neither party will seek  to vary or add to any of the terms and conditions of 
employment, and beneﬁ ts presently covered and bound by this Agreement and existing beneﬁ ts and privileges not 
speciﬁ ed in the agreement.
 6.2 Any variations or additions required to any of the terms a nd conditions and beneﬁ ts covered and bound by this 
Agreement should only be done by mutual agreement.
 7 . Check oﬀ .–  
 7.1 The Employer agrees to deduct Union subscriptions from the  salaries of Union members and remit such subscriptions 
monthly to the Union provided prior consent in writing is received by the Employer from each member.
 7.2 The above membership deductions under sub-clause 7.1 would  be subject to the Union having a minimum membership 
of 40% of the employees in categories covered by this Collective Agreement.
 8. Union Meetings / Duty Leave.–  
 8.1 The Union or the Branch Union may with the agreement of th e Employer hold Committee meetings and General 
meetings of the union within the Employer’s premises at such places and times as agreed by Management. No person 
who is not in the employment of the Employer shall attend such meetings without the written agreement of the 
Employer.
 8.2  Duty Leave
  Without prejudice to the rights of the Employer, to refuse to  grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the 
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not more than two (2) oﬃ  ce bearers 
of the Union to attend to the following matters in connection w ith the membership in the Company without loss of 
wages for such absence.
 
 8.2.1 To be present at conferences to be held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon 
or the Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.
 8.2.2 To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrator s or Labour Tribunals.
 8.3 The Employer will in his discretion grant leave without re muneration to an employee to attend a Trade Union course 
or seminar or conference, either in Sri Lanka or abroad. However, the employee concerned is entitled to make use of 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 6A
his annual leave or statutory holidays for the purpose.
 9 . Trade Union Action.–  
  The Employer, Union and the employees covered and bound by th is Collective Agreement undertake that they shall not 
during the continuance in force of this Agreement attempt to seek to vary in any matter any of the terms and conditions 
agreed upon herein, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon, and the union and its members shall not resort to any form 
of trade union action in relation to any dispute connected with  or arising out of any matter covered by the collective 
agreement.
  In the event any dispute/s that may arise on a matter not cov ered by this agreement, Parent Union will inform the 
company and provide 7 working days’ notice before engaging in trade union actions.
  In the event trade union decides to resort to action, employe es who are deployed in critical services would be exempted 
from such action on the request of the Company
 
 
PART II - PROBATION
 10. Probation on Recruitment.–  
 10.1 All employees on ﬁ  rst employment to the company shall be on probation for a peri od of six (6)months that may be 
extended by three (3) months if the Employer is not satisﬁ ed with the Progress of such employee.
 10.2 On successful completion of the probationary period, the employee shall be advised in writing by the Employer of 
his conﬁ rmation.
 10.3 During the period of probation or extended probation, eit her party shall have the right to terminate the service 
without notice.
PART III - WORKING HOURS
 1 1 . Working Hours.–  
  The hours of work shall be as stipulated below subject to any  changes which may have to be eﬀ ected as a result of the 
government or policy decision of the Company to meet any exigen cies. However, any changes should be by mutual 
agreement between the two parties.
 11.1 General Oﬃ   ce Staﬀ 
  
  The normal hours of work will be from 8.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. from Monday to Friday each week.
 11.2 All Other Categories of Staﬀ  
  The normal working hours per week shall be forty-four (44) ho urs excluding meal times. Schedules of working hours 
and rosters for shift employees shall be determined by the employer and these times shall be displayed on the notice 
boards.
 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 7A
PART IV - WAGE ADMINISTRATION AND ALLOWANCES
 12. Initial Salary Points.–  
  As from the First day of December, Two Thousand Twenty Two, t he initial salary points applicable to the categories of 
employees covered and bound by this agreement shall be as set out in Appendix I hereof. Revision of initial salary points 
will be decided by the company based on required skills and market value.
 13. Salaries.–  
 
  As from the First day of December, Two Thousand Twenty Two the monthly salaries of the employees shall be revised 
as set out hereunder;
 13.1 With eﬀ  ect from 1st December 2022, the Monthly Basic Salary as at 30th November 2022 drawn by each employee 
will be increased as follows.
Salary Group Percentage Increase
Below Rs. 60,000 15%
Rs. 60,000 & Above 12.5%
 
 
  The Basic Salary as at 30th November 2022 is taken for the ab ove purposes. All employees earning a Monthly Basic 
Salary below Rs.60,000 as at 30th November 2022 will not exceed Rs.67,500 with this increase.
 13.1 (a) Employees will receive a monthly hardship allowance o f Rs.9,000 from 01st December 2022 to 30th November 
2023. It is agreed by both parties that the payment of the said  hardship allowance shall not part of the earnings/
remuneration and it shall not the liability on the Employer for payment of Employee Provident Fund and/or Employee 
Trust Fund and/or Gratuity and/or overtime or any other payment.
 
 13.2 With eﬀ  ect from 01st December 2023, the Monthly Basic Salary of an em ployee as at 30th November 2023 will be 
increased as follows.
Salary Group Percentage Increase
Below Rs.60,000
11% or
Subject to minimum 
increase of Rs.7,000
Rs.60,000 & Above
10% or
Subject to minimum 
increase of Rs.7,000
 
 
  The Basic Salary as at 30thNovember 2023 is taken for the abo ve purposes. All employees earning a Monthly Basic 
Salary below Rs. 60,000 as at 30th November 2023 will not exceed Rs. 67,000 with this increase.
 13.3 With eﬀ  ect from 01st December 2024, the Monthly Basic Salary of an em ployee as at 30th November 2024 will be 
increased as follows. 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 8A
Salary Group Percentage Increase
Below Rs.60,000
 10% or
Subject to minimum 
increase of 7,000
Rs.60,000 & Above
9% or
Subject to minimum 
increase of 7,000
  The Basic Salary as at 30th November 2024 is taken for the ab ove purposes. All employees earning a Monthly Basic 
Salary below Rs.60,000 as at 30tth November 2024 will not exceed Rs.67,000 with this increase.
 13.4 It is agreed and understood that the Monthly Basic Salary  stated above, clauses 13.1,13.2 and 13.3 are all-inclusive 
and shall not attract any additional amounts by way of annual increments on a salary scale or revision on account of 
cost of living based on a consumer price index.
 14. Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity.–  
  It is agreed between The Company & The Union that mechanism o f the Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity 
(NRCLG) payment will be consulted and agreed upon in the next c ollective agreement between the two parties in the 
year 2025. Upon the agreement of above, company will pay lump-sum amount in December 2022, 2023,2024 & 2025 
instead of NRCLG as follows. Therefore, employees are not entit led for any other payment related to NRCLG during 
the current Collective Agreement. Annual lumpsum payment on an ex-gratia basis in lieu of Non- recurring Cost of 
Living Gratuity would be granted on the following basis.
  December 2022 - Rs. 7,500 (Onetime payment during the month o f December 2022) 
  December 2023 - Rs. 7,500 (Onetime payment during the month o f December 2023) 
  December 2024 - Rs. 20,000 (Onetime payment during the month of December 2024) 
  December 2025 -- Rs. 20,000 (Onetime payment during the month  of December 2025)
 a)  A sum of Rs 7500.00 payable in December 2022 for the period from 1st December 2021 to 30th November 2022. 
Th is will be in lieu of Clause 14.1 of Nestle Lanka PLC, Kurunegala Factory of 2019 Agreement.
 b) A sum of Rs 7500.00 payable in December 2023 for the period from 1st December 2022 to 30th November 2023.
 c) A sum of Rs 20,000.00 payable in December 2024 for the period from 1st December 2023 to 30th November 
2024.
 d) A sum of Rs 20,000.00 payable in December 2025 for the period from 1st December 2024 to 30th November 
2025.
  
  No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on these Ex-gratia 
payments. Employees recruited during the year will be subject to Pro rated basis.
 15. Performance Based Payments.–  
  It is agreed by and between parties that there shall be no ﬁ  xed automatic increments applicable to any category of 
employees and whatever payments in the form of lump sum and /or  increases during the period of this collective 
agreement shall be determined by the employer subject to a perf ormance appraisal of each employee. The decision of 
the employer with regard to the grant / non-grant of this payment in the form a lump sum and /or increase shall be ﬁ nal 
and shall not be the subject of an industrial dispute.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 9A
16. Overtime.–  
 16.1 Overtime work shall mean work performed in excess of norm al working hours.
 16.2 If required by the Employer, due to exigency of the servi ces, overtime work will be performed by the employee as 
and when and for such period as the Employer may reasonably req uire. An employee shall have a good reason for 
such refusal to do any overtime work required by the Employer.
 16.3 Work performed in excess of the normal hours shall be rem unerated as per the overtime schedule shown in Appendix 
II of this agreement.
17. Weekly Holidays.– 
  In respect of each week every industrial employee shall be allo wed one (1) weekly holiday and every shop and oﬃ  ce 
employee one and a half (1 1/2) days as weekly holidays, provided that an employee has worked for a period of at least 
twenty-eight (28) hours exclusive of any overtime work for that  week and otherwise the Employer shall be entitled to 
deduct a day’s wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that week.
 17.1 In computing the period of twenty-eight (28) hours referr ed to, the Employer shall include
 17.1.1 Every holiday allowed by the Employer to the employee a s the annual holiday.
 17.1.2 Every Public holiday granted by the Employer.
 17.1.3 Every day’s absence on any grounds approved by the Empl oyer.
18. Statutory Holidays.–  
 18.1 Employee will be granted Statutory Holidays and Poya Holi days as determined by legislation subject to exigency of 
work.
 18.2 If any of the Statutory Holidays fall on a weekly half da y, an additional half-day shall be granted on the working day 
immediately preceding it and if it falls on a weekly holiday, a substitute holiday shall be granted on the working day 
immediately succeeding such weekly full holiday.
19. Festival Advance.– 
  The employer agrees to pay an advance not exceeding the amount stated below, for the respective years, for one festival 
per year of the employee’s choice, if the concerned employee does not have any unauthorized absence days accumulated 
to his/her account for the Previous Calendar year. In the event  an employee has been on unauthorized absence during 
the Previous Calendar year this advance will be reduced to maximum amount of Rs. 25,000/= per employee per festival 
per year.
 2023 - Rs. 50,000
 2024 - Rs. 50,000
 2025 - Rs. 50,000
  This will be recovered ordinarily in ten (10) monthly installme nts or where the employee leaves the Employer’s 
employment, the full balance will be deducted from his balance salary / ﬁ nal payment.
20. Uniforms.– 
 
  The employer provides free uniforms to those employees required to wear such uniforms according to the requirements 
of the job. It is obligatory on the part of the employees to wear such uniforms.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 10A
21. Bonus.– 
 
  The employer agrees to pay a bonus to employees each year for the period of this Agreement on the following basis;
 21.1 Two (2) months’ salary each year.
  For any employee to be entitled to the full beneﬁ  t set out in Clause 21.1 above, such employee should as at the date 
of such payment, have been in employment with the employer duri ng the preceding twelve (12) month period. An 
employee who has not been in employment during the full prededing twelve (12) month period from the date of the 
payment to be granted in terms of Clause 21.1, shall be entitled to a prorated amount having regard to the number of 
completed months he/she was in employment during such preceding twelve (12) month period.
 21.2 In addition to the bonus at 21.1, a half-month’s salary, as bonus will be paid subject to a scheme for non-utilisation of 
7 days of Casual and/or Sick leave. On this basis, for each day unutilised of these 7 days, he will be paid half-month’s 
salary divided by 7. Any No pay leave (authorised or unauthorised) will also be set oﬀ  against the seven days for the 
purpose of this scheme.
 21.3 The payment of bonus under 21.1 and 21.2 may be stopped t otally or partly for disciplinary reasons and unauthorised 
no pay absence.
22. Shift Allowance.– 
  Employees required to work on shift will be paid a shift allo wance on the following basis. Shift allowance will be 
paid, only for the days the employee presents himself for full day’s work.
Shift From To Amount
Morning 06:00 Hrs 14:00 Hrs Rs. 175.00
Afternoon 14:00 Hrs 22:00 Hrs Rs. 200.00
Night 22:00 Hrs 06:00 Hrs Rs. 400.00
 22.1 Additionally with eﬀ  ect from January 2023 an Attendance Incentive of Rs. 4,000.00 per month will be paid to 
employees, who will attend all their rostered night shifts in t he given month. This payment will not be curtailed for 
employees basis the following conditions;
 22.1.1 Should the company changes the night shift roster basis  company requirement and shall not be curtailed for those 
employees who are on long Annual Leave with prior approval and any exception will be granted with 07 days 
prior approval.
 22.1.2 The payment shall not be curtailed for a maximum of one  rostered night shift is missed during a given month 
provided such leave is taken with prior approval under annual leave and/or if any employee applies casual leave 
after informing to the sectional head prior to start the rostered shift.
 22.1.3 The payment shall not be curtailed if any employee want s to do one night shift change for personal request 
within the allocated 02 shift changes per month.
 22.2 Apart from that company will pay half rate of the shift a llowance for employees who has to work 12 hours due to 
company requirement or to cover absenteeism with eﬀ ect from 01st January 2023 considering 4 hours continuation 
of work.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 11A
23. Free Tea/Coﬀ ee.– 
  The company will provide a cup of tea/coﬀ  ee to all employees during the two- tea/coﬀ ee intervals.
PART  V – LEAVE
24. Annual Leave.–
 24.1 Employees are entitled to earned annual leave of a maximu m of fourteen (14) working days per calendar year and 
such leave will be allowed at times convenient to the Employer and the employees subject to the condition that at 
least seven (7) days have to be taken consecutively on the basi s of a roster prepared at the beginning of each leave 
year. However, any changes to this roster due to exigencies of work should be only by mutual agreement.
  Annual leave has to be applied for and approved in advance. H owever, an employee may opt to set oﬀ  absence due to 
ill health in excess of twenty-one (21) day’s sick leave allowed under clause 26 against his Annual leave entitlement.
 24.2 New Employees shall be granted Annual leave during the following year on a proportionate basis as follows:
  Employees joining between,
  1
st January and 31st March - 14 days
  1 st April and 30th June - 10 days 
  1 st July and 30th September - 07 days
  1 st October and 31st December - 04 days
25. Casual Leave.–
 25.1 Employees are entitled to seven (7) Working days casual leave per calendar year. The employee has to notify his immediate 
superior of his intention of taking such casual leave. Such casual leave will normally be granted on application without the 
employee being required to state the reason. When the Employer ﬁ nds it diﬃ  cult to grant, such casual leave requested for, 
such diﬃ  culty shall be notiﬁ ed to the employee as soon as possible. After the application is made and, in such circumstances, 
the employee may be required to state the reason for the leave requested for and the Employer may decide whether it is 
reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual leave.
  When an employee due to unforeseen circumstances is unable to  apply for casual leave in advance, he shall notify 
the Company at the earliest opportunity and state the reason for his absence upon his return to work. The Employer 
will assess the reason for such an application and decide wheth er it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him 
casual leave. The decision of the Employer to grant or not to grant such casual leave is ﬁ nal.
 25.2 Employees shall be entitled to take casual leave on accou nt of private business or other reasonable cause including 
ill health, if that employee’s twenty-one (21) days sick leave allowed under clause 26 has been fully utilised. In such 
instances the Employer shall allow such casual leave with remuneration for a period, or an aggregate of periods, not 
exceeding seven (7) days.
 25.3 Provided however, that not more than two (2) days' casual  leave shall be taken at any one time except upon grounds 
of ill health.
 25.4 Provided further that an employee shall not be entitled t o take casual leave immediately preceding or immediately 
following any period of annual leave.
 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 12A
25.5 A New Employee in his ﬁ rst year of employment including any period of probation shall be entitled to casual leave for 
that year computed on the basis of one day for each completed period of two (2) months’ service.
PART  VI - SICK LEA VE & MEDICAL BENEFITS
 26. Sick Leave.–
 26.1 An employee shall be granted up to a maximum of Twenty on e (21) working days leave on full pay in any one 
calender year in the case of sickness.
 26.2 The Employer may request an employee to support his/ her sickness with a medical certiﬁ cate from a Sri Lanka 
Medical Council Registered Medical Practitioner.
 26.3 The Employer will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported 
by a certiﬁ cate from any Medical Practitioner registered in the Medical Council of Sri Lanka or Ayurvedic Medical 
Council of Sri Lanka.
 26.4 An employee shall inform the Company immediately of such sickness or at least within two (2) days and produce a 
Medical Certiﬁ cate with in three (3) days.
 26.5 An employee who takes less than Twenty one (21) days sick  leave in any one calender year, as allowed above (clause 
26.1) may avail himself of on the balance sick leave by accumulation to a maximum of Ninety (90) days with pay in 
any one-year. The accumulated sick leave shall only be on account of Prolonged illness, Hospitalisation, Infectious 
Diseases or similar circumstances, and such sick leave should be supported by a medical certiﬁ cate from a Sri Lanka 
Medical Council Registered Medical Practitioner/ Consultant Phy sician or Surgeon and should be approved by the 
Company Medical Oﬃ  cer unless this requirement is waived by the employer. The ac cumulated sick leave shall be 
granted at the discretion of the employer.
 26.6 During the period of probation employees are not entitled  to any sick leave. However, after conﬁ rmation in respect 
of the ﬁ rst year of employment, employees will be allowed sick leave d uring that year up to the 31st of December, 
computed on the basis of one and a half (1 1/ 2) days for each month of, employment.
 27. Medical Beneﬁ ts/ Hospitalisation.–
 27.1 The Employer agrees to reimburse medical expenses in term s of the Company Medical Scheme on the following 
basis :
    2023 - Rs. 60,000.00
    2024 - Rs. 60,000.00
    2025- Rs. 60,000.00
  The Employer agrees for the employee to accumulate to a maxim um of Rs. 97,000.00 unutilised reimbursements of 
medical expenses.
 27.2 Medical expenses are reimbursed only for employees and th eir immediate families. Immediate families are deﬁ ned 
as Husband/ Wife and dependent legitimate children of employees . This is on condition that the Husband/ Wife is 
not covered by another Medical Beneﬁ ts Scheme of their employer ; and in such case the Employer do es not allow 
duplication. 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 13A
 27.3 Hospitalisation.– For hospital treatment, employees are g ranted a Medical Insurance Scheme through a reputed 
Insurance Company of Sri Lanka. Both the employee and the Emplo yer pay 50 % of the insurance premium each. 
This scheme covers hospitalization of the employee only.
  Employee may cover the immediate family (Spouse and Children)  at there own discretion under the said Insurance 
Scheme, the employee and the Employer pay 50 % each of the insurance premiums for this purpose.
PART VII -  RETIREMENT  AND  TERMINAL  BENEFITS
  28. Age of Retirement .–  
  The retirement age of Employees shall be governed by the prov isions of the Minimum  Retirement Age of Workers 
Act No. 28 of 2021 or any others prevailing law for that eﬀ ect from time to time. There shall be no obligation on the 
Employer to give the employee any notice of such retirement. In the event of an employee being oﬀ ered employment 
after retirement, such employee shall not be covered by this Agreement.
   On reaching the age of Sixty (60) years an employee shall ipso facto  retire and cease  to be employed by the 
Employer. There shall be no obligation on the Employer  to give  the employee any notice of such retirement. In 
the event of an employee being oﬀ  ered employment after retirement, such employee shall not be c overed by this 
Agreement.   
      29. Provident Fund.– 
  Contributions to Provident Fund will be at the rate of 12% by  the employer and 8% by the employee of the consolidated 
monthly salary as prescribed by legislation.
 30. Employees'  Trust Fund.– 
  The Employer shall contribute to the Employees' Trust Fund at  the rates prescribed  by the legislation.
 PART VIII-ATTENDANCE & CARRYING OUT EMPLOYER'S INSTRUCTIONS
  
31.  Attendance.–
  Unless otherwise speciﬁ  cally instructed by Management, an employee shall present himself/herself for work on every 
day (other than holidays) at the usual starting time for the job and shall remain there available for work throughout the 
normal working hours.
  
32.  Carrying Out Employer's Instructions.–
  
 32.1  If an employee considers any duty, which he/she is requir ed to perform by the Employer, does not fall within the 
scope of his/her employment under the Employer, he/she shall be  entitled to bring this matter to the notice of the 
Employer. If notwithstanding such notiﬁ cation the Employer requires the employee to carry out such in structions, 
then the employee shall be entitled to request the Employer to give him/her such instructions in writing.
  
 32.2 If the Employer gives the employee such instructions in w riting, the employee shall carry out the same but without 
prejudice to the rights of the Union on his/her behalf to dispute such matters with the Employer thereafter as provided 
in this Agreement.
  
 32.3  If the Employer refuses to give such instructions in wri ting, the employee shall be entitled not to carry out such 
instructions and in such event the Employer shall have no right of action against the employee.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 14A
 32.4  If the Employer gives such instructions in writing but t he employee fails to carry out the same, the Employer 
shall be entitled to suspend the employee immediately without pay and to take disciplinary action against him/
her without prejudice to the rights of the employee or the Union on his/her behalf to dispute such suspension 
or such disciplinary action as may be taken against the employee as provided in this Agreement.
  
 32.5  Irregular attendance or un-punctuality of the employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which the employee 
is liable for appropriate disciplinary action.
 PART IX-SUSPENSION, DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE AND GRIEV ANCE & DISPUTES 
PROCEDURE
  
 In case of misconduct, the Employer is entitled to start DISCIPLINARY ACTION, which is detailed hereunder.
  
 DISCIPLINARY ACTION
   
33.  Suspension.–
  
 33.1  An employee may be suspended without pay by the Employer ;
 33.1.1  Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a cha rge or charges of misconduct which are appeared to be 
against the company,
 33.1.2  In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to p roperty or disturbance of the business of the employer,
 33.1.3  In case of fraud, theft, misappropriation or like oﬀ  ence by the employee in the course of his employment, 
 33.1.4 In case of abuse, threat or gross insubordination by th e employee to a member of the Management Staﬀ  of the 
Employer,
 33.1.5  For failing to carry out Employer's instructions in te rms of clauses 31 and 32.
 33.2  At the time of suspension or within twenty-four (24) hou rs the Employer shall provide the employee with a written 
order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension.
  
34.  Disciplinary Procedure/Domestic Inquiries.–
  Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an employee th en: -
 34.1  Irrespective of whether an employee has been suspended u nder clause 33 hereof or not, an employee shall be 
furnished with a show cause notice, which shall set out the par ticulars of the charges of misconduct alleged against 
such employee. Such show cause notice shall give the employee n ot less than Three (3) clear working days within 
which to give the answer.
 34.2  Within Three (3) working days after the day of the show cause notice the employee shall furnish in writing to 
the employer, the answer or explanation to the charges against such employee. The employee may request for an 
extension of time for reply. The Employer may grant such request for such further period of time if deemed necessary 
in the circumstances of the case.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 15A
 34.3  if the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the written answer or explanation of the employee, the  employee shall, if he is 
suspended, be reinstated forthwith and be paid all entitlements due to him for the period of such suspension.
  
 34.4  If the employer is not satisﬁ  ed with the written answer or explanation of the employee to the show cause notice and 
such answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within Seven (7) 
working days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
  
 34.5  After holding such inquiry, the employee shall normally be informed of the ﬁ ndings of each of the charges in the 
show cause notice and the punishment, if any, within thirty (30) working days from the date of the conclusion of the 
inquiry. If the Employer fails to inform the employee, except f or reasons beyond the control of the Employer, the 
employee shall not be liable to be punished in respect of the c harges and no inference adverse to the employee in 
respect of such charges shall be drawn.
  
 34.6  If the employee is under suspension and the Employer aft er inquiry decides that;
  
 34.6.1  The employee is not guilty of the charges, the employe e shall be reinstated immediately and all wages and 
entitlements paid.
 34.6.2  The employee is guilty of one or more charges, the emp loyee shall be informed of the ﬁ ndings and the punishment 
imposed by the Employer.
  
  If the punishment given to the employee is not dismissal, sus pension without pay shall not exceed seven (7) working 
days. If the service of the employee is to be terminated, such termination shall take eﬀ ect from the date of suspension 
of the employee and the employee shall not be paid for the period of suspension.
  
 34.7  If in the opinion of the Employer the nature of the charges is serious and the case has been referred or is to be referred 
to the police or other authorities for investigation, and the Employer is unable to inform the employee of the outcome 
of the inquiry, the employee shall remain under suspension without pay until the investigations are completed and the 
Employer is able to decide on the outcome of the inquiry.
  If the Employer fails to inform the employee of the outcome o f the inquiry within thirty (30) working days due to 
reasons beyond the control of the Employer, the employee shall be paid half his monthly wages for the ﬁ rst thirty 
(30) working days and full wages after thirty (30) days to the time a decision is taken regarding the outcome of 
the inquiry. This will not apply in cases where the inquiry is postponed, or a decision is unable to be taken on the 
outcome of the inquiry for any reasons due to the employee's own seeking.
  
 34.8  Domestic Inquiries
 34.8.1  An employee may request the Employer to allow an 'obse rver' to be present at the inquiry to be held into the 
charges. The 'observer' who shall be another employee, shall be present at the inquiry without loss of wages due 
to absence from the workplace.
 34.8.2  The employee shall inform the Employer the name of the  'observer' one (1) working day before the commencement 
of the inquiry. 
 34.8.3 The 'observer' shall not be entitled to represent the e mployee or otherwise participate in the inquiry.
  
 34.8.4  If an 'observer' obstructs such inquiry, the oﬃ   cer who conducts the inquiry shall be entitled to request the  

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 16A
'observer' to withdraw from the inquiry immediately and the 'observer' shall comply with such request. 
  
 34.8.5 The absence of an 'observer' from whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason shall not change or nullify the 
inquiry, the proceedings or the ﬁ ndings.
  
 34.8.6  The employee may make a written submission to the Empl oyer within one (1) working day on conclusion of 
the inquiry on any special observations he wishes to make in th e manner in which the inquiry was held, or the 
evidence was recorded.
  
 34.8.7  The Union may make written submissions to the Employer  within one (1) working day on conclusion of the 
inquiry regarding the manner in which the inquiry was held or the evidence was recorded.
35.  Grievance & Disputes Procedure.–
  
 35.1  Recognizing the value and importance of full discussion in clearing up misunderstanding and preserving harmonious 
relations, every eﬀ ort shall be made by the Employer and the Union to dispose of any inquiries, complaints, grievances 
or disputes as soon as possible. The following procedure shall be followed in respect of such matter and for any 
interpretation.
  
 35.2  An employee may present his grievance or complaint to hi s immediate supervisor or to his head of department. The 
employee may be accompanied by his Branch Union representative. If the employee is not satisﬁ ed with the answer 
he receives, he may then proceed to clause 35.3.
 35.3.  An employee may present his grievance or complaint to t he factory Human Resources Manager. The employee may 
be accompanied by his Branch Union representative if the employ ee is not satisﬁ ed, he may then proceed to clause 
35.4.
 35.4 The Branch Union may present the grievance or complaint i n writing to the Vice President- Technical. The Vice 
President Technical may consult the parties involved before submitting a reply in writing. If the Branch Union is not 
satisﬁ ed with the written explanation of the Vice President Technical, the Branch union may request for a discussion 
between the vice President-Technical and the Branch Union.
 35.5 If the Branch Union and the employees are not satisﬁ ed with the outcome of the discussion with the Vice President-
Technical, the Branch union may refer it to the Union. The Unio n may make a written submission to the Vice 
President-Technical with a copy to the Vice President Human Resources/Head of Human Resources of the employer 
in Colombo. If the Union is not satisﬁ ed with the written explanation given by the Vice President Technical or Vice 
President Human Resources/Head of Human Resources in Colombo, t he Union may request for a discussion with 
the Vice President-Technical and the Vice President Human Resources/ Head of Human Resources
 35.6 If the Union not satisﬁ  ed with the outcome of the discussion with the Vice President Technical and the Vice President 
Human Resources/ Head of Human Resources, the Union may refor t he matter to the Employer's Federation of 
Ceylon, who will endeavor to bring about an amicable settlement in the matter and, if desired, utilizing the oﬃ  ces of 
the Department of Labour.
 35.7 In the event where the grievance or dispute is not resolved with the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, the matter by 
agreement shall be referred to an arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators jointly selected by the parties under section 3(1) 
(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act for settlement by arbitration if the parties fail to agree on an arbitrator or a panel of 
arbitrators such selection shall be made by the Commissioner of Labour. The decision and award of the arbitrator or 
the panel of arbitrators shall be ﬁ nal and binding on both parties.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 17A
 35.8 In case the Employer or the Union is of the opinion that in view of importance of the dispute there in need for quick 
settlement of such grievance or dispute, either party may decid e to refer the matter to the Employers' Federation of 
Ceylon, in which event the procedure to be followed shall be as laid down in 35.6 and 35.7
APPENDIX I
NESTLE LANKA PLC. - KURUNEGALA FACTORY
INITIAL SALARY POINTS - ALL EMPLOYEES
 GRADE MINIMUM
 Multi Skilled Rs. 35,000.00 p. m.
 Highly Skilled Rs. 32,500.00 p. m.
 Skilled Rs. 30,000.00 p. m.
 Semi-Skilled Rs. 27,500.00 p. m.
APPENDIX II
NESTLE LANKA PLC.-KURUNEGALA FACTORY
OVERTIME PAYMENT SCHEDULE
WORKED ON OFFICE STAFF OTHER INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYEES 
INCLUDING ENGINEERING TRADE 
& DRIVERS
Over Normal Working Hours 1 1/2 times the normal hourly rate. 1 1/2 times the normal hourly rate.
Weekly 1/2 holiday
OR
Short working day for the week
1-4 hrs @1
1/2 times
4 1/4 -9 hrs. @ 2 times
Over 9 hrs. @ 3 times
&
1/2 day's pay for work over 4hrs
Over 4 hrs. @ 1 
1/2 times
Weekly holiday 1-4 hrs. 1 day's salary + 1/2 day's salary
OR
1/2 day's lieu leave.
4 1/4 -9 hrs. 2 day's 
Salary + 1 day's salary
OR 
1 day's lieu leave
Over 9 hrs. 3 days salary + 1 day's 
salary
 OR
I day lieu leave.
1-4 hrs. @ 1 
1/2 times +
1/2 day's salary 
4 1/4-8 1/2 hrs. @ 1 1/2 times + 1 day's Salary.*
Over 8 1/2 hrs. @3 times + 1 day's salary.
• Engineering trade employees for Sunday 
work, one day alternate holiday or 1 day's 
salary.
Statutory Holiday 1-4 hrs. 1 day's salary + 
1/2 day's salary
OR
1/2 day's lieu leave
4 1/4 -9 hrs 2 day's salary
+1 day's salary
 OR
1 day lieu leave
 1-4 hrs. @1 
1/2 times+ 1/2 day's salary.
4 1/4-8 1/2 hrs. @ 1 1/2 times+ 1 day's salary.
Poya day 2 1/2 times the normal Hourly rate. 2 1/2 times the normal Hourly rate.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 18A
The above overtime payments are in addition to the monthly salary.
No overtime should be paid for Lunch / Dinner breaks.
Normal Hourly Rate = Salary / 240
IN WITNESS WHEREOF  THE parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hands at The Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 385 
J3  B62, Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte JASON A V ANCENA, Managing Director of NESTLE LANKA PLC., KUMUDU DIAS, 
Vice president - Finance & Control of NESTLE LANKA PLC., PIERRE-EMMANUEL MORIN, VICE PRESIDENT - 
TECHNICAL of NESTLE LANKA PLC, DONA ENOCA SAMANTHI SIRIMANNE, Vice President - Human Resources, 
NESTLE LANKA PLC., have set their hands for and on behalf of the said Company on t he 5th day of December, TWO 
THOUSAND AND TWENTY TWO.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF  THE parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hands at The Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 
385 J3  B62, Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte Wasantha Samarasinghe, General Secretary, the Inter Company Employees' Union, 
T.M.A.R. Gunasekera, President, Inter Company Employees' Union, NESTLE LANKA PLC. Kurunegala Factory Branch 
Union, W.I.R. Kumara, Secretary, Inter Company Employees' Union,  NESTLE LANKA PLC. Kurunegala Factory Branch 
Union, have set their hands for and on behalf of the said Union  on the 5th day of December, TWO THOUSAND AND 
TWENTY TWO.
EOG 07-0274

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 19A
My No.: CI/487. 
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Bata Shoe Company  of Ceylon Ltd, No. 100, Gen. Sir John Kotalawala 
Road, Ratmalana of the one part and the Wanija Ha Karmika Sewak a Sangamaya, No. 17, Barracks Lane, Colombo 02 of 
the other part on 23rd May 2022 is hereby published in terms of  Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act,Chapter 131, of 
the Legislative Enactment of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour, 
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
20th July, 2023.
Collective Agreement No. 14 of 2022 
 
This Collective Agreement made 23rd May 2022, pursuant to the I ndustrial Disputes Act between THE BATA SHOE 
COMPANY OF CEYLON LIMITED, having its registered oﬃ  ce at No 100, General Sir John Kotalawala Road, Ratmalana 
(hereinafter reﬀ ered to as "the Company") of the ONE PART and the WANIJA HA KARMIKA SEWAKA SANGAMAYA, 
a Trade union duly registered under the provisions of the Trade  Unions Ordinance and having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 
17 Barracks Lane, Colombo 02. (hereinafter referred to as "the Union") of the OTHER PART witnessed and it is hereby 
agreed between the parties as follows:
TITLE
This Agreement shall be known and referred to as
THE BATA MANUAL AND LABOUR WORKFORCE
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT  2021
PART - 1
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL 
THERETO OR CONNECTED THEREWITH

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 20A
 1 .  Employees to be Covered and Bound .–
  This agreement shall cover and bind only members of the union  who are employed in a manual or laboring capacity 
by  the company , but will not be applicable to employees emplo yed in such capacities who are on probation or are 
employed by the day or by the job or by the journey.
 2 .  Date of Operation and Duration .–
  This Agreement shall be eﬀ  ective as from the ﬁ rst day of January 2021 until 31st December 2023.
 
3.  Authorised Version .–
  In the event of any dispute regarding the interpretation of this Agreement as between the English and Sinhala versions, 
the English version shall prevail.
 4.  Matters Covered and Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment or Beneﬁ ts.–
 a. This Agreement shall be in full and ﬁ  nal settlement of all matters covered herein and in the event of any conﬂ ict or 
inconsistency between matters provide for in this Agreement and  any pre-existing terms of practices, the terms of 
this Agreement shall prevail.
 b. The Union and its members shall not, during the continuance  in force of this Agreement, seek to vary, alter or add 
to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment or bene ﬁ ts presently applicable to or enjoyed by any of 
the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such  terms and conditions are provided for in this 
Agreement or otherwise, other than by mutual Agreement.
 c. The Company agrees that during the continuance in force of this Agreement it shall not vary, alter or withdraw all or 
any of the beneﬁ ts presently enjoyed by the employees covered and bound by thi s Agreement other than by mutual 
agreement, except to the extent that such beneﬁ ts have been modiﬁ ed by the terms of this Agreement.
 d. Any dispute or diﬀ  erence under the provisions of sub-clause (b) or (c) but exclu ding a dispute arising from the 
termination of the services of an employee may be resolved by v oluntary arbitration only if both parties to this 
Agreement agree to submit such dispute or diﬀ erence for settlement by voluntary arbitration. In the event o f either 
party not agreeing to voluntary arbitration no application shall be made by either party to have any dispute referred 
for settlement under Section 4(1) or (2) of the Industrial Disp utes Act 1950 (as amended) in relation to any matter 
referred to in sub-clause (b) and (c) except a dispute arising from the termination of the service of any employee.
 5.  Standing Orders .–
  On any matter not expressly provided in this Agreement, the e mployee shall be bound by the Standing Orders and Rules 
of the Company in force from time to time and such Standing Ord ers and Rules shall be deemed to form a part and 
partial of the contracts of employment of each employee.
 6 .  Wages .–
 (i) 
 a. The Company will continue to pay by results according to th e prevailing system of standard production wage 
basis which contains incentives for employees and as from the ﬁ  rst day of January 2021 shall pay in terms of 
Schedule A hereto.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 21A
 b.  All standard production wages are determined by the Compan y using scientiﬁ c work study methods and it is 
agreed that all such ﬁ gures and the Company standard production wages rates shall be  treated at all times as 
Company’s conﬁ dential information which shall not be divulged to outsiders.
 
 c. As all standard production wages have been determined with reference to the present methods of work, present 
machinery and equipment, the same may be changed by the Company  when there is a change in the content of 
work, in machinery, material used, in equipment, in work layout, supply of work handled or other circumstances 
under which the employee can deliver the required output.
 d. When an employee is put on a new operation, the employee aﬀ  ected will be guaranteed his past average earnings 
for the next four weeks during which period the employee is req uired to achieve the standard output as per 
training program. The past average earnings mean : earnings for  the last four weeks immediately preceding, 
excluding overtime and other extra payments. If the earnings are below his minimum basic wage he will be paid 
between the Minimum and the Maximum as an average.
 e. Employees who as at the date of this Agreement are on weekl y ﬁ xed wage Scales, shall as from the ﬁ rst day of 
January 2021 be paid on the wages scales set out in schedule B hereto.
 f. Employees who as at the date of this Agreement are on month ly ﬁ xed wage scales shall as from the ﬁ rst day of 
January 2021 be paid on the wages scales set out in schedule C hereto. Employees in the Engineering Grade who 
as at the date of this Agreement are on monthly ﬁ xed wage scales shall as from the ﬁ rst day of January 2021 be 
paid on the wage scales set out in Schedule D hereto with the relevant conditions laid in the Schedule DD.
 g. If as a result of power failure, machine breakdown or absen teeism which is not the direct or indirect result of 
the action or conduct of any employee or an employee on standar d production wages or otherwise is unable to 
achieve his basic minimum wage, his earnings will be made up to his daily minimum basic wage. The Company 
shall guarantee basic minimum wage, except in the event of trade union action, such as strikes or go-slow, refusal 
to work, disrupting work whether such action is on written noti ﬁ cation or otherwise and the employees in such 
situations will only be entitled to a basic minimum wage calculated up to the actual number of hours they have 
worked. 
 h. Every employee is expected to achieve the Standard Output i n terms of the Standard Production Minutes System 
which is part and partial of the contract of employment.
 (ii)
 a. To correct any incorrect standard production minutes of any  operation, prevailing at present, the Company will 
use work study methods to establish Standard Production Minutes . In the event of the established Standard 
Production Minutes cannot be achieved with the combined or single operations, with maximum production done 
in that department so far, the maximum production done in that department or other department for same or 
similar operations will be considered to establish standard production minutes.
 b. All employees, if they so wish will be allowed to earn up t o 120% standard production wage basic.
 c. In the event of an employee earning over 120% of standard p roduction wage basis he/she shall not be entitled 
to any payment for production over the 120% limit and the standard production minutes of the operation will be 
identiﬁ ed by the Company to be wrongly established. The Company shall re-study such operations with the view 
to establishing and implementing correct standard production minutes.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 22A
 d. The above shall constitute the usual production process in the Company and not be subject to any negotiation or 
review in future.
 e. It is agreed between parties that with the wages and produc tion process being amended as aforesaid the red circle 
rates will be eliminated.
 (iii) Shift Allowance
 a. The shift allowance payable to employees who work on shifts  shall be as follows according to their earnings for 
the shifts.
  1 st Year 20%
  2 nd Year 20%
  3 rd year 22.50%
 b. Earnings for this purpose shall mean an employee’s earnings in terms of Schedules A, B, C and D hereof as the 
case may be.
 c. The Company will be provided a cup of Nestomalt and Breakfast to ﬁ rst shift (6.00 am to 2.00 pm) before they 
commence work.
7.  Non-Recurring Cost of living Gratuity .–
 a. Each employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be paid a Non- Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity in 
April each year in respect of the Preceding twelve months (1st April to 31st March hereinafter referred to as the 
“Qualifying period”) commencing from April ascertained in accordance with the under-noted formula:
 The Formula
  If the average of Colombo Consumer Price index ﬁ  gure for the qualifying period exceeds 2000.0 points in the 
ﬁ rst year, second year and third year in the case of employees paid in accordance with Schedule ‘A’ and 2100.0 
points in the ﬁ rst year, second year and the third year in the case of employees paid in accordance with schedules 
B, C & D a sum computed at Rupees 2/- (Two) for each completed point (i.e. 1.0).
 b. The Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity shall also be pay able to an employee who is in employment only 
during part of the qualifying period either by virtue of the fa ct that he joins the Company’s services during the 
qualifying period or is not in the Company’s services when the Non -Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity becomes 
payable in April of any year. In the case of such employees their Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity shall be 
calculated on the basis of Rupees Two (Rs. 2/-) for each completed point by which the average exceeds the base 
index ﬁ gure 2000.0 ﬁ rst year second year and third year or 2100.0 ﬁ rst year, second year, and third year during 
the months in which such employees were in employment.
 
 c. Provided that in the event the Government of Sri Lanka disc ontinuing the publication CCPI ﬁ  gures ,parties 
agreed to meet to discuss the basis on which this payment could be continued.
8.  Casual Leave .–  
 a. An employee covered by this Agreement shall, in respect of each year of Employment, during which he has been 
continuously in employment, will be entitled to take on account  of private business or other reasonable cause, 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 23A
including ill health if the employee entitlement of sick leave has been fully utilized, seven day’s casual leave 
with remuneration.
 b. Not more than two day’s casual leave shall be taken on cons ecutive days at any time except where such leave 
is on the grounds of ill health. Any casual leave availed of on  the ground of ill health shall be subject to the 
provisions relating to sick leave in this Agreement.
 c. No employee shall be entitled to casual leave immediately p receding or immediately following any period of 
annual leave.
 d. In respect of any employees ﬁ  rst year of employment, excluding any period of probation, his casual leave shall 
be computed on the basis of one day for each completed period of two months service.
 e. Casual Leave will normally be granted on written applicatio n without the employee being required to state 
the reason for the application. Where the Company ﬁ nds it diﬃ  cult to grant an application for casual leave its 
diﬃ  culty shall be notiﬁ ed to the employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the 
employee may be required to state the reason for the application in order that the Company may decide whether 
it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual Leave.
 f. An employee shall make his written application for casual l eave 24 hours in advance else his absence will be 
unauthorized and will be without pay.
9.  Sick Leave .–
 a. In any one year an employee shall be entitled to sick leave  with remuneration not exceeding 21 days provided 
that:
 i. his illness supported by a certiﬁ  cate from a registered medical practitioner and the leave is recommended by 
the Company Doctor; and
 ii.  The employee has been in the Company’s service for not le ss than six months immediately preceding such 
leave.
 b. In the ﬁ  rst year of employment an employee’s sick leave entitlement sh all be computed on the basis of two 
working days for each completed period of two months service.
 c. An employee substituting for another employee who is on mat ernity leave shall whenever necessary be re-
assigned to the work he/she was performing before the assignmen t or work in a similar grade job on the return 
of the employee from maternity leave. On re-assignment of his/h er previous job, the employee will be paid the 
standard production wage rates earned.
 d. An employee will be permitted to avail himself of Sick Leav e unsupported by a Medical Certiﬁ cate subject to 
the following provisions:
 i.  The period in respect of which such unsupported Sick leave  will be allowed shall not exceed one day.
 ii.  The number of occasions on which such unsupported Sick Le ave shall be allowed in any one year shall not 
exceed eight occasions.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 24A
 iii.  Where an employee has on eight occasions in an year avai led himself/herself of Sick Leave unsupported by 
a Medical Certiﬁ cate, any further Sick Leave in that year shall be covered with a Medical Certiﬁ cate and he 
shall inform the company of his inability to report for work before the end of his shift (other than third shift 
employee who shall inform of his inability to report for work before the end of the general shift immediately 
following) if this procedure is not followed either in respect the submission of a valid Medical Certiﬁ cate or 
informing the Company as aforementioned, his absence will be unauthorized and will be without pay.
10.  Annual Leave.–
 a. An employee will be entitled to annual leave in terms of th e decisions of the Wages Board for the Tanning, 
Footwear and Leather Goods Manufacturing Trade subject to the sub-clause (b) hereunder.
 b. The Company shall be entitled to calendar 10 days of the sa id annual leave on consecutive working days during 
any year depending on the need to do so.
 c. The balance annual leave, if any, may be availed of by an e mployee at times convenient to both the employee and 
the Company by giving written 6 application for leave 24 hours in advance else his absence will be unauthorized 
and will be without pay.
11.  Holidays .–
 a. The holiday with remuneration allowed each year shall be th ose listed in the Company’s Standing Orders 
and Rules and/or prescribed by the Wages Board decision for the  Tanning, Footwear and Leather Goods 
Manufacturing Trade.
 b. The Company will be entitled to call upon an employee to wo rk on any such Holiday and the employee shall be 
liable to perform such work unless he/she furnished the Company with a reasonable excuse personal to him.
12.  Provident Fund .–
 a. The Company shall contribute twelve percent (12%) and each employee eight percent (8%) of an employee’s 
earnings each week or month, as the case may be, to the Provident Fund.
 b. Earnings” for this purpose shall mean only the earnings of an employee in terms of Schedule A, B, C, D and E 
hereto.
13.  Bonus .–
 a. The Company will pay to each employee a Bonus equivalent to  one and Half months (1 1/2) (l/12th of the Gross 
Earnings)
 b. In computing the Bonus Twelve Months period will be:
 i. In case of weekly paid employees the 52 week ending with we ek 44 of the year in which the Bonus is paid.
 ii  In the case of monthly paid employees twelve months ending  on 31st October of the year in which the Bonus 
is paid.
 iii.  For above calculation l/12th of Provident Fund deductibl e income should be taken (excluding) overtime non-
recurring cost of living gratuity, Night Shift Allowance and other extra payments.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 25A
 iv.  The Union agrees that they shall not raise a dispute on t he payment of any Bonus which is stated in the 
Collective Agreement.
 c. The Gross earnings, excluding overtime, Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity and other extra payment for the 
52 weeks period in the case of standard production wage earners will be computed thus:
  All earnings for the bonus year less overtime, Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity, Shift Allowance and other 
extra payments will be aggregated and divided by the total of t he number of days in which the employee had 
actually worked and the number of days on which he had been on paid leave during the. bonus year. The portion 
will be a day’s average earnings of the employee. Provided that if a day’s average earnings of an employee is less 
than 1/16th of the Minimum Basic Wage, then the Minimum Basic Wage will he deemed to be a day’s Average 
earnings of that employee for the purpose of computing bonus. T he gross earnings for the bonus year will be a 
day’s average earnings multiplied by the total number of days on which the employee had actually worked plus 
the number of days on which he had been on paid leave during the bonus year.
 d. Retiring Employees
  it is Agreed to pay proportionate bonus, only for the retirin g employee, if any employee served at least 9 months 
on her/his retirement Year. ( Weekly paid employee - week 31 and Monthly paid employee - 31
st July)
14.   Grievance Procedure.–
 a. Any employee is free to make representations to the Managem ent in respect of an individual grievance, dispute 
or other matter and the procedure for settling the same is as follows:
 i. In the ﬁ  rst instance, the matter shall be discussed with the department Supervisor.
 ii. If the matter is not settled by the departmental Superviso r, the employee may then, together with a Branch 
Union Committee Member in the employee  department, discuss the matter with the Group Supervisor who 
may, if he thinks it desirable, discuss the matter or refer sam e to the Factory Superintendent or Assistant 
Manager.
 iii. In the event if the matter not being satisfactorily settl ed at stage (ii), the employee may together with a Branch 
Union representative discuss the matter with the Factory Manager.
 iv. In the event if the matter not being satisfactorily settle d at stage (iii), the matter may be submitted in writing 
to the Human Resources Manager.
 v. In the event if the matter not being satisfactorily settled  at stage (iv) the Branch Union may make an appeal 
to the Managing Director or his deputy in his absence.
 vi. If no settlement is reached and the dispute related to any  terms or Condition of employment or beneﬁ t, Clause 
4 hereof shall apply.
 b. The Branch Union is free to make representations to the Man agement in respect of any grievance or other matter 
aﬀ ecting the employees covered and bound by this Agreement generally and the procedure for settling the same 
shall be as follows:
 i. The Branch Union shall submit the matter in writing to the Human Resources Manager for settlement.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 26A
 ii. In the event of the matter not being satisfactorily settle d at stage (I) above, the Branch Union may make an 
appeal to the Managing Director.
 iii. In the event of there being no satisfactory settlement af ter following (ii) above, the Union may make 
representations to the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon and thereafter to the Commissioner of Labour.
 iv. If notwithstanding of the above no settlement is reached a nd the dispute related to any term or condition of 
employment or beneﬁ t, whether covered by this Agreement or otherwise, Clause 4 hereof shall apply.
15.   Warnings and Communications.–
 a. If in the opinion of the Company an oﬀ  ence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the employee by 
a letter.
 b. An employee who refuses to accept receipt of a written comm unication by the Company shall be liable to 
disciplinary action.
16.   Purchase of Leave.–
 a. In respect of 2021 and subsequent years the Company will pa y each employee a sum of money representing one 
days basic minimum wage for each day of sick and casual leave n ot availed of by an employee, out of his sick 
and casual leave entitlement in respect of that year.
 b. This payment in respect of any particular year will be made  on or before 31st January of the succeeding year.
 c. Notwithstanding the provisions of clause 9 hereof, where an  employee has taken 14 days of his 21 days of Sick 
Leave, 25% of his Annual Bonus will be paid.
  In according to above (16-c) -
  If an employee has additional 7 days leave made up of both Si ck and Casual totaling up to 14 days, will be paid 
50% of his Annual Bonus.
17.   Retirement.–
 a. On reaching the age of 60 years males and females employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed 
and there shall be no obligation on the employer to give the employee any notice of retirement.
 b. For the purpose of determining the retirement age of an emp loyee the date of birth as set out in the employee’s 
Birth Certiﬁ cate shall apply and, in its absence, the age shown in the National Identity Card. In the event of both 
the Birth Certiﬁ cate and National Identity Card not being available the age as  declared by the employee to the 
Company is the Oﬃ  cial application form for employment shall determine the employee’s age for the purpose of 
retirement.
 c. The Company may in its sole and absolute discretion oﬀ  er temporary employment to an employee after his 
retirement on terms and conditions mutually agreed upon between the Company and the employee.
18.  Suspension .–
 a. An employee may be suspended without pay by the Company.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 27A
 i. Pending an inquiry to be held by the Company on a charge or  charges of Misconduct which warrants dismissal.
 ii. In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the p roperty or disturbance of the business of the 
Company.
 iii.  As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceedin g seven (7) working days after due inquiry.
 b. At the time of suspension under sub-clause (a) (I) hereof o r within twenty four (24) hours thereof, the Company 
shall provide the employee with a written order or letter of suspension specifying the reason for such suspension, 
and thereafter hold an inquiry into the charge or charges against him, if the Management considers it necessary 
to establish the guilt or innocence of the accused.
 c. If the Company after such inquiry makes order that:
 i.  The employee shall not be dismissed, then the employee sha ll resume work forthwith and shall, subject to 
sub-clause (a) (iii) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due during the period of suspension irrespective 
of any other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed  by the Company on the ﬁ ndings as to the 
charge or charges against the employee.
 ii. The employee shall be dismissed, the employee’s dismissal shall take eﬀ ect as from the date of his suspension 
and accordingly he shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.
 iii. In view of the seriousness involved in the nature of the charge or charges against the employee, the Company 
is unable to make a ﬁ nal order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other 
authorities for further investigations or inquiries and the mat ter is therefore referred to the Police or other 
authorities or in view of the seriousness involved in the natur e of the charge or charges preferred against 
the employee, the matter has been previously referred to the Po lice or other authorities for investigations or 
inquiries and that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be awaited.
  then in either of such circumstances the employee shall be su spended without pay.
 d. If in any case where an employee is suspended as provided f or herein the Company fails to make an order under 
paragraph (I) to (iii) of the preceding sub-clause for any reas on other than that of the employees own seeking 
within thirty (30) working days from the date of the employees suspension, the employee shall be entitled to half 
his normal wages for the period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full wages for the 
period of suspension in excess of thirty (30) days up to the da te on which the Company makes an order under 
paragraph (I) to (iii) of the preceding sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
 e. Suspension under sub-clause (a) (ii) hereof may continue fo r so long as the employees continuance in employment 
with or is likely to be undesirable to be prejudicial to the pr oper investigation of the charges or the employer 
carrying on his business.
19. Non Union Activites.– 
  The Union undertakes not to interfere in any of the following  matters :
 a. Social functions organized by the Company
 b. Welfare services organized or sponsored by the Company
 c. Other activities which are directly or indirectly sponsored  by the Company
 d. Matters that do not concern in membership

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 28A
20. Trade Union Action.–
  The Union and the employees covered and bound by the agreemen t agree that during the continuance of this Agreement 
or any renewal thereof, they shall not engage in any strike, go  slow, boycott, demonstration or any other form of trade 
union or collective action in respect of any industrial dispute between the Company and the employees or the Company 
and the Union whether or not such dispute is related to this Collective Agreement.
 21. Overtime.–
  If required by the Company , an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Company. 
Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is personal to the employee and 
an acceptable to the Company shall constitute misconduct for which the employee shall be liable to disciplinary action.
22. Employees Transfers.–
 
 a. The provisions of this clause shall apply only in the event  of a transfer within a department or to another department 
arising in consequence of a reduction in production or the elim ination of a particular operation thus resulting in 
excess staﬀ  on that particular operation.
 b. The term “ transfer” used herein shall have the meaning ass igned to it in “a” above.
 c. Where the proposed transfer is for a period less than three  months, the Company will ﬁ rst attempt to provide the 
employee with work in the same department and his production earnings will be paid.
 d. If the Company cannot ﬁ  nd work for him in the same department on another operation he has performed earlier, the 
most junior Operator will be transferred to another department where his production earnings will be paid.
 e. If on a transfer within or outside his department he does n ot achieve his minimum basic wage, he will nevertheless 
be paid his minimum basic wages except in the event of a deliberate “go slow”.
 f. In the event of a transfer, the employee’s name, new operat ion and the period of his transfer must be submitted to the 
Personnel department using the relevant form for each employee.
 g. In the event of a permanent transfer of an employee from on e operation to another operation the provisions of clause 
6(d) of the Collective Agreement will apply.
 h. In eﬀ  ecting Transfers from one department to another.
 i. The employee who is the most junior on the particular opera tion will be transferred irrespective of his service 
in the Company.
 ii. Notwithstanding (a) above where an employee to be transfer red on the guidelines set out in (a) above has a 
minimum of twenty-ﬁ ve years’ service in the same department, though not on the sa me job, he will not be 
transferred and will be oﬀ ered anyone of the jobs he performed previously and the most junior person will be 
transferred instead.
 iii Where due to the elimination of an operation an employee w ith a minimum of twenty ﬁ ve years of service 
in the same department is to be transferred, he will be given an alternative operation in the same department 
after a training program of four weeks, with an average payment  If after the training program he is found 
unsuitable, he will be transferred elsewhere he can be provided with work.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 29A
23. Leave on Occasion of Death of Employee or Family Member.–
 a. In the event of the death of an employee in service, Compan y will donate LKR 115,000/-.
 b. In the event of the death of a conﬁ  rmed employee in service, leave will be granted in the followi ng manner for 
attendance at the funeral of such deceased employee.
 i. Provided the distance to the place of the funeral is such that attendance at the funeral will require less than four 
hours,  leave from work for a period not less than four hours will be granted to:
 a. Employee in the general shift in the department in which th e deceased employee worked.
 b. An employee from each department
 c. Three branch union oﬃ   cials, and
 d. An oﬃ   cer from Death Relief Society
  To attend such funeral without loss of pay provided however t hat if employees other than those speciﬁ cally identiﬁ ed 
above also attend the funeral during working hours such employees shall cover up for the work time lost on this account 
on another day within a week without any claim for additional payment by way of overtime or otherwise.
 ii. In the event of the place of the funeral being such that a  period in excess of four hours is required for attendance, 
the Company will grant not less than nine hours of leave subject to the same conditions as given in (i) above.
 iii. The question of distance of the place of a funeral will b e decided by mutual Agreement between the Management 
and the Branch Union.
 c. Transport Facility - Company agrees to grant LKR 10,000/- a s transport facility.
 d. In the event of a death of a family member of a conﬁ rmed employee, the employee of the department in which such 
employee is employed will be granted leave for a period depending on the distance of the place of the funeral but in 
any event not exceeding four hours which leave, such employees shall cover up by working in lieu without payment 
of overtime, on another day within a period of one week.
 e. For the purpose of (d) above, family member shall mean spou se, child, farther, mother, mother-in-law, farther-in-law 
and unmarried brothers and sisters under eighteen years of age.
24. Emploees' Wedding.–
  1/2 day leave will be granted to the respective department an d employees. Such employee shall cover up for the work 
time loss on this account on any Saturday within two weeks without any claim for additional payment by way of over-
time or otherwise.
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES & CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE COMPANY TO THE UNION
25. Union Meetings .–
 1. The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Bra nch Union.
 a.  In respect of each meeting which the Branch Union desired to hold at the Company’s premises an application for 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 30A
permission shall be previously made to the Company at least 24 hours prior to the date of the meeting.
 b.  If the Company decides to grant permission, the Company sh all be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of 
the undernoted conditions.
 i. That no person other than an employee of the Company shall be present at a meeting of the Branch Union.
 ii. On occasions when parent union oﬃ   cials are granted written permission to attend a branch union  meeting, 
the Branch Union shall obtain the written approval of the Company, for such oﬃ  cial or oﬃ  cials who is or are 
to attend the meeting and shall furnish his name or names, addr ess or addresses and the oﬃ  cial capacity or 
capacities or such person or persons in the parent union.
 iii. On occasions, such as the annual general meeting of the B ranch Union oﬃ  ce bearers of the parent union may 
with previous approval of the Company shall attend.
 iv. Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Branch Unio n shall be concluded or adjourned.
 c.  It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its oﬃ   ce bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to 
hold a meeting of the branch union is granted are duly complied with.
 d.  It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its oﬃ   ce bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of 
or in connection with a meeting of the Branch Union to the Company’s property or any person at the Company’s 
premises and the Union shall indemnify the Company and keep the  Company indemniﬁ ed against any such 
damage.
 2.  The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Ex ecutive Committee of the Union.
 a.  Without prejudice to the right of the Company to refuse to  grant permission if in its discretion the exigencies of 
the circumstances warrants permission or if in its discretion the exigencies of the circumstances warrants refusal, 
the Company will generally grant permission to three members of  the Executive Committee, a day’s leave for 
not more than one occasion, in a month without loss of salary for such absence if an application for permission 
to attend is made at least forty eight hours before the time ap pointed for holding the meeting of the executive 
committee.
 b.  For the purpose of paragraph (a) above, the Union shall fo rthwith furnish the Company with a list of the 
employees covered and bound by the Agreement who are members of  the Executive Committee and keep the 
Company informed of all changes therein which may be made from time to time. Subject to the amendments 
contained in this Agreement, the order of provisions contained in the original Collective Agreement shall 
continue to be in force.
26.  Duty Leave.–
 
  Without prejudice to the right of the Company to refuse to gran t permission if in its discretion the exigencies of the 
circumstances warrant refusal, the Company will generally grant  permission for not more than three oﬃ  ce bearers of 
the Branch Union.
 a.  To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the C ompany or the Employees Federation of Ceylon or the 
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Branch Union and the Company, or
 b.  To attend before Industrial Courts or Arbitrators at the s ole discretion of the Company.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 31A
  In respect of such absence oﬃ  ce bearers shall receive their minimum basic wage.
27. Domestic Inquiries.– 
 i.  An employee in respect of whom a domestic inquiry is held in respect of charges framed against him shall be 
entitled to request that a member of the Union be present as an observer at the domestic inquiry.
 ii. The employee shall, at least 48 hours before the time appo inted for the commencement of the inquiry, submit 
to the Company the name of such observer, and the Company shall  allow an observer unless in the opinion 
of the Company the exigencies of business warrant refusal.
 iii. An observer may answer any questions which the person who  conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an 
observer shall not be entitled to represent the employee or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
 iv. The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to re quire an observer who obstructs such inquiry in any 
manner whatsoever to withdraw there from an observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
 v. The absence of an observer from the whole or any part of an  inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not 
vitiate such inquiry, nor the proceedings thereat, nor the ﬁ ndings pursuant thereto.
28. Check Oﬀ .–
 i. During the continuance in force of this Collective Agreemen t and provided the Union has not less than 40 percent 
membership among the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, the Company shall on the written request 
of an employee deduct every month from the wages due to such employees the current Union dues as speciﬁ ed by the 
employees to be payable by the employee to the Union and remit the amount so deducted to the Union in accordance 
with the procedure and upon the subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
 ii. Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his earnings shall sign a statement to that eﬀ ect in 
the form set out in form no. 1 in Schedule F hereto and hereinafter referred to as “an authorization”.
 iii. Every employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement for check-oﬀ  at any time by signing a statement to that 
eﬀ ect in the form set out in form No. 2. In Schedule F hereto and hereinafter referred to as “a revocation”.
 iv. As far as practicable deductions under an authorization sh all commence from the wages due immediately after the 
date of receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
 v. As far as practicable deductions under an authorization sha ll cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such 
authorization provided however
 a.  That the Company shall not be liable in any manner whatsoe ver to the Union of the employee concerned for 
failure to comply with sub-clause (iv) or (v).
 b.  That  in  its  discretion the Company shall be entitled no t to make deductions by way of check-oﬀ  for any period 
in which the deductions by way of check-oﬀ   together with all other deductions from the employee’s wages 
exceed the deductions permitted by law.
 vi. The Company shall not later than the ﬁ  fteenth day of the month succeeding the month in which deductions have been 
made remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the employ ees to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance 
with the tenor of such authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed “account payee”.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 32A
 vii. The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the  employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope 
addressed to the Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
 viii. The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge re ceipt of the cheque.
 ix. The Company shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than 
the Union dues actually deducted.
 29.  Breaches of the Agreement by the Union And/Or its members.–
  If in the opinion of the Employees Federation of Ceylon the U nion or its members have committed a breach of this Agree-
ment then in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted by the Com-
pany in Part II of the Agreement and the same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Company's right to restore 
such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Company and the Employer's Federation of Ceylon 
may decide.
 30. Cessation of Facilities .–
  The facilities and concessions in Part II of this Agreement s hall ipso facto cease on the termination of this Agreement.
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITION OF CERTAIN WORDS
In part I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject of context the following words shall have the meaning set 
opposite to them.
 WORDS MEANING
 Branch Union the Branch Union of the Wanija Ha Karmika Sewaka Sangamaya in the 
Company.
 Dispute Shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute i n the Industrial 
Disputes Act (1950) as amended or in any act enacted by the National 
State Assembly to replace the Industrial Disputes Act subject t o the 
provision that it shall not include a dispute involving the var iation of 
this Collective Agreement or one which is in breach of it.
 Union the Wanija Ha Karmika Sewaka Sangamaya.
 Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement. Word s importing 
the masculine gender shall include the feminine. Words importing the 
singular number shall include the plural and vice Versa.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 33A
 1. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at 
Colombo, CLIVE RODRIGO Country Manager/ Managing Director of Bata Shoe 
Company of Ceylon Limited, THALAKOTUNAGE CHAMILA PADMINIE DE 
SILV A, Human Resources Manager of Bata Shoe Company of Ceylon Limited, 
have set their hands for and on behalf of the said Company on the 23rd Day of May 
of Two Thousand and Twenty Two.
 2. PRA VEEN WIJESINGHE, Finance Manager of Bata Shoe Company of  
Ceylon Limited witness to the signature of the said CLIVE RODRI GO and 
THALAKOTUNAGE CHAMILA PADMINI DE SILV A
 3. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand 
at Colombo, PRASAD DE SILV A, Assistant Director General Of Empl oyers' 
Federation Of Ceylon, his hand for and on behalf of the said Company, on the 23rd 
day of May Two Thousand and Twenty Two.
 4. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at 
Colombo, SURANJAYA AMARSINGHE, Secretary, Wanija Ha Karmika Sewaka 
Sangamaya, has set his hand for and on behalf of the said Union, on the 23rd day 
of May of Two Thousand and Twenty Two.
 5. Witness to the signature of the said SURANJAYA AMARASINGHE.
 6. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at 
Colombo, RANASINGHE ARACHCHIGE VINIL, President, Bata Branch of the 
Wanija Ha Karmika Sewaka Sangamaya, W P J N S FERNANDO Secretar y of 
Bata Branch of the Wanija Ha Karmika Sewaka Sangamaya, have set their hands 
for an on behalf of the said Union on the 23rd day of May of Two Thousand and 
Twenty Two.
 7. Witness to the signature of the said RANASINGHE ARCHCHIGE V INIL. and 
W P J N S FERNANDO
SCHEDULE-A
WEEKLY PIECE RATED SCALE ( NRCOLG INDEX - 2000 POINTS )
1 ST YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2021.01.01 TO 2021-12-31
GRADES 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08
MBW 6,558.11 6,455.72 6,355.44 6,256.81 6,160.14 6,065.27 5,971.93 5,88 0.03
SPWB 8,722.29 8,586.10 8,452.74 8,321.56 8,192.98 8,066.81 7,942.67 7,8 20.44
WEEKLY PIECE RATED SCALE ( NRCOLG INDEX - 2000 POINTS )
2 ND YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2022.01.01 TO 2022-12-31
GRADES 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08
MBW 7,082.76 6,972.18 6,863.88 6,757.35 6,652.95 6,550.49 6,449.69 6,35 0.43
SPWB 9,420.07 9,272.99 9,128.96 8,987.28 8,848.42 8,712.15 8,578.09 8,4 46.08

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 34A
WEEKLY PIECE RATED SCALE (NRCOLG INDEX - 2000 POINTS )
3 RD YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2023.01.01 TO 2023.12.31
GRADES 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08
MBW 7,649.38 7,529.95 7,412.99 7,297.94 7,185.18 7,074.53 6,965.66 6,85 8.47
SPWB 10,173.68 10,014.83 9,859.27 9,706.26 9,556.29 9,409.12 9,264.33 9 ,121.76
SCHEDULE B
WEEKLY FIXED WAGES (NRCOLG INDEX - 2100 POINTS )
1ST YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2021.01.01 TO 2021.12.31
 A  B  C
 SKILL SEMISKILL UNSKILL
1. 5998.13 5923.69 5880.04
2. 6052.27 5964.22 5915.12
3. 6106.34 6004.79 5950.28
4. 6160.41 6045.24 5985.38
5. 6214.50 6085.71 6020.47
6. 6268.67 6126.34 6055.58
7. 6322.73 6167.47 6090.67
8. 6376.83 6207.44 6125.76
9. 6431.01 6248.03 6160.83
10. 6485.06 6288.51 6195.99
11. 6539.14 6329.08 6231.04
12. 6593.26 6369.54 6266.21
13. 6647.41 6410.06 6301.35
14. 6701.45 6450.67 6336.46
15. 6755.54 6491.18 6371.59
16. 6809.61 6531.74 6406.67
17. 6863.69 6572.31 6441.79
18. 6917.87 6612.90 6476.88
19. 6972.00 6653.39 
20. 7026.05 6694.07 
21. 7080.18 6734.63 
22. 7134.27
23. 7188.35
24. 7242.45
25. 7296.60
26. 7350.69
27. 7404.73
28. 7458.88
29. 7512.96
30. 7567.04
 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 35A
SCHEDULE B
WEEKLY FIXED WAGES (NRCOLG INDEX - 2100 POINTS )
2ND YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2022.01.01 TO 2022.12.31
 A  B  C
 SKILL SEMISKILL UNSKILL
1. 6477.98  
2. 6536.45
3. 6594.85  
4. 6653.24 
5. 6711.66 
6. 6770.17
7. 6828.55
8. 6886.98  
9. 6945.49 
10. 7003.87 
11. 7062.27 
12. 7120.72 
13. 7179.20 
14. 7237.57
15. 7295.99  
16. 7354.38 
17. 7412.79 
18. 7471.30 
19. 7529.76 
20. 7588.13
21. 7646.59 
22. 7705.01 
23. 7763.42
24. 7821.85  
25. 7880.33 
26. 7938.75 
27. 7997.10
28. 8055.59
29. 8113.99  
30. 8172.40
6397.58  
6441.36 
6485.17
6528.86  
6572.57 
6616.45
6660.87  
6704.03
6747.87
6791.59  
6835.41 
6879.10 
6922.86 
6966.73 
7010.47 
7054.28 
7098.09 
7141.94 
7185.67
7229.59  
7273.40
6350.44  
6388.33 
6426.30 
6464.21 
6502.11
6540.03  
6577.92 
6615.82 
6653.70 
6691.67 
6729.53 
6767.51
6805.45  
6843.37 
6881.32 
6919.20 
6957.13
6995.03

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 36A
SCHEDULE B
WEEKLY FIXED WAGES (NRCOLG INDEX - 2100 POINTS )
3RD YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2023.01.01 TO 2023.12.31
  
 A  B  C
 SKILL SEMISKILL UNSKILL 
  
 1. 6996.22 6909.39 6858.47 
 2. 7059.37 6956.67 6899.40
 3. 7122.44 7003.98 6940.41
 4. 7185.50 7051.17 6981.35
 5. 7248.59 7098.37 7022.27
 6. 7311.78 7145.76 7063.23
 7. 7374.83 7193.74 7104.16
 8. 7437.94 7240.36 7145.08
 9. 7501.12 7287.70 7186.00
 10. 7564.18 7334.92 7227.00
 11. 7627.26 7382.24 7267.89
 12. 7690.38 7429.43 7308.91
 13. 7753.54 7476.69 7349.89
 14. 7816.57 7524.07 7390.84
 15. 7879.67 7571.31 7431.82
 16. 7942.73 7618.62 7472.74
 17. 8005.81 7665.94 7513.70
 18. 8069.00 7713.29 7554.63
 19. 8132.15 7760.52
 20. 8195.18 7807.96
 21. 8258.32 7855.27
 22. 8321.41 
 23. 8384.49 
 24. 8447.60 
 25. 8510.75 
 26. 8573.85 
 27. 8636.87 
 28. 8700.03 
 29. 8763.11 
 30. 8826.19 

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 37A
SCHEDULE C
MONTHLY FIXED SCALE ( NRCOLG INDEX - 2100 POINTS) 
1ST YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2021.01.01 TO 2021.12.31
 A  B  C
 SKILL SEMI SKILL UNSKILL
 
 1. 25815.94 25498.22 25308.93
 2. 26048.52 25672.72 25460.27
 3. 26281.00 25846.95 25611.25
 4. 26513.55 26021.57 25762.26
 5. 26746.03 26195.73 25913.56
 6. 26978.59 26370.28 26064.88
 7. 27211.09 26544.58 26215.77
 8. 27443.65 26719.08 26367.11
 9. 27676.09 26893.29 26518.07
 10. 27908.66 27067.83 26669.42
 11. 28141.20 27242.11 26820.39
 12. 28373.68 27416.67 26971.73
 13. 28606.23 27591.20 27122.64
 14. 28838.76 27765.45 27273.94
 15. 29071.25 27939.66 27424.92
 16. 29303.81 28114.23 27575.93
 17. 29536.40 28288.79 27727.26
 18. 29768.84 28463.33 27878.56
 19. 30001.38 28637.92 
 20. 30233.87 28812.45 
 21. 30466.43 28987.03 
 22. 30698.95  
 23. 30931.50  
 24. 31163.95  
 25. 31396.53  
 26. 31629.06  
 27. 31861.54  
 28. 32094.08  
 29. 32326.62  
 30. 32559.10

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 38A
SCHEDULE C
MONTHLY FIXED SCALE ( NRCOLG INDEX - 2100 POINTS) 
2ND YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2022.01.01 TO 2022.12.31
 A  B  C
 SKILL SEMISKILL UNSKILL
 1. 27881.21 27538.08 27333.64
 2. 28132.40 27726.54 27497.09
 3. 28383.48 27914.71 27660.15
 4. 28634.63 28103.29 27823.24
 5. 28885.71 28291.38 27986.64
 6. 29136.87 28479.91 28150.07
 7. 29387.98 28668.15 28313.03
 8. 29639.14 28856.61 28476.48
 9. 29890.18 29044.75 28639.51
 10. 30141.35 29233.26 28802.97
 11. 30392.49 29421.48 28966.02
 12. 30643.58 29610.00 29129.47
 13. 30894.73 29798.50 29292.45
 14. 31145.86 29986.69 29455.86
 15. 31396.95 30174.83 29618.91
 16. 31648.12 30363.37 29782.01
 17. 31899.31 30551.89 29945.44
 18. 32150.35 30740.40 30108.84
 19. 32401.50 30928.95 
 20. 32652.58 31117.45 
 21. 32903.74 31306.00 
 22. 33154.86  
 23. 33406.02  
 24. 33657.07  
 25. 33908.25  
 26. 34159.39  
 27. 34410.46  
 28. 34661.61  
 29. 34912.75  
 30. 35163.82

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 39A
SCHEDULE C
MONTHLY FIXED SCALE ( NRCOLG INDEX - 2100 POINTS) 
3RD YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2023.01.01 TO 2023.12.31
 A  B  C
 SKILL SEMISKILL UNSKILL
   1.  
 2. 
 3. 
 4. 
 5. 
 6. 
 7. 
 8. 
 9. 
 10. 
 11. 
 12. 
 13. 
 14. 
 15. 
 16. 
 17. 
 18. 
 19. 
 20. 
 21. 
 22.  
 23.  
 24.  
 25.  
 26.  
 27.  
 28.  
 29.  
 30.
30111.71
30382.99
30654.16
30925.40
31196.57
31467.82
31739.02
32010.27
32281.39
32552.66
32823.89
33095.07
33366.30
33637.53
33908.70
34179.97
34451.26
34722.38
34993.61
35264.79
35536.04
35807.25
36078.50
36349.63
36620.91
36892.14
37163.30
37434.53
37705.77
37976.93
29741.13  
29944.67 
30147.88 
30351.56 
30554.69 
30758.30 
30961.60
31165.14  
31368.33 
31571.92 
31775.19 
31978.80 
32182.38
32385.62 
32588.82 
32792.43 
32996.04
33199.63  
33403.27 
33606.84 
33810.48
29520.34
29696.86
29872.96
30049.10
30225.57
30402.07
30578.8  
30754.60 
30930.67 
31107.21 
31283.30 
31459.82 
31635.84 
31812.33 
31988.43 
32164.57 
32341.08 
32517.55

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 40A
SCHEDULE D
MAINTAINANCE DEPT - MONTHLY FIXED SCALE (NRCOLG INDEX  - 2100 POINTS)
1ST YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2021.01.01 TO 2021.12.31
  
 A  B  C  
 SKILL SEMISKILL UNSKILL PROB 
  
 1.  
 2. 
 3. 
 4. 
 5. 
 6. 
 7. 
 8. 
 9. 
 10. 
 11. 
 12. 
 13. 
 14. 
 15. 
 16. 
 17. 
 18. 
 19. 
 20. 
 21. 
 22.  
 23.  
 24.  
 25.  
 26.  
 27.  
 28.  
 29.  
 30.  
29910.35
30685.47
31460.56
32235.61
33010.64
33785.76
34560.85
35335.95
36110.95
36886.05
37661.13
38436.21
39211.27
39986.33
40761.46
41536.50
42311.58
43086.70
43861.73
44636.82
45411.89
46186.98
46962.04
47737.16
48512.19
49287.34
50062.41
50837.50
51612.60
52387.69
27935.66
28319.81
28710.70
29094.83
29485.76
29869.90
30260.89
30645.04
31035.91
31420.12
31811.00
32195.20
32586 09
32970.25
33361.18
33745.29
34129.48
34513.63
34897.79
35281.97
35666.21
25308.93 
25504.39 
25699.86 
25895 40 
26084.06 
26279.53 
26474.97 
26670.41 
26859.17 
27054.58 
27249.99 
27447.62 
27634.24
27829.64 
28025.12 
28220.11 
28409.27 
28604.74
16000.00

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 41A
SCHEDULE D
MAINTAINANCE DEPT - MONTHLY FIXED SCALE (NRCOLG INDEX  - 2100 POINTS)
2ND YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2022.01.01 TO 2022.12.31
  
 A  B  C  
 SKILL SEMISKILL UNSKILL PROB 
  
 1.  
 2. 
 3. 
 4. 
 5. 
 6. 
 7. 
 8. 
 9. 
 10. 
 11. 
 12. 
 13. 
 14. 
 15. 
 16. 
 17. 
 18. 
 19. 
 20. 
 21. 
 22.  
 23.  
 24.  
 25.  
 26.  
 27.  
 28.  
 29.  
 30.  
16000.0032303.18
33140.31
33977.40
34814.46
35651.49
36488.62
37325.72
38162.82
38999.83
39836.94
40674.02
41511.11
42348.17
43185.24
44022.38
44859.42
45696.51
46533.64
47370.67
48207.76
49044.84
49881.94 
50719.01 
51556.14 
52393.17 
53230.32 
54067.41 
54904.50 
55741.61 
56578.70
30170.51
30585.40
31007.56
31422.41
31844.62
32259.50
32681.76
33096.64
33518.78
33933.73
34355.88
34770.81
35192.98
35607.87
36030.07
36444.92
36859.83
37274.72
37689.61
38104.53
38519.51
27333.64
27544.74
27755.84
27967.03
28170.79 
28381.89
28592.96
28804.04
29007.91 
29218.94 
29429.99 
29643.43
29844.97
30056.01
30267.13 
30477.72
30682.01
30893.12

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 42A
SCHEDULE D
MAINTAINANCE DEPT- MONTHLY FIXED SCALE (NRCOLG INDEX - 2100 POINTS) 
3RD YEAR EFFECTIVE FROM 2023.01.01 TO 2023.12.31
 A B C PROB
 SKILL SEMISKILL UNSKILL
 1. 34887.43 32584.16 29520.34 16000.00
 2. 35791.53 33032.23 29748.32 
 3. 36695.59 33488.16 29976.31
 4. 37599.62 33936.21 30204.39
 5. 38503.61 34392.18 30424.45
 6. 39407.71 34840.26 30652.44
 7. 40311.77 35296.30 30880.40
 8. 41215.85 35744.37 31108.36
 9. 42119.82 36200.28 31328.54
 10. 43023.89 36648.43 31556.46
 11. 43927.94 37104.36 31784.39
 12. 44832.00 37552.48 32014.91
 13. 45736.02 38008.42 32232.57
 14. 46640.06 38456.50 32460.49
 15. 47544.17 38912.48 32688.50
 16. 48448.18 39360.51 32915.94
 17. 49532.23 39808.62 33136.57
 18. 50256.33 40256.69 33364.57
 19. 51160.32 40704.78 
 20. 52064.38 41152.89
 21. 52968.43 41601.07
 22. 53872.49
 23. 54776.53
 24. 55680.63
 25. 56584.62
 26. 57488.75
 27. 58392.80
 28. 59296.86
 29. 60200.93
 30. 61105.00

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 43A
SCHEDULE - DD
STEPS FOR WAGES STRUCTURE FOR ENGINEERING DEPT
 1. An unskilled worker seeking a promotion to the semiskilled grade should have served a minimum of 5 years in the 
unskilled grade and have during this period attended a practica l course of training in one of the Technical Colleges 
and his basic grade course duration should be a minimum of 6 months (part time ). Further he should satisfy that he 
has gathered suﬃ  cient knowledge.
or
  A Person has to stay a Minimum of 10 years in unskilled grade  and prove to the satisfaction of his supervisors of his 
capabilities for promotion from unskilled to semiskilled.
 2. A Semiskilled worker seeking a promotion, should have worke d a minimum of  07 years as a semiskilled worker and 
satisfy his superiors his capabilities handling skilled work.
  Further he should have suitable technical qualiﬁ  cations covering his Trade obtained from a Technical College a nd 
should be conversant in reading manuals, cataloques, etc., in his trade.
 3. Trade Learners and Apprentices should have followed a full time course in their respective ﬁ eld a period not less 
than 3 years. After a period of one year they will be entitled to go to a semiskilled grade provided they satisfy their 
superior of their capabilities. 
SCHEDULE - E
  The Company shall pay to each of  the standard production wag es rated employee covered and bound by this 
Agreement an annual long service award commencing in December 1 991 and thereafter in December of each 
succeeding year during the continuance in force of this Agreeme nt. Provided, however, that such Long Service 
Award shall not be payable to any employee who has not completed a full calendar year's service. The Long Service 
Award shall be paid in accordance with the scales set out below  and such award shall be deemed to be part of 
wages only for the purpose of computing the bonus referred to i n Clause 13 of this Agreement and Provident fund 
Contributions.
 YEARS OF SERVICE LONG SERVICE AWARD
 1-5 Years LKR. 700/-
 6 - 10 years LKR. 850/-
 11 - 15 years LKR. 1100/-
 16 - 20 years LKR. 1300/-
 21- 25 years LKR. 1,550/-
 26 years and above LKR. 2,000/-

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 44A
Memorandum of Settlement 
entered into under the 
Provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act No. 1950 (as amended)
Between
Bata Shoe Company of Ceylon Limited
(Hereinafter referred to as " The Company")
And
The Commercial & Industrial Workers Union
Hereinafter referred to as " The Union"
The matters set out in the list of demands annexed to the Union 's letter to the Company dated 15th January 2021 are all 
deemed to be settled in terms of the Collective Agreement entered into between the parties on 23rd March 2022 and as per this 
Memorandum of Settlement. A Copy of the Union demands annexed to the Letter dated 15th January 2021 is annexed hereto 
as Annexure I.
  Wages Scale .–
  The company agrees to revise the scales of wage respective ca tegories of employees as set out herein under accordingly; 
the wages of employees will be increased as follows.
 a. An increase by a sum equal to six percent(6%) of the wages applicable as at 1st January 2021 to 31 December 2021.
(1st Year)
 b. An increase, by a sum equal  to  Eight percent (8%) of the wages applicable from 1st January 2022 to 31 st December 
2022.(2nd year)
 c. An increase by a sum equal to Eight percent (8%) of the wag es applicable as at 1st January 2023 to 31st December 
2023. (3rd Year)
  Demand No (1)–
  Pay the NRCOLG Allowance currently declared by the government  with the arrears.
    The union demand cannot be considered. Present practice wil l be continued.
  Demand No (2) Salaries .–
 I. Introduce a monthly salary scheme for all employees.
  The union demand cannot be considered.
 • Increase the monthly minimum basic salary of grade 8 employees up to LKR. 45,000/- and increase other higher 
grades by applying the same percentage.
  The Union demand cannot be considered.
 • Increase the basic monthly salary of Grade C-1 Employees up to LKR. 45000/- Increase wages for other grades 
by the same percentage.
   The Union demand cannot be considered.

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 45A
 II. Increase all employees' salaries by 60%
   Inccreased 22% which will be split into three years starting  from 2021 - 2023
 III. Current monthly NRCOLG payment to be incorporated to the basic 
   The Union demand cannot be considered
 IV . All Government declared increments for the private sector employees to be added to the salary without any condition
   The union  demand cannot be considered.
  Demand No. (3) Fixed Wages Employees .–
  All ﬁ  xed waged employees' annual salary increments should be upgraded by  3 times per year according to their grades, 
instead of the one annual salary increment.
  Union demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be c ontinued.
  Demand No. (4) EPF Contributions .–
  Contribute to EPF 10% from the Employee and 15% from the Comp any.
  Union demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be c ontinued.
  Demand No. (5) Service Award .–
  Service award to be increase by 50%.
    Please refer schedule E as above
  Demand No. (6) Bonus .–
  Increase the current Bonus amount of 1.5 months up to 3 month s.
    Union demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be  continued.
  Demand No. (7) Temporary Transfers .–
  Ensure to pay maximum wages of the grade during temporary tra nsfers.
    Union demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be  continued.
  Demand No. (8) Night Shift Allowance.–
 I.  Second shift allowance to be increased from 20% to 50%.
  2 nd Shift Allowance will be  increased 22.5% in the year of 2023.
 II. Provide transport facilities after the completion of the s econd shift (including overtime)
  Union demand cannot be considered.
 III. Third Shift Allowance to be increased up to 60%
  Third Shift Aallowance will be remain as 15%.
  Demand No. (9) Breakfast .–
  Provide breakfast for all workers and snack at the tea time ( including overtime days)
  Union Demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be  continued.

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 46A
  Demand No. (10) Casual & Annual Leave .–
  Reimburse remaining medical and casual leave by adding of 25%  for the year when the employee retire.
  Union Demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be c ontinued.
  Demand No. (11) Uniform & Pair Shoes .–
  Provide three sets of cotton uniforms and two pairs of shoes annually to replace the current uniform criteria.
 Union Demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be  c ontinued.
  Demand No. (12) Insurance .–
 I. Increase the current OPD Amount of LKR. 6600/- to LKR. 1500 0/- 
      Increased OPD Limit up to LKR. 7,000/- per annum.
 II. Increase the current payment of LKR. 100,000/- for hospita lization to LKR. 200,000/- and include the same insurance 
policy to the family members.
  Increased hospitalization amount up to 110,000/- per annum on ly for employees.
 III. Pay compensation of LKR. 1,000,000/- to the dependents in  the event of an accident or natural death while an employees 
is in service.
  Present practice will be continued.
 IV . Increase accident leave from three to ﬁ ve days. Those holidays are considered to be  paid holidays.
  Union demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be c ontinued.
  Demand No. (13) Emergency Leave .–
  Grant 1.5 hour's Emergency leave on 2 occasions for a month.
    Union Demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be  continued.
  Demand No. (14) Special Payment for Union O ﬃ  cials.–
  Union Oﬃ   cers Weekly payment of LKR. 1000 to be increased by 50%.
    Union Demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be   continued.
  Demand No. (15) Fixed Wages .–
  When the ﬁ  xed wages employees transfer to the temporary job, pay an allowance of LKR. 300/- and if they achieved the 
piece rate target pay another allowance of LKR. 300/- 
    It is agreed to pay LKR. 100/- only if they achieved the ta rget output.
  Demand No. (16) Spectacles .–
  Provide a pair high - quality spectacles.
    Increase current spectacles allowance up  to LKR. 2500/- an d that can be claimed once in  one  and half years.
  Demand No. (17) Flood .–
  During the production process if any natural disaster situation  (ﬂ ood) pay the maximum wages, at least if they have 
achieved 65% from the target output of the production.
    Union Demand cannot be considered.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 47A
  Demand No. (18) Travelling Expenses .–
  Provide an amount of LKR. 300/= as travelling expenses for em ployees who are called for work on annual leave.
    Union Demand cannot be considered.
  Demand No. (19) School Children .–
  For the school children of members, provide suitable pair of shoes matching to their school uniform, once a year.
    Union Demand cannot be considered.
  Demand No. (20)  Birthday Gift Vouchers .–
  Increase the gift voucher given for birthdays up to LKR. 2500 /=.
    Amount will be increased to LKR. 1500/-
  Demand No. (21) Shoe Purchase Card .–
  Increase the discount of the shoe card by 20% to 30% and incr ease its face value up to LKR.30, 000/=.
    Union Demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be  continued.
  Demand No. (22)
  Below Facilities/Allowances Enjoyed By Employees Has To Be Increased By 50%
 • 25 years long service award-Increased As follows.–
  Amount will be increased to LKR 32,500 for the employees who have completed 25 years of service and will 
be paid as follows.
  LKR 20,000 in cash and LKR 12,500 worth of Bata Gift V ouchers .
  This will be paid for those who are in the service by the tim e of the Collective Agreement is signed.
  • Scholarship -Increased as follows.–
  Grade V Scholarships. –
  The Company will grant Scholarship Award of LKR 12,500/- per child for 15 children of the employees who 
have qualiﬁ ed at the  Scholarship examination. In the event of there bein g more than 15 such children, the 
company will select the best 15 based on their marks obtained.
  Scholarships- University Entrance- Increased as follows. –
  The company will grant a scholarship of LKR 17,500/-per child  for 10 children of the employees who have 
qualiﬁ ed for university entrance. In the event of there being more t han 10 such children, arrangements will 
be made with the University to choose the 10 most meritorious. The amount shal be same for the entire 
University stay of each student
 • Picnic. –
  Union Demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be c ontinued.
 • Retirement Gift. –
  Amount will be increased by LKR 12,500

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 48A
 • Death Donation
  Amount will be increased by LKR 115,000.
 • Soap
  Present practice will be continued.
  Demand No. (23) .–
  In case of death of a member, the full transport cost should be borne by the company.
    Present practice will be continued.
  Demand No. (24) .–
  Include the 2011 Interim Agreement into the Collective Agreem ent.
    Union Demand cannot be considered.
  Demand No. (25) .–
  Provide a Sinhala copy of the collective agreement to be sign ed.
    Union Demand cannot be considered.
  Demand No. (26) .–
  Grant the opportunity to make new proposals during the discussion period.
    Union Demand cannot be considered.
 1. To deploy Union Leaders in the production process
 • One Union Leader will be available full time for Union require ments and the balance 2 will be involved in the 
production process.
 • If the union leaders belong to Piece Rate work category will continue to get the weekly allowance of LKR.1000 
each and if he belongs to monthly Fixed or weekly ﬁ  xed payment category he will be entitle LKR.1000 per 
month.
 • If the Union discussions exceeds over 2 hours, then the concer ned Union Leader’s earnings will depend on the 
department’s performance of the day.
 • If one Union Leader is deployed in the main operation, then he should be placed in a position which will not have 
an adverse eﬀ ect on the production due to his time spent on union work. The Union Leader could be transferred 
within the same department if a vacancy  exists and if not he will be transferred to any other department, but will 
have his attendance marked in the original department.
 • If in case more than one union leader is appointed from a depa rtment, then one has to be transferred to another 
department. However, his attendance will be marked in the original department while his earnings/beneﬁ ts will 
be as per his output in the transferred department.The other union leader will remain in the same department in 
a position which will not aﬀ ect the production output adversely due to attending to Union matters.
 • Subsequently upon completing his term, he will revert to his o riginal department.

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'07'28
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 28.07.2023
 49A
All agreed terms will be eﬀ  ective after the Collective Agreement is signed except the sal ary increase which will be 
eﬀ ective from 1st January 2021.
EOG 07-0275
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
