

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2118$46 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2019'04'09
No. 2118/46 -  TUESDAY  APRIL  09,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  4479— 10  (04/2019)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SOUTHERN  PROVINCE  IRRIGATOIN  PRECEPT,  No.  01  OF  2019
A Precept to make provisions to devise ways and means to plan, implement, activate, supervise, monitor
and maintain all  irrigation activity, except Southern Province’s inter provincial irrigation schemes and
inter provincial lands and irrigation schemes, in order to establish a Southern Provincial Irrigation
Development Fund to facilitate such activities and to provide for all related activities in pursuance of
article 19 of list 1 in attachment 9 of the 13th amendment to the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
SOUTHERN   PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Statute of Irrigation bearing No. 01 of 2019 under the Southern Provincial Council
I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation, Water
Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Cooperative Development of Southern Provincial
Council hereby inform to the General Public that the Statute of Irrigation No. 01 of 2019 which had already been approved
dated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province followed by the approval made dated 26.03.2019 by the
Southern Provincial Council is enacted since 01st April, in 2019.
U
DALAMATHTHA  G AMAGE D AY AW ANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,
Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation,
Water Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade &
Cooperative Development of Southern Provincial Council.
4th Floor, Dakshinapaya,
Labuduwa,
Galle,
At the Minister’s Office,
Ministry of Agriculture, Southern Province,
On 01st April, 2019.
Prologue

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
2A
Concise Name
Effective date
Establishing the
Department
This Precept will replace the Irrigation Ordinance No. 32 of 1948 amended by the Irrigation Amendment
Act, No. 1 of 1951, Irrigation Amendment Act, No. 48 of 1986, Irrigation Amendment Act, No. 37 of
1973, Irrigation Amendment Act, No. 23 of 1983, Irrigation Amendment Act, No. 34 of 1990 and Irrigation
Amendment Act, No. 13 of 1994.
Southern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka will enact as under.
1. This Precept will be known as the Southern Provincial Irrigation Precept No. 01 of 2019.
2. This Precept will be effective from the date it is sanctioned by the Governor of the Southern
Province
1st Chapter
3. In order to implement the provisions of this Precept, the Southern Provincial Irrigation
Department (hereinafter known as the ‘Department’) will be established.
(1) Accordingly, for the purpose of exercising the authority this Precept would bestow upon
the Department, a Director shall be appointed in the title of Southern Provincial Irrigation
Director and that director shall be the head of the Department.
(2) To achieve the wider objectives of the department and to expedite the work flow and
facilitate the management, the department will be comprised with as Additional Provincial
Director, Chief Irrigation Engineer, 3 District Irrigation Engineers, 3 Irrigation Engineers
and a supporting staff.
(3) Provisions of Article 32 of the Provincial Council Act, amended by Provincial Council
(amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990 shall be relevant in appointing the Provincial Irrigation
Director, Additional Provincial Irrigation Director.
4. The Provincial Irrigation Director should be subject to the general administration and directives
of the Secretary in charge of irrigation.
2nd Chapter
5. The Director shall have the following powers :
(1) To plan and implement the existing irrigation schemes within the province more
productively.
(2) To plan and implement the new irrigation schemes within the province more productively.
(3) To obtain the corporation of the farmer community towards the rehabilitation, maintenance
and conservation of irrigation systems.
(4) To bring before the law those persons that cause damages to irrigation systems and
irrigation reserves. To make necessary charges and complaints.
(5) To map out and declare the irrigation reserves
(6) To prevent and minimize the environmental eventualities that cause dilapidation and
deterioration of the irrigation schemes and to develop environmentally protective schemes.
Appointing a Head
of the Department
Compsition of the
Department
Under the directive
of the Secretary
Powers of the
Director

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
(7) To take necessary steps to construct and maintain responsive devices to minimize
destructions cause by floods.
(8) To take required step to effect responsive constructions and maintenance to prevent sea
water from flowing in through paddy lands.
(9) To appoint officers to supervise irrigation network Development Committees.
(10) To enter into a particular property as required with prior intimation for an inquiry or
investigation, in pursuance of the objectives and duties connected to the Precept.
6. The Director shall delegate powers vested in his office to the Additional Director of Irrigation
and to the Chief Irrigation Engineer in writing.
7. The scope of work and the objectivity of the Director shall be listed as follows :
(1) The Southern Provincial Director of Irrigation shall identify, documents, map out and
declare, at Grama Niladhari Level, all types of irrigation systems that fall within the subject
itinerary of the department.
However, if the irrigation systems so declared in the notice warrants changes or new
inductions, such changes or inductions should be declared by the Director in concurrence
with the Minister.
(2) The Director should devise the Annual, Short-terms and Long-term plans for new
constructions, rehabilitations, development and conservation of the provincial irrigation
schemes.
(3) Should submit the plans prepared to the Provincial Planning Committee or the Chief
Secretary and obtain approval for the plans before those are executed.
(4) Should establish, maintain and register a committee called the irrigation Development
and Conservation committee at field level for the Provincial Irrigation project.
(5) Should establish, maintain & register, Irrigation Network Development and Conservation
Committee for the whole irrigation network in a way that it represents Irrigation
Development and Conservation committees.
3rd Chapter
8. The Director of the Southern Province Irrigation Department should establish an Irrigation
Conservation & Development Committee at field level for every irrigation development project.
(1) To be appointed as a member of an irrigation conservation & development committee, as
person should possess for following qualifications :
(a) He/She should be a person whose main livelihood is agriculture ;
(b) He/She should be a person of not less than 18 years of age ;
Delegation of the
Director’s powers
The Director’s
objectives and the
scope of work
Establishing
committee at the
‘field level’
membership
Quoram,
Constitutioin and
the work
objectives

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
4A
(c) Should be either a permanent resident or a person engaged in agriculture for a period
of two years or more in the area under the purview of the Irrigation Conservation &
Development Committee in which you aspire to be member.
(2) To be appointed as an Associated member of a Irrigation Conservation & Development
Committee, a person should possess the following qualifications.
(a) Even though not a person whose main livelihood is agriculture he/she should be, a
resident, owner or a person in possession of an agricultural land in the area under
the purview of the committee in which you aspire to be member.
(b) Should be a person engaged in the dealership/marketing of goods related to
agriculture or agricultural produce.
(3) With approval of the Southern Provincial Agriculture Director and in concurrence with
the membership of the subject committee, the Agricultural Instructor of the area could
be appointed as the consultant of the relevant Irrigation Conservation & Development
Committee.
(4) A committee so appointed should have 1/3rd of its membership in attendance to make a
quoram at a committee meeting.
(5) Every Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should function under a
constitution approved by the Director.
9. The duties of an irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should be as follows
(1) Every Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should bring to the notice of
the department all maintenance activities associated with Water cascades, Tanks, Anicuts,
Brooks and Water Bubbles, within the area of its purview and execute those under  the
supervision of the department.
(2) Ensure that all irrigation management activities of the area are done properly and in time.
(3) Ensure that the corporations necessary for efficient management of water supplied by
irrigation works and used in agricultural activities are obtained through the relevant
institutions.
(4) To render necessary assistance and encouragement to the agricultural organizations to
grow paddy or alternative crops in the paddy and agricultural lands as suitable.
(5) To render necessary assistance and prompting to the  agricultural associations to perform
the customs and traditions associated with paddy and other cultivations.
(6) To initiate activity to conserve the soil by safeguarding it from disease and pesticides.
10. (1) With the consent of the majority in the Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee
a person should be appointed as the Field Level Agent (Yaya Neyojitha) and that agent
could be either a member or an office bearer of the Irrigation Conservation &
Development Committee.
(2) The Field level representative appointed could continue to hold office for three years
unless the appointment is cancelled.
Qualifications of
an Associated
member
Duties of an
Irrigatioin
Conservation &
Development
Committee
Appointment of a
‘Field Level
Agent’ and the
period of Office

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
11. The Office of the field level representative appointed as per article 10 above may fall vacant in the
following situations.
(1) The death of the field level representative.
(2) A letter of resignation sent to the Director or which the Director has responded stating
that the resignation has been accepted.
(3) Removal by the Director or revelations of inefficiency and irregularities as a result of an
investigation sanctioned by the Director.
(4) By a proposal carried with a 2/3rd majority of the Irrigation Conservation & Development
Committee.
12. (1) An appeal, connected to removals affected under clause (2) and (3) of article 11 could be
made in writing to the Secretary by the person subjected to the removal within 30 days of
such removal, and the ruling issued by the secretary on such an appeal should be final.
(2) Accordingly, when appeal is made as per clause (1) of this article, the Irrigation
Conservation & Development Committee should refrain from appointing an alternative
representative until a ruling is given by the Secretary or until 30 days lapse from the date
of removal.
13. The duties of a field level representative should be as follows :
(1) To protect the irrigation works in the area within his/her purview and to extend cooperation
to the department to bring before law those causing damages to the irrigation works, to
take necessary steps to conserve water issued by irrigation tanks and other irrigation
systems and to assist and direct in the conduct of agriculture activity in keeping with
planned Agri-Timetables.
(2) To take necessary action at any required moment in keeping with the  paddy lands register
of the area within his/her purview, maintained by the Agrarian Development Department.
(3) To hand over the facility to use water the main irrigation bund and the main water sub
division according the entitled share based on, sowing extent and due share of each
landowner or custodian listed as per the Paddy Field register of the Agrarian Development
Department and to enter in to a written agreement with the parties concerned on the
process required to effect such handing over.
(4) To mark the boundaries with the assistance of the Director on a suitable system based on
the partitions made for each landowner custodian by the Field Level Agent (Yapa Niyojitha).
(5) To ensure that the irrigation section marked for each party is devoid of shrubs and weeds
and that the channel bunds washed away are rehabilitated with the help of soil brought,
either from the reservation area or from outside and that those are maintain properly &
suitably.
14. (1) If any activity is being carried out in breach of the agreement reached as per clause (3) of
article 13., the Field Level Agent should report such situations to the Director.
Resignation &
Removal of the
Field Level Agent
Appeals against
removal
Duties of the fileld
level agent
The Director
reporting
violations to a
Magistrate

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
6A
(2) In the event of a reporting to the Director as stated in clause (1) above, the Director or an
officer duly empowered by the Director, may issue a 7-day notice to the party that is in
violation. If the party in violation still continues to refrain from rehabilitating and
maintaining his/her share of the channel portion, the director may report the matter to a
Magistrate in a Magistrate court that has jurisdiction over the area, and the Magistrate
may summon the concerned party on such reporting and issue a suitable ruling to ensure
that the principal maintenance work is accomplished.
4th Chapter
15. An Irrigation Network Development Committee comprising of representatives of Irrigation
Conservation & Development Committee and based on the physical location of the irrigation
projects should be established covering an irrigation network.
16. (1) From among the Field Level Agents who represent Irrigation Conservation & Development
Committee, three representatives should be appointed as the President, Secretary and the
Treasurer by the members.
(2) The members of every Irrigation Network Development Committee should appoint a
suitable executive committee comprising of a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer being
permanent office bearers and other members not exceeding four.
(3) In the event of an office of the committee failing vacant, until a suitable  Field Level
Agent “Yaya Niyojithaya” is elected by a vote of members, the Director should appoint a
suitable member representing the committee to carry out the duties of that office.
(4) In a situation where some opposition has arisen with regard to the activities of the office
of a particular officer of the Irrigation Network Development Committee, the members
of the committee may forward a proposal with the consent of 2/3rd of the members to
remove that officer from office to the Director. The Director should take suitable action
in such a situation.
17. The duties of the Irrigation Network Development Committee should be as follows :
(1) To work towards the conservation of its own irrigation network.
(2) To present proposals and ideas at rehabilitation and development activities to give priority
to irrigations works of the network.
(3) To protect all irrigation reserves and catchment areas located within the network.
(4) To assist in the protection of all irrigation systems and water works areas within the
network.
(5) As per the provincial Irrigation department’s approved network plan, to assist the officers
of the department to protect the reserves and the characteristic  manifestations that should
be present within the network.
18. The Director should register every Irrigation Network Development Committee.
19. (1) Every Irrigation Network Development Committee should maintain an account in its name,
in a commercial bank recognized by the Government.
Establishing an
Irrigation Network
& Development
Committee.
Composition of
the Irrigation
Network
Development
Committee.
Duties of the
Irrigation Network
Development
Committee

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
(2) The account maintained by the committee should be audited by a person empowered by the
Director and report of that audit meant for every financial year should be forwarded to the
Director by the President of the committee before the 31st March of the year following the
financial year.
20. No person should release irrigation water under an irrigation project towards a commercial
purpose which is not agricultural.
However, if the Director grants permission for water to be  released for a commercial enterprise
which is not agricultural, the fees chargeable for such release of water should be in keeping
with the directives issued under this precept.
5
th Chapter
21. To facilitate the activities aimed at achieving the objectives of this Precept, a fund titled the
Provincial Irrigation Development Fund would be established herewith.
22. (1) The Fund established under article 21 above should be a corporation by its name having
perpetual succession and a common seal with the capacity to sue and be sued under its
name.
(2) Provincial Irrigation Development Fund (hereinunder known as the Fund) should be
constituted with an administrative board comprising the following members appointed by
virtue of the office they hold.
(a) The Secretary to the subject Minister of the Southern Provincial Council
(b) Deputy  Chief Secretary (Planning) of the Southern Province
(c) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) of the Southern Province.
(d) Director of Irrigation Southern Province
(e) Director of Agriculture - Southern Province
(3) The Secretary to the Ministry shall be the Chairman of the Fund
(4) The Secretary of the Fund shall the Chief Irrigation Engineer of the Southern Province.
(5) The  Accounts of the Fund should be prepared by the Chief Accountant of the department
subject to the administration of the Secretary to the Fund.
23. The objectives of the Fund should be as follows :
(1) The accomplish the maintenance, operations, development and rehabilitation activities
of the irrigation projects in the area in a more efficient manner.
(2) To conduct research and development activity connected to the field of Irrigation.
(3) To control the disasters caused by floods and sea water more effectively
(4) To provide facilities for the conservation of irrigation reserves
Use of irrigated
water for a
purpose other
than agriculture.
Institution of the
Proviincial
Irrigation
Development
Fund.
The objective of
the Fund.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
8A
(5) To improve the human resources of the Irrigation Conservation & Development Committees
and the Irrigation Network Development Committees.
24. The scope and authority of the Fund should include the following.
(1) To hold, dispose, purchase, lease or sell property
(2) To enter into agreements with outside parties on whatever activity that contribute towards
furtherance of the Fund’s objectives.
(3) To identify, sanction and implement the projects that are within the objectives of the
Fund, whatever their form and content may be, and to procure the required resources and
consultancy at implementation.
(4) To procure and obtain all physical resources and services that are required in the
implementation of activities designed in furtherance of the objectives of the fund.
(5) To prescribe the human effort required in various activities conducted in furtherence of
the objectives of the Fund and to meet such expenditure.
(6) To initiate activity that falls in line with the precept and to meet all expenditure in
connection with such activity or on item that needs to be discharged in the interest of the
fund and the precept.
25. The receipts to the Fund would be from following sources.
(1) Fees charged for supplying irrigated water to commercial purposes other than agriculture.
(2) Monies sanctioned by the Government from time to time as aid.
(3) Monies sanctioned by the Southern Provincial Council for activities of the fund
(4) Monies received as donation from individuals, institutions or organizations for the
development of irrigation facilities in the area.
(5) Monies levied as service fees by the committees.
(6) Monies collected through exhibitions, lotteries and such customary avenues.
26. Expenditure met by the Fund would as follows :
(1) Any item of expense connected to an activity that is in furtherance of the objectives of
this Precept.
(2) Expenses incurred in the discharge of obligations under the agreements entered in to in
the name of the Fund and expenses connected to the purchase of goods and obtaining of
services in the name of the Fund.
(3) Expenses connected to payment for human endeavours and other payments in connection
with services supplied for the Fund.
(4) Expenses incurred in the discharge of whatever responsibilities connected to the Fund.
Scope and
Authority of the
Fund
Receipts to the
Fund
Expenses of Fund

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
27. All Current and other accounts in favour of the Fund should be maintained at a bank approved by
the government.
28. The financial year for the transactions of the Fund should be a calendar year from 1st Jan. to
31st December and the Secretary to the Funds should prepare accounts of the Fund for every
financial year and submit same before 31st March of the following year to the Chief Secretary.
29. The auditing of the accounts of the Fund should be in keeping with the provisions of the
constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(1) The Annual report prepared by the Secretary to the Fund on administration and maintenance
of accounts of the Fund for every calendar year should be submitted to the Administrative
Board of the Fund before the 31st May of the year following, and the report approved by
the Board should be submitted to the Minister before the 30th June of that year.
2
(2) The Administrative report on the Fund presented to the Minister, accompanied by a copy
of the Audited Accounts of the year and a copy of the Auditor General’s report on the
accounts, should be presented to the Southern Provincial Council with the approval of the
Board of Ministers of the Southern Provincial Council.
6th Chapter
30. It is an offence to commit the following acts under this precept.
(1) ( a) To obstruct the activities conducted under the precept.
(b) To disturb the activities conducted under the precept.
(c) To place the activities of the Precept in confinement without due approval.
(d) To cause the activities of the precept to be disturbed or confined.
(e) To permit the waste of water collected either intentionally of with malice.
(f) To cut down trees.
(g) To construct unauthorized constructions.
(h) To carry out unauthorized cultivations.
(2) To remove or cause to remove, without due permission, sand or mineral sands, from, a
tank, a stream in the catchment area, an irrigation works, a waterway, a tank access, a dam,
a conservation, a bund, a river bank or an irrigation reserve.
(3) To allow or cause to allow any waste matter to be released to, an irrigation works, a
stream, a waterway or a paddy land or to wash machines or vehicles in such a way to  make
that happen.
(4) To construct a tank, to dig a waterway or to construct a structure without the written
permission of the Director.
(5) To release animals or livestock to roam free causing damages to an irrigation system,
stream, waterway or to an irrigation reserve.
Maintaining the
Fund accounts &
their Auditing
Offences.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
10A
(6) To carry out agricultural activity in the reservation areas of the tank without due permission
in writing from the Director.
(7) To grow paddy, other irrigable crops or to multi-crop without permission, against the
agreement on the crops reached at the cultivation term meeting held.
(8) To conduct the affairs of one’s activity in a way that does unduly impinge on the rights of
others by such activity.
31. A person pronounced guilty of any of the above offenses, except on clause (2) of article 30
above, by a Magistrate Court, should be subjected to a penalty of, either a fine not less than
Rs. 10,000 not exceeding Rs. 50,000 or a term  of imprisonment not less than 6 months and not
exceeding 12 months, or a penalty instituted in combination of both.
32. A person pronounced guilty of an offence under clause (2) of article 30 above, by a Magistrate
Court, should be subjected to a penalty of, either a fine not less than Rs. 50,000 and not exceeding
Rs. 100,000 or a term of imprisonment not less than 6 months and not exceeding 12 months or
a penalty instituted in a combination of both.
33. The Minister should enact directives on account of all instances where the precept states, ‘that
the Minister is required to do so’ and also on account of all matters where it is required to do so
in the attainment of the objectives of the precept.
34. All officers of the department should be considered as public servants in terms of the definition
given in the penal code.
35. In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of
this Precept, the Sinhala version should be taken to prevail.
36. Unless an alternative definition is required, the following terms used in this precept should
mean as below.
(1) “Provincial Council” should mean the Southern Provincial Council.
(2) “Minister” should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Irrigation in the Southern
Provincial Council.
(3) “Secretary” should mean the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of Irrigation in the
Southern Province.
(4) “Provincial Irrigation Department” or the “department”  should mean the  Southern
Provincial Department in charge of Irrigation.
(5) “Additional Provincial Director”  should mean the Deputy Head of the  Southern Provincial
Department of Irrigation.
(6) “Paddy Lands”  as per the definition given in this Precept, should mean Lands that are
being used, or lands that have the potential to be used, for cultivation of paddy and this
may include lands that have been dispossessed under the  Private Lands and Land
Development Ordinance, Government Land Ordinance or under any other such Act.
Definitions

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
(7) “Field”  should mean any part of the cultivable land that has been sanctioned by the
Southern Provincial Department of Irrigation either by naming or by use of the same.
(8) “Custodian”  should mean the owner, or the leasehold owner, of the land or any other
person engaged in the cultivation of the land for agricultural purpose such as the ‘Angda’
cultivator and also include those who use or are in custody of lands dispossessed under
the Land Development Ordinance or any such other ordinances.
(9) “Irrigation Tank”  should mean one or more irrigation areas comprising of, reservations,
streams, canals and paddy fields legitimately included in the Agricultural Land owners’
register.
(10) “Cascade or Irrigation Network”  should mean one or more irrigation areas comprising
of, irrigated creations, catchment areas collecting water, reservations, streams, canals
and paddy fields, that revolves around a stream of water that spawns from a specific sloping
area flowing downstream in one direction, overflowing due to rain and flowing down,
collected finally before it reaches a river or a main river by an irrigation construction that
enables the control and management of such water.
(11) “Service Fees”  should mean a sum of money levied by the Irrigation Development
committee on the basis of units of water being a contribution made to a Fund enacted as
per the rules and regulations by the Minister in charge of the subject, in keeping with this
Precept, to carry out rehabilitation and maintenance work of the networks of minor
irrigations, small tanks, streams bunds etc. for their providence when the monies due for
such activity from the Government or from the Provincial Council is either not received
or is delayed.
(12) “A Share”  should mean an irrigation share entitlement of the water way or a main channel
calculated in proportion to the ratio of farmers and the area of paddy lands listed in the
paddy land register, in a minor irrigation scheme or a plot of paddy lands that have obtained
irrigated water.
(13) Irrigation reserve is a part of the irrigation network. It is an area of land determined as
required by the Director, either in connection with any activity of providence of a Canal,
Waterway, Tank, Agri-road or any other such related item or an area required to
accommodate additional water in a flood situation or an area required  for the purpose of
parking and accommodating the machinery used by the workers and for the use of workers.
04 - 894
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.