

<!-- page 1 -->

207
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023. 09'08
Part II – Gazette of the democrat Ic Soc Ial IS t r epubl Ic of Sr I l anka - 08.09.2023
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
P ART  II  — Le GAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Im P o RTA n T   n o TI ce  Re GARDI n G   Acce PTA nce  of  n o TI ce S  
f o R   Pub LI c ATI on  I n  T he  Week L y   “G A ze TT e”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th September 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th    
September  2023
e lectronic Transactions Act, n o. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January
, 2023.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
207 - B 82493- 353 (09/2023)
Page Page
 
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 208
wxl 2"349 - 2023  iema;eïn¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2023 .09'08
no. 2,349  FRIDAy,  SEPTEMBER 08, 2023
Note.- Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 25, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

208
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.09'08
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 08.09.2023
Miscellaneous Notices
PARLIAmenT
"Act to Incorporate the International Traditional Sihelogy council (ITSc)" 
I, Premnath C. Dolawatte, Attorney at Law, do hereby give notie under the Standing Order 53 of Standing Orders of the 
Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill titled "Act to 
Incorporate the International Traditional Sihelogy Council (ITSC).".
Purpose of the Bill is to incorporate the said "International Traditional Sihelogy Council (ITSC)" which has the 
General objects as follows :-
 ( a) To establish a degree-awarding institution named the International Traditional Sihelogy Institution (ITSI) ;
 ( b) To promote Traditional Sihela medicine, Sihela nursing, Sihela farming, Sihela martial arts, Sihela astrology, 
Sihela exorcism and Sihela dance through members representing all three languages i. e. Sinhala, Tamil and 
English ; and
 ( c) To take action to boost foreign earnings for Sri Lanka by supporting the enhancement of mental and physical 
health of tourists through the promotion of international tourism activities by assisting wellness eco-tourism.
etc .
 P remnath  C. D olawatte , Attorney-at-Law
 Member of Parliament,
 District of Colombo.
09-164
PRINTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANkA.