

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2463
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2444 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"352 – 2023 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks nodod – 2023'09'27
No. 2,352  –  wEdNEsday ,  sEPtEmbER 27, 2023
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE"
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20
th october, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th october, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2441 - b 082499 - 5,403 (09/2023)
Note.—    Office for National Unity and Reconciliation Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of september 22, 2023.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2442
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a sri 
Lankan. a ,sri Lankan, is a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a sinhalese educated in sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public service in a medium other than sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public service. such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘w idows and orphans’ Pension scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  service and Public 
service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public service, Provincial Public 
service, Public corporate sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2443
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall staff. if there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. when answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. while in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. should the supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  when appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. if you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. when log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) when you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. w rite neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  when mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2444
Posts - v acant 
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages 
Tamil  medium
bATTICALOA    DISTRICT
aPPLicatioNs are called for the Post of Registrar of  births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages for the divisions 
set out in the schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Registrar of  births, deaths and marriages/additional marriages 
division and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired 
sufficient interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Tamil Language with 02 credit passes in not more than 
t wo (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language as per the 
language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as V illage name list/Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths and 
Marriages/Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained 
from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district secretariat, divisional secretariat or relevant 
land and district Registries, Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted 
in the schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "annex - 01" inclusive of V illage name list/Grama Niladhari divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 31.10.2023 by registered post to the address given in the 
schedule.
  
W. R. a. N. S. WijayaSiNghe, 
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
13th september, 2023.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2445
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
batticaloa manmunai w est, Vavunathivu
Post of  births & deaths Registrar 
of mahilavaddavan division & Post 
of marriages Registrar of manmunai 
w est division (t amil medium)
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, batticaloa.
09 - 423
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
GENERAL SIR JOhN kOTELAWALA DEfENCE uNIvERSITy
CALLING APPLICATIONS fOR
uNDERGRADuATE PROGRAmmES fOR OffICER CADETS 
 1.  aPPLicatioNs  are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankan applicants who sat for 2021  (except for mbbS 
degree) and 2022 G.C.E. A/L examination (held in february 2023) and who sat for the Cambridge/Edexcel 
A/L examination in 2022 and 2023 for the Undergraduate Programmes for Officer Cadets at General Sir John 
Kotelawala Defence University Ratmalana and its Southern Campus Sooriyawewa from 25 / 09 / 2023 to 18 / 10 / 2023. 
all the eligible candidates will be called for the basic medical assessment and the written test.
 2.  General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University has been empowered to award degrees to those Officer Cadets who, 
after being enlisted to the commissioned officer ranks in the Regular Forces of the Tri-Services, will successfully 
complete the academic & military components of studies pertaining to the degree programmes by the General sir 
John Kotelawala Defence University Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto.
 3.  The degree programmes applicable to the Officer Cadets that will be conducted at KDU – Ratmalana : 
   
Degree Duration 
    (Years)
 i.  bachelor of medicine and bachelor of surgery (mbbs) 05
 ii.  bachelor of science in Engineering Honours 04
 iii.  bachelor of Laws (LLb)   04
 iv.  bachelor of science Honours in computer science 04
 v.  bachelor of science Honours in computer Engineering 04
 vi.  bachelor of science Honours in software Engineering 04
 vii.  bachelor of science Honours in  data science and business analytics 04
 viii.  bachelor of science in Logistics management 03
 ix.  bachelor of science in management & t echnical sciences 03
 x.  bachelor of science in social sciences 03
 xi.  bachelor of science  in applied data science communication 03
 xii.  bachelor of arts degree in t eaching English to speakers of other Languages  03
  (tEsoL)
 xiii.  bachelor of science in strategic studies and international Relations 03
 xiv.  bachelor of science in Police science 03
 xv.  bachelor of science in criminology and criminal Justice 03

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2446
The degree programmes applicable to the Officer Cadets that will be conducted at Southern Campus – Sooriyawewa :
   Degree Duration 
    (Years)
 xvi.  bachelor of architecture Honours 05
 xvii.  bachelor of science Honours in Quantity surveying 04
xviii.  bachelor of science Honours in surveying sciences 04
 xix.  bachelor of science Honours in information technology 04
 xx.  bachelor of science Honours in information systems 04
 xxi.  bachelor of technology Honours in information and communication technology 04      
  
Selected Officer Cadets will be assigned to a mandatory military course for a period decided by the University prior and /or 
after the commencement of degree programmes. 
 3.1 The allocation of Officer Cadets for the Armed Forces will be based on the availability of vacancies in each 
service, the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews conducted for selection and the minimum physical 
standards and other requirements of each Service. Officer Cadets will be commissioned in the Regular Forces 
of the sri Lanka army, Navy and air Force after successfully completing of the relevant degree programmes.
 3.2  on successful completion of the academic and military training components of the respective degree 
programmes, the Officer Cadets will be awarded one of the following degrees:
 i.  bachelor of medicine and bachelor of surgery (mbbs) 
 ii.  bachelor of science in Engineering Honours
 iii.  bachelor of Laws (LLb) 
 iv.  bachelor of science Honours in computer science 
 v.  bachelor of science Honours in computer Engineering 
 vi.  bachelor of science Honours in software Engineering 
 vii.  bachelor of science Honours in data science and business analytics 
 viii.  bachelor of science in Logistics management 
 ix.  bachelor of science in management & technical sciences 
 x.  bachelor of science in social sciences 
 xi.  bachelor of science in applied data science communication 
 xii.  bachelor of arts degree in teaching English to speakers of other Languages (tEsoL) 
 xiii.  bachelor of science in strategic studies and international Relations 
 xiv.  bachelor of science in Police science 
 xv.  bachelor of science in criminology and criminal Justice 
 xvi.  bachelor of architecture Honours
 xvii.  bachelor of science Honours in Quantity surveying 
 xviii.  bachelor of science Honours in surveying sciences 
 xix.  bachelor of science Honours in information technology 
 xx.  bachelor of science Honours in information systems 
 xxi. bachelor of technology Honours in information and communication technology 
 3.3  all degree programmes are conducted only in the medium of English.
 3.4 selected candidates will be allowed to follow one of the following bachelor’s degree Programmes in 
accordance with their qualifications. 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2447
 a.  bachelor of medicine and bachelor of Surgery (mbbS) – five years (male & female)
  For those who have followed the bio-Science Stream (biology, chemistry and Physics) at the advanced Level 
Examination in 2022, obtained a minimum of two credit Passes (c) for biology, Chemistry and one simple 
Pass (s) for Physics at G.C.E. (A/L) and are eligible to apply for University Admission or obtained a minimum 
of three “c” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination. 
 
  the results should be in one and the same sitting, and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
  the results of the advanced Level Examination in the current year or the immediately preceding year will be 
considered for the mbbs degree programme for the candidates who have cambridge / Edexcel or any other 
equivalent foreign qualification. Note: However, the results of the immediately preceding year (2021) will be 
considered only if the candidate has completed the advanced Level Examination of cambridge / Edexcel or 
any other equivalent at the age of 17 years.
 b. bachelor of Science in Engineering honours in Aeronautical/ bio-medical/ Civil/ Electrical & Electronic/ 
Electronic & Telecommunication/ marine/ mechanical/ mechatronic/ Naval Architecture & marine/ 
building Services Engineering - four years (male & female)
  For those who have followed maths Stream (chemistry, Physics, and Combined mathematics) at the 
advanced Level Examination obtained at least minimum two credit Passes (c) and one simple Pass (s) in 
each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2021 or 2022 and are eligible to apply for university admission or 
obtained a minimum of two “b” Passes and one “c” Pass at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination 
in 2023 or 2022. the results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are 
allowed.
 c.  bachelor of Laws (LLb) - four years (male & female)
  For those who have followed bio, maths, Commerce or Art Stream, obtained a minimum of two credit 
Passes (c) and one simple Pass (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2021 or 2022 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of three “c” Passes at cambridge /Pearson Edexcel a/L or equivalent 
examination in 2023 or 2022 for any three of the following subjects.
  Candidates should have followed at least one subject from the following list:
   accounting  biology agricultural science
   Geography Psychology Higher mathematics
   business statistics Law business studies
   Logic & Scientific Method History Economics
   Physics chemistry  computer science
   communication & media studies mathematics/ combined mathematics    sociology 
   Elements of Political science information & communication technology  
     and   
  maximum two subjects from the following list :
 
  buddhism/ buddhist civilization  spanish tamil
  christianity / christian civilization  Hinduism / Hindu civilization sanskrit  
  Greek & Roman civilization islam / islamic civilization French 
  Japanese  chinese sinhala

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2448
  English  Pali     arabic
  German  English Literature       
classical studies  Global Perspectives & Research
 
  the results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed. in addition, 
candidates should obtain at least a credit Pass (c) in sinhala/t amil at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination.
 d. bachelor of Science honours in Computer Science – four years (male & female)
  For those who have followed maths Stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of 
three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for University Admission 
or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 
2022, for Combined mathematics, Physics and any one of the following subjects. The results should be in 
one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed. 
chemistry   
Higher mathematics 
information and communication technology 
   
 e.  bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Software Engineering – four years (male & female)
  For those who have followed maths Stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of 
three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for University Admission 
or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 
2022, for Combined mathematics, Physics and any one of the following subjects. The results should be in 
the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 
chemistry   
Higher mathematics 
information and communication technology 
 f. bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Computer Engineering – four years (male)
  For those who have followed maths Stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of 
three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for University Admission 
or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 
2022, for Combined mathematics, 
  Physics and any one of the following subjects. The results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum 
of three attempts are allowed.
 
chemistry   
Higher mathematics 
information and communication technology 
 g.  bachelor of Science honours in Data Science and business Analytics – four years (male)
  For those who have followed maths Stream (Chemistry, Physics, and Combined mathematics) at the 
advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2449
and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / 
Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 2022. the results should be in one and the same sitting and 
a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 
 h. bachelor of Science in Logistics management - Three years (male & female)
  For those who have followed bio, maths or Commerce Stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained 
a minimum of three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2023 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination 
in 2023 or 2022. the results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are 
allowed.
  
 i. bachelor of Science in management & Technical Sciences – Three years (male & female)
           For those who have followed bio or maths Stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum 
of three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for university admission 
or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 
2022.  the results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
   
 j. bachelor of Science in Social Sciences – Three years (male & female) 
          For those who have followed any stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three 
simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for university admission or 
obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 
2022.  the results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 k.  bachelor of Arts in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) - Three years (male & 
female)
  For those who have followed any stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three 
simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2023, and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained 
a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent in 2023 or 2022.  the results should 
be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed. they should also have obtained 
a minimum of a “b” pass for English Language at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination.
 l.  bachelor of Science in Applied Data Science Communication – Three years (male) 
  For those who have followed any stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three 
simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for university admission or 
obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 
2022.  the results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
  To follow the bSc in Applied Data Science Communication degree programme, Art stream students 
should have taken Statistics and/or Economics as a subject/subjects.
 
 m.  bachelor of Science in Strategic Studies and International Relations – Three years (male)
 
          For those who have followed any stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three 
simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2023 and are eligible to apply for university admission or 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2450
obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 
2022. the results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
  
 n. bachelor of Science in Police Science - Three years (male)
  For those who have followed bio, maths, Commerce or Art stream at the advanced Level Examination, 
obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) for three subjects from the following list at G.C.E. (A/L) in 
2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes for 
three of the following subjects at Cambridge / Edexcel A/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 2022.  the 
results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
  Either all the three subjects from the list ‘A’ or two subjects from the list ‘A’ or one subject from list ‘B’:
List ‘A’
accounting  chemistry 
Geography  mathematics / combined mathematics
business statistics information & communication technology
Logic & Scientific Method  Agricultural Science 
Physics  Higher mathematics 
communications & media studies     business studies 
Political science  Economics 
biology Law
History    
                                  
List ‘b’
buddhism   islam / islamic civilization 
buddhist civilisation   chinese
christianity / christian civilization                 Pali    
Greek and Roman civilization  German
Japanese  tamil
English (Subject No.73) French
sanskrit sinhala
Hinduism / Hindu civilization   arabic
agro - t echnology
     
  in addition, candidates should satisfy the following requirements.
  A Credit Pass (C) in Sinhala or Tamil subjects in G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
 o. bachelor of Science in Criminology and Criminal Justice – Three years (male)
            For those who have followed bio, maths, commerce or art stream at the advanced Level Examination, 
obtained a minimum of three simple Passes (s) for three of the following 
 
  subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2022 or 2023 and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a 
minimum of three “D” Passes for three of the following subjects at Cambridge / Edexcel A/L or equivalent 
examination in 2023 or 2022. the results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three 
attempts are allowed.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2451
  Either all the three subjects from the list ‘A’ or two subjects from the list ‘A’ or one  subject from list ‘b’
List ‘A’
accounting                                chemistry 
Geography      mathematics / combined mathematics
business statistics     information & communication t echnology
Logic & Scientific Method      Agricultural Science 
Physics      Higher mathematics 
communications & media studies       business studies 
Political science      Economics 
biology     Law
History    
 
List ‘b’
buddhism         islam / islamic civilization 
buddhist civilisation        chinese
christianity / christian civilization                  Pali    
Greek and Roman civilization    German
Japanese      t amil
English (Subject No.73)     French
sanskrit     sinhala
Hinduism / Hindu civilization     arabic
agro - t echnology
   
  in addition, candidates should satisfy the following requirements.
  A Credit Pass (C) in Sinhala or Tamil subjects in G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
 p. bachelor of Architecture honours – five years (male &  female)
           For those who have followed bio, maths, Commerce or Art stream at the advanced Level Examination, 
obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) for three of the following subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2022 or 
2021 and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes for three 
of the following subjects at Cambridge / Edexcel A/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 2022. the results 
should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 i)  At least one of the following subjects,
biology  art 
Higher mathematics  Geography
chemistry   
Physics 
combined mathematics 
 and
 ii)  The remaining subject / subjects from the following list ;
Accounting  Logic & Scientific Method
Hindu civilization  mathematics  
business statistics  sanskrit
islamic civilization German   
Greek & Roman civilization  arabic   
Elements of Political science  History  

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2452
             English (Subject No 73)  Business Studies    
sinhala Japanese
christian civilization  Economics 
communication & media studies Pali
Hindi French
buddhist civilization tamil
Home Economics information & communication technology 
agricultural science chinese
     and
 iii)  at least a credit Pass (c) in mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) Examination or a simple Pass (s) in 
mathematics at the G.c.E. a/L Examination or at least a “d” Pass in mathematics at cambridge/ 
Edexcel o/L or equivalent. 
      and 
 iv)  Should pass the spatial cognition test conducted by KDU.
 
q.  bachelor of Science honours in Quantity Surveying – four years (male & female)
  For those who have followed the maths stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of 
three Simple Passes (S) for three of the following subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2022 or 2023 and are eligible 
to apply for the university admission or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes for three of the following 
subjects at Cambridge / Edexcel A/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 2022. the results should be in one 
and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 At least one subject from,
 combined mathematics/ Higher mathematics
    and 
 the other subject / subjects from the following list; 
 accounting    Economics   business statistics 
 business studies    Physics   chemistry 
 information & communication technology 
In addition, candidates should satisfy the following minimum requirements at the Ordinary Level Examination. 
  minimum of a credit Pass ‘’(c)” in mathematics and simple pass ‘’(s)’’ in science at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.
  or
  minimum of “(d)” Passes in mathematics and science at the cambridge / Edexcel or   equivalent foreign o/L 
qualification.
r.   bachelor of Science honours in Surveying Sciences – four years (male & female) 
            For those who have followed maths Stream at the advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of 
three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for University Admission 
or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 
2022, for Combined mathematics, Physics and any one of the following subjects, The results should be in 
one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
  Chemistry, higher mathematics or Information and Communication Technology
 
 s. bachelor of Science honours in Information Technology – four years (male & female)
  For those who have followed bio / maths / Commerce or Art Stream at the advanced Level Examination, 
obtained a minimum of three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2453
university admission or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent 
examination in 2023 or 2022. the result should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three 
attempts are allowed.
  
 t. bachelor of Science honours in Information Systems – four years (male)
  For those who have followed bio / maths / Commerce or Art Stream at the advanced Level Examination, 
obtained a minimum of three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 and are eligible to apply for 
university admission or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / Edexcel a/L or equivalent 
examination in 2023 or 2022. the result should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three 
attempts are allowed.
 u. bachelor of Technology honours in Information and Communication Technology – four years (male)
  For those who have followed Physical Science stream (Combined mathematics, Physics and Chemistry), 
biology stream (biology, Chemistry, Physics) or Technology stream (Any subject combination) at the 
advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three simple Passes (s) at G.c.E. (a/L) in 2022 or 2021 
and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a minimum of three “d” Passes at cambridge / 
Edexcel a/L or equivalent examination in 2023 or 2022. the results should be in one and the same sitting and 
a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 
 3.5 Selected Officer Cadets must follow common subjects relevant to the degree programme and it is mandatory to 
follow English, management, Information Technology, Law, International Relations and military subjects. 
 3.6 In addition, all selected Officer Cadets must continuously must follow Exercises, Drill Activities, Weapon 
Training, and Leadership course during their training.
4. a) Basic eligibility requirements for Officer Cadets:
    The candidate should :
 i.  be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 ii.  be not less than 18 years of age as at 18/10/2023 and not more than 22 years of age as at 01/01/2023.
 iii.  Have passed the G.c.E. a/L common General test (minimum 30 marks).
 iv.  Be eligible to apply for University admission in Sri Lanka at a maximum of three attempts, if he /she is a 
G.c.E. a/L candidate.
 v.  Be unmarried (No Officer Cadets will be permitted to get married while under training and until permitted by 
service Regulations).
      b) Other eligibility requirements:
 i.  candidates who have sat for the 2021 G.c.E. a/L examination (except for mbbs), 2022 G.c.E. a/L examination 
(held in 2023) and those who have sat and received results of the cambridge / Edexcel or equivalent a/L 
examination in 2023 or 2022 are eligible to apply.  
 ii.   obtained a minimum of a credit (c) Pass for English Language at G.c.E. (ordinary Level) Examination or 
obtained a minimum of a (c) Pass for English Language at cambridge / Edexcel or equivalent for all degree 
programmes except tEsoL. obtained a minimum of a (b) Pass for English Language at G.c.E. (ordinary 
Level) Examination or cambridge / Edexcel  or equivalent o/L examination for ba  in teaching English to 
speakers of other Languages (tEsoL).

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2454
 iii.  Educational qualifications for the Sri Lanka Air Force 
  minimum of six credit (c) Passes at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) Passes for 
English Language, science and mathematics, and a simple (s) Pass or above for sinhala / t amil Language in 
one sitting (additional and optional subjects are not considered).
 iv.  Candidates with Cambridge/ Edexcel or any other equivalent foreign qualifications should have obtained a “C” 
Pass for the sinhala/t amil Language at the local G.c.E o/L Examination. (applicable only for the selected 
degree programmes) if the candidate has not sat for the local G.c.E. (o/L) Examination when submitting 
application in that case, he/she should obtain a “c” Pass for the sinhala/t amil Language within two years after 
enlistment as an Officer Cadet. If the candidate fails to fulfil the above requirement within the specified time, 
he/she will be discharged from the respective service after charging the relevant bond value.
  c) The following minimum physical standards should be satisfied:
 
Army Navy Air Force
Male Female Male Female Male Female
Height mbbs 5' 6" 5' 3" 168 cm 160 cm 5' 5'' 
(165 cm)
5' 3'' 
(160 cm)
other 
degrees 5' 6" 5' 3"
168 cm 
(171 cm 
for Provost 
branch)
160 cm 
(163 cm 
for Provost 
branch)
5'6'' 
(167.5 cm)
5'4'' 
(162.5 cm)
Weight 50 Kg - 52 kg 41kg -- --
BMI - - - - <26 and >17 <25 and >17
Chest 32" 
(Unexpanded) - 81 cm - 32"
(81 cm) -
 
v ision
Army Navy Air Force
L R CP L R CV L R CP
Professional 
category
w ithout  
Lenses 6/18 6/18 c P 2 6/18 6/18
24/24 
by 
ishihara’s 
plates
6/18 6/18 c P 2
corrected 
Vision 6/6 6/6 c P 2 - - - 6/6 6/6 c P 2
w ith 
Lenses - - - 6/6 6/6
24/24 
by 
ishihara’s 
plates
- - -
Near 
Vision - - - J – 01 (sinhala)
N – 08 (English) - - -
other  
category
w ithout  
Lenses
6/9 6/6 c P 2 6/6 6/6 c P 2 6/6 6/6 c P 2

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2455
  Candidates who have undergone eye surgeries for vision correction or enhancement procedures should have 
completed six (06) months by the time of the closing date of applications.
 d. Degrees Programmes of Professional Category 
Service Degree
sL army mbbs , bsc Eng(Hons), 
sL Navy mbbs
sL air Force mbbs
Degree Programmes of Other Category
• all other degree programmes which are not mentioned in the above table.  
  Special Note:
 
 * If a candidate possesses National Level Places in U – 17/ U – 19 level or National Colours in Sports or is a 
President Scout/Prime Minister Scout/President Guide/ Prime Minister Guide/Cadet Under Officer (Senior/
Junior)/cadet sergeant, the above physical standards may be relaxed by the selection committee of Final 
Interview appointed by the Board of Management, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
  If a candidate has won National Level Places U – 17/ U – 19 level in Sports, he/she should have obtained places 
as follows:
  individual Event   – 1st/2nd/3rd Places
  Group Event          – Champion/ 1st Runners Up
 * when a candidate possesses a Z-score of 1.80 or above at the G.c.E (a/L) examination and applies for mbbs 
or bsc(Hons) Engineering degree Programme, physical standards for height is relaxed as 5' 4'' or above for 
male candidates and 5' 2'' or above for female candidates.
 * A candidate is required to fulfil the specifications of visual acuity evidence stipulated by respective Services.
 e) Candidates should conform to the required medical standards  - successful candidates are required to pass a 
medical test following the submission of a medical declaration Form in the prescribed format to the satisfaction 
of the secretary, ministry of defence who is the chairman of the board of management, General sir John 
Kotelawala Defence University. If a candidate is found to have provided false information in the Medical 
Declaration Form prior to the selection, such candidate shall be disqualified and be liable to be discharged on 
the grounds of the provision of false information. the medical declaration Form can be downloaded from the 
university website.
         https://.kdu.ac.lk
 5. Condition of Service  - Selected candidates will be enlisted as Officer Cadets of General Sir John Kotelawala Defence 
University, Ratmalana or its Southern Campus, Sooriyawewa. They will be subjected to laws, regulations, and orders 
made or given under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent 
amendments thereto. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2456
  An Officer Cadet or a Student Police Officer enlisted to follow the MBBS Degree Programme shall serve in an 
armed service or sri Lanka Police for a continuous and uninterrupted period of not less than twenty (20) years from 
the date on which he/she is commissioned as an Officer in the respective Service.
  An Officer Cadet enlisted to follow other degree programmes shall serve in the Armed Service in to which he/she is 
commissioned as an Officer for a continuous and uninterrupted period of not less than twelve (12) years from the date 
on which he/she is commissioned as an Officer in the respective Service. 
  Besides, the degree will not be conferred to any Officer Cadet who is discharged on medical grounds or any other 
condition during the academic period.
 6. at the time of enlistment, selected candidates will have to enter into a bond and an agreement with the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory period as aforesaid after being graduated in the respective 
degree programmes.
 7. Officer Cadets will be paid approximately Rs.80,000/= (including ration allowance) per month as pay and allowances. 
in addition, the following facilities will be provided free of charge:
 (i) Lodging
 (ii) Uniforms 
 (iii) batman facilities 
 (iv) sports & recreational facilities 
 (v) medical facilities
 8. on being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the sri Lanka army, Navy and air Force they will be entitled for 
pay and allowances appropriate to the rank in accordance with the service:
 a. the following allowances are payable monthly:
 (i) Qualification allowance
 (ii) Ration allowance 
 (iii) Disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for married officers only)
 (iv) Uniform up keep allowance
 b. other facilities and allowances:
 (i) accommodation when ordered to live in
 (ii) Limited rent allowance when living in a rented house 
 (iii) Uniform allowance
 (iv)  Batman allowance for unmarried officers and Batman services for married officers 
 9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force/Police will be governed by the following regulations in respect of their pay 
prospects and conditions of service:
 i.  the army/Navy/air Force pay code
 ii.  Current regulations for Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette
 iii.  current army/Navy/air Force Pensions and Gratuity code published in the sri Lanka Government Gazette
 
 10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Vice 
Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and/or respective Service Commanders. 
 11.  Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for training in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2457
 12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to 
stay, in the accommodation provided and follow a 
routine laid down by General sir John Kotelawala 
Defence University or by the respective service 
establishments.
 13. Language Requirements - selected candidates 
will be required to comply with any rules and 
regulations already made or that may hereafter be 
made for giving effect to the language policy of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
 14. Proof of Identity - candidates must produce proof 
of their National identity. identity cards issued by 
the department of Registration of Persons or the 
Post master-General, a valid Passport or a driving 
License issued by the Registrar of motor Vehicles 
will be accepted for this purpose.
 15.   Applications –Visit the University website, https://
kdu.ac.lk  to apply online. 
 (i). y ou should apply for degree programmes 
online only by visiting https//.kdu.ac.lk. 
a demonstration of the online application 
process is available on the KDU website for 
your convenience. Follow the instructions on 
the University website to fill the application 
online, and applications by post will not be 
accepted.
 (ii). candidates should pay non-refundable fee 
of LKR 1500/= (Sri Lanka Rupees) per 
degree programme via online as application 
processing fee. if any candidate fails to make 
the online payment, it is required to submit 
the deposit receipt to the university on or 
before the closing date by paying Rs.1500/- 
(one thousand Five Hundred Rupees) per 
degree programme to any branch of the bank 
of ceylon in favor of “the Vice chancellor, 
General sir John Kotelawala defence 
University” to be credited to the Current 
account Number “9405831” of the bank 
of Ceylon, Kotelawala Defence University 
branch.
 16.   The applications without basic qualifications 
and are not duly filled in accordance with the 
conditions mentioned herein will be rejected without 
notification, and in such instances, the application fee 
will not be refunded. a board appointed by the board 
of management of General sir John Kotelawala 
Defence University will review all applications 
received and shortlist them according to qualifications 
of the candidates. those who are shortlisted will be 
called for the preliminary interview. 
  Duly filled online applications should be forwarded 
through the kDu website on or before 18/10/2023. 
Late applications and applicants who do not 
comply with the conditions mentioned here will be 
rejected.   
 17. applicants from Government service and 
corporations or statutory bodies should forward 
their applications via online. However, they should 
produce a certificate issued by the relevant Heads 
of the departments/ corporations/ statutory bodies 
or relevant institutional head at the Preliminary 
Interview to the effect that the Officer would be 
released if selected.
 18.    Preliminary selection will be made from among those 
candidates who have achieved the required standards 
in accordance with the evaluation criteria determined 
by the selection committee appointed by the board 
of management of General sir John Kotelawala 
Defence University. Candidates who are selected 
from the first interview will be required to undergo 
the Officer Quality Test (OQT) as may be prescribed 
by the board of management of General sir John 
Kotelawala Defence University. The final selection 
will be made by the Final selection committee 
appointed by the board of management of General 
Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.   
 19. candidates who are selected for interviews and 
Officer Quality Test (OQT) will be informed via 
KDU website of the venues, times and the dates of 
such interviews. travelling or other expenses for this 
purpose will not be paid to applicants.
 20. General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University 
shall not be held liable for any injuries sustained by 
candidates whilst undergoing the Officer Quality 
test/ military training and no candidate shall 
make any claim whatsoever from General sir John 
Kotelawala Defence University or the Government 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2458
of Sri Lanka for any injuries sustained whilst undergoing the Officer Quality Test/ Military Training.
 21. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him/her a testimonial. Any form of canvassing 
would be considered as a disqualification.
 22. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. No correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with regard to 
rejected applications.
 23. if a disparity exists between the sinhala Language and tamil Language in the Gazette Notification, you are hereby 
requested to follow the instructions as per the Gazette Notification in the Sinhala Language. 
 
   General 
Kamal guNaRathNe (Retd),
   WWV RWP RSP USP ndc psc MPhil
   secretary, 
   ministry of defence and chairman of the board of management,
   General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
09 - 513
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
PARLIAmENT  Of SRI LANkA
v acancies
aPPLicatioNs are invited from citizens of sri Lanka who are physically sound and of excellent moral character for the 
following posts on the staff of the  secretary General of Parliament.
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen given below should be sent under registered cover along with 
the copies of certificates of educational, higher educational qualifications and experience, to reach the “Secretary-
General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura kotte" on or before October 13, 2023. 
the post applied for should be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope. (this notice is available on the  
website: www.parliament.lk )
 1.  PARLIAmENTAR y OffICER (TAmIL mEDIum)
 1.1 Salary Scale :
  according to the schedule i of the management services  circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, the monthly 
salary scale specified  for this post is Rs.34,605 - 9 x 660/ 3 x 755 - Rs. 42,810/- (The minimum initial gross 
monthly remuneration together with all the allowances will be approximately Rs. 78,000/-)
 1.2 Age Limit :
  should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age by the closing date for applications. (the 
upper age limit shall be 45 years for those who are already confirmed in the Public/Provincial Public Service. 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2459
the upper age limit shall not be applied for internal candidates.)
 1.3 Educational Qualifications :
 (i).   A Degree offered by a University recognized by  the University Grants Commission (UGC) ;
and
 (ii).   Having passed the G.C.E.(O/L)  examination  in  six  subjects including credit passes for Tamil, English/
English Literature and mathematics  in not more than  two sittings.
 1.4 method of Recruitment :
  on the merit of the written and an interview.
Note :  the selected candidates should pass a word processing test in tamil and English languages within a period of one 
year from the date of appointment. in this test, a document in tamil Language with 150 words should be prepared 
within 25 minutes and a document in English language with 250 words should be prepared within 25 minutes.
 2. ASSISTANT RESEARCh OffICER
 2.1 Nature of the Job
• collect data, information and maintain database for research.
• Prepare background notes to the bills presented to the Parliament.
• Prepare fact sheets and statistical extracts for research purposes.
• Assist the Research Officers to conduct desk research.
• study different research documents and extract relevant information for research purposes.
• Assist in the research officers to preparation of research papers for national and international forums, 
journals, magazine and newspapers.
 2.2 Salary Scale
  according to the schedule i of the management services  circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, the monthly 
salary scale specified  for this post is Rs.40,545 - 12 x 755- Rs. 49,605/- (The minimum initial gross monthly 
remuneration together with all the allowances will be approximately Rs. 87,000/-)
 2.3 Age Limit
  should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age by the closing date for applications. (upper 
age limit will not be applicable for those who are confirmed in the Public/Provincial Public Service.)
 2.4 Educational Qualifications:-
 (i).   A Special degree in any of the subjects of Economics, Sociology, Political Science, Law, Management, 
Statistics awarded by a University recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC);
and
 (ii).   Having passed G.C.E.(O/L) examination in six  subjects including credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil, 
mathematics and  English  not more than in two sittings.
 2.5 Experience
  three years of post-qualifying research experience in the Government / recognized institution.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2460
 2.6 method of Recruitment
  on the merit of the written and an interview.
 3. Terms and Conditions of Service
 (i).  these posts are permanent. Pension entitlement pertaining to these posts will be determined according to 
policy decisions taken by the Government in future. Appointment will be made initially subject to a three-year 
(03) probation period. If an internal candidate or a person who has been confirmed in a permanent post in the 
Public/ Provincial Public service is selected, he / she will be appointed subject to an acting period of one year.
 (ii).  Selected candidates will be subjected to the Financial and Departmental Regulations applicable to the staff of 
the secretary General of Parliament.
 (iii). selected candidate should contribute to the w idows’ and orphans’/w idowers’ and orphans’ Pension Fund 
from his/her salary  with a percentage specified by the Government.
 (iv).    Selected candidates will be subject to a medical examination.
 (v).  a  security clearance Report with respect to the selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / her 
appointment.
     4.     Applicants should attach copies (NOT ORIGINALS) of the following   certificates to their applications. Originals of 
the certificates should be produced when called upon to do so.
 (a) Birth Certificate
 (b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications
 (c) Certificates of Experience
 5. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public service/Public cooperation/ statutory boards and internal 
candidates should send their applications through relevant Heads of departments / institutions.
 6. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
 7. any information in the application found to be incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant liable for 
disqualification, and to dismissal, if discovered after appointment.
 8. Applications received after the closing date or sent without copies of the relevant certificates or not sent through 
Heads of Departments/Institutions will be rejected. Applications sent through Heads of Departments/Institutions but 
received after the closing date, and applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen will also be rejected.
 
KuShaNi RohaNadeeRa,
 secretary General of Parliament.
Parliament of sri Lanka,
sri Jayewardenepura, Kotte. 
25
th  september, 2023

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2461
PARLIAmENT Of  SRI LANkA
specimen application Form
Post of ……………………………………………
01. (a) Name with initials (in sinhala/t amil) : ...................................................................................................................
  ..................................................................................................................................................................................
 (b) Names denoted by initials (in sinhala/t amil)  : ......................................................................................................
  ..................................................................................................................................................................................
 (c) Full Name (in block capitals): (mr./mrs.) : ...................................................................................................
  ..................................................................................................................................................................................
02.  National identity  card Number :
03. (a) Private address: ......................................................................................................................................................
  ..................................................................................................................................................................................
  ..................................................................................................................................................................................
  
  t elephone No. : 
 (b) Official Address: .....................................................................................................................................................
  ..................................................................................................................................................................................
  …………………………………………………………………………………….................................................
  
  t elephone No. : 
 (c)  Please indicate the address to which the admission should be posted. 
  Private : Office :
04. (a) date of birth: ………………………………………............................................................................................... 
  (A copy of the birth Certificate should be attached)
 (b) age as at closing date for applications: years: ........ months: ........ days: ...........
05. Civil Status: (Married/Unmarried)
06.  Gender : (male/Female)
07.  state whether a citizen of sri Lanka: (y es/No)
08.  Educational Qualifications : (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
 
 G.c.E.(o/L)    year - ..................................................
Subject Pass Year

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2462
Subject Pass Year
09.  Higher Educational Qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be attached ):
 
 University  :  …………………………….................................................
 degree  :  …………………………….................................................
 year  :  …………………………….................................................
 
10. Experience (Copies of the Certificates should be attached)
Institution Position Service Period
11.  details of Present Employement :
 
(a)  Name and address of the institution : ..................................................................................................................
(b)  date of First appointment : ..................................................................................................................................
(c)  Present Post : ........................................................................................................................................................
(d)  monthly basic salary : ...........................................................................................................................................
(e) allowances : .........................................................................................................................................................
(f)  Gross salary : ........................................................................................................................................................
12. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a court of Law? ( yes / No)
 if yes, give details:
 ………………………………………………………………………………………….................................................
13. Have you served under the Government before? ( yes / No )
 if yes, give details:
 .........................................................................................................................................................................................
i, do hereby certify that all the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that,  
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made after appointment.
date: ............................ ………................................
 signature of the applicant

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2463
mINISTR y  Of EDuCATION
First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers of Sri Lanka Education  
Administrative Service - 2021 (2023)
it  is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative 
service will be held in December 2023.
02.  the syllabus and other provisions of this examination have been published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1928/28 of 
21.08.2015 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka. the syllabus and other provisions are listed as follows 
for easy reference of the applicants.
03.  examination Procedure :
Subject Duration Total Marks Pass Mark
i. General administration 03 hours 100 40
ii. Financial Regulations 03 hours 100 40
iii. Education Law, administration and Evaluation 03 hours 100 40
04.  conducting authority of the Examination : commissioner General of Examinations
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(only for applicants serving in the Public service/Provincial Public service)
secretary - General of Parliament,
 i recommend and forward the application of mr. / mrs. /miss ............................... holding the post of .............................
.......................... in this Institution. I certify that he/she has been /has not been confirmed in this post and his/her work and 
conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is no intention to make 
such inquiry. He/she can be released/cannot be released from the service if selected for this post. (Please strike through the 
irrelevant words)
date: ................................... ...................................................................,
  signature of Head of department/institution.
  (Official Stamp)
09 - 596
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2464
05. Syllabus of the examination  :
Subject Syllabus
1. General administration (a)   constitute of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka and the previous 
constitutions of 1972 and 1947.
• convention on the Rights of the child
• Human Rights commission act
• commission to investigate bribery and corruption act
(b)   Office and field organization methods and paragraphs VII, IX, X, XVI, XXV , 
XXVI, XXVII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII, XLVII, XLVIII of the Establishments 
code (including timely amandments)
(c)    Procedural Rules of the Public service commission.
ii. Financial Regulations (a)    Financial Regulations of the Government (Except for chapter i/including timely 
amendments)
(b)   Revenue and Expenditure Estimates of the current year. Eg : their formation, 
Revenue Heads, Finance and appropriation bills.
(c) Ordinances and other Laws relating to specific accounting conducted by the 
Education Officers.
iii. Education Law, 
administration and 
Evaluation
(a)    Provisions of the Education Law
• Education ordinance No. 31 of 1939
• amendment No. 26 of 1947
• amendment No. 05 of 1951
• amendment No. 43 of 1953
• statute on Government schools
assisted schools and training colleges (special Provisions) act, No. 05 of 1960
assisted schools and training colleges (supplementary Provisions) act, No. 08 of 
1961
Education (change of designations) Law, No. 35 of 1973
assisted schools and training college (special Provisions) act, No. 65 of 1981
National institute of Education act, No. 28 of 1985
Public Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968
college of Education act, No,. 30 of 1986
Reports of the National Educaiton commission (w ithin three immediate years from 
the examination)
Facility and service Fees
circulars relating to Past Pupils' associations and school development societies.
(b)    Education administration
1. (i) ministry of Education
(ii) organization and functions of the ministry of Education and the departments 
and institutions coming under the purview of the ministry including Provincial 
departments of Education.
(iii) Educational planning at National and Provincial level and common goals 
(objectives) (Including school layouts)
2. schools management and school community relations.
3. Educational management information system (Emis)
4. special Education Programmes, Non-formal Educational activities, school based 
management.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2465
(c)     Evaluation
• criteria utilized for evaluation of the performance of teachers.
• school based Evaluation
• self - evaluation programmes in schools.
• supervision of schools by the ministry of Education, Provincial 
Departments of Education and Zonal Education Offices.
• supervision of internal Evaluation by external groups (candidates are 
advised to aware themselves on handbooks and other publications issued 
by the ministry of Education.)
 
N.B.- all three question papers consist of short questions and structured questions.
06. An officer may face all the subjects prescribed for the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination at the same time or on separate 
occasions.
07. Language Medium of the examination
   i.  Examination will be conducted in sinhala, tamil and English languages.
  ii.  candidates should face the examination in one preferred language.
 iii.  candidates may appear for the examination in the same language medium of the competitive examination through 
which he/she was qualified to enter public service. Candidates, who enter public service without a competitive 
examination may face the examination in the medium he/she appeared for the qualifying examination to enter 
public servcie.
08. if revealed of a canidate appearing for the examination in a language medium not entitled, his/her candidature will be 
cancelled. the language medium applied will not be allowed to alter later.
09.  application should be prepared as per the following format using both sides of an a4 sized paper. (Nos. from 01 to 
06 should appear on the first page while the rest appear on the second page) In Sinhala medium applications, the title 
of the examination should be written in English Language in addition to sinhala Language while the title should be 
written in English Language in addition to tamil Language in tamil medium applications. candidate should complete 
the application in his/her own handwritting of the candidate. incomplete applications and applications not in accordance 
with the specimen will be rejected without further notice. Keeping a copy of the completed application would be 
beneficial. Further, the candidate should ensure that the application is in accordance with the specimen application; 
otherwise the applications not in compliance will be rejected. Submitting more than one application by a canidate is 
considered as an offence.
10. Examination Results :
  (i).  the decision of the commissioner General of Examinations relating to the conduct of the examination and the 
issuance of the results would be final and conclusive.
(ii).  Result sheet including the results of all the candidates, who have appeared for the examination will be forwarded 
to the secretary to the ministry of Education by the commissioner General of Examinations.
11. applications should be sent by registered post to reach the "commissioner General of Examinations, institutional 
Examinations organization branch, department of Examinations, P.o. box. 1503, colombo" on or before 25th 
October, 2023 through their respective Heads of the department. title of the examination should be mentioned on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope. Late applications will be rejected.
12. candidates, who have submitted perfected applications including the language medium, signature of the applicant 
and the attestation of the Head of the department along with the receipt obtained upon payment of the prescribed 
examination fee ; if examination fee is applicable, on or before the closing date of applications in the notification, will 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2466
be issued admissions by the commissioner General of Examinations. A notification will be published by the Department 
of Excaminations sri Lanka in newspapers or in the departmental website as soon as the admissions are issued to 
candidates. If a candidate did not receive the admission even after 2 or 3 days after the notification, he/she should 
enquire the same to the Department of Examinations Sri Lanka as stated in the notification. When enquiring, it would 
be effective to submit a letter of request along with certified copies of the application and the receipt obtained upon 
payment of examination fees and the registered post receipt. if the candidate is residing out of colombo, it is essential 
to mention a fax number for the admission to be sent.
13. Complaints lodged later by candidates, who fail to fulfill the requirements stated in para 12 above, will not be entertained.
14. A candidate should prove his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of Examinations for each subject at the 
examination hall. any of following documents will be accepted for the purpose.
(i).   National identity card,
(ii).  a  valid passport,
(iii).  a  valid sri Lankan driving license.
Further, more the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering the face and the ears enabling the 
confirmation of their identity. Candidates, who refuse to prove their identity, will not be allowed in the examination hall. 
moreover, candidates should remain their face and ears uncovered from the moment they enter the examination hall until 
they leave the examination hall enabling the examination officials to identify the candidates.
15.  it has been decided to levy examination fees from examination candidates on the following basis. the receipt obtained 
upon payment of the respective examination fee to the credit of the Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations from any post/ Sub-post Office in the island should be affixed firmly from one end to the 
applicaiton in the relevant cage. (Keeping a copy of the receipt would be beneficial)
(a)  First attempt (Fees will not be levied for the whole examination or a part of the examination)
(b)  Later attempts
 For the whole examination   Rs. 1,200.00
 For one subject  Rs. 600.00
16. 
  I.  Issuance of an admission to a candidate shall not be deemed as him/her being qualified to appear for the examination.
II. Candidates will be subjected to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in 
relation to the conduct of the examination. He/she will be subjected to any penalty imposed by the  Commissioner 
General of Examinations; if aforesaid rules and regulations are violated.
17.  In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text shall 
prevail.
18.  The Secretary of the Ministry of Education reserves the right to determine on any matter not covered by this notification.
  
m. N. R aNaSiNghe ,
  secretary,
 ministry of Education.
ministry of Education, 
"isurupaya",
battaramulla,
20
th  september, 2023.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2467
sPEcimEN  aPPLicatioN  
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha ks,OdÍka i|yd jk m<uqjk ld¾hlaIu;d lvbï úNd.h - 2021 ^2023&
FiRSt eFFicieNcy BaR examiNatioN FoR oFFiceRS oF the SRi laNKa educatioN admiNiStRative SeRvice - 2021 (2023)
(title of the examination should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelop)
01.  i.   Name in full (in English capital Letters) : 
    (eg : HENAGE DON SHIRAL GAyANTHA GUNASEKARA)
   ...............................................................................................................................................................................
  ii. Last name with initials at the end (in English capital Letters) :
   (eg : GUNASEKARA  H.D.S.G)
   ...............................................................................................................................................................................
  iii. Name in full  (in sinhala/t amil) :
   ...............................................................................................................................................................................
02.  address : 
  i. address to which the admission should be posted (in English capital Letters) :
   ...............................................................................................................................................................................
  II. Official Address (In Sinhala/In Tamil) : ................................................................................................................
  iii. Private address (in sinhala/in tamil) : ................................................................................................................
03.  National identity card :
04.  Gender :   
                               male - 0
                               Female - 1
   
   (w rite the relevant number in the box)
    
05.  mobile Number -    
06.  Subjects taken should be clearly mentioned along with the Subject No. stated in the table under para 03 of the 
notification.
Subject Subject No.
(For Office use)
Language medium of the examination :
sinhala  -  2
tamil  -  3
English  -  4   (w rite the relevant number in the box)

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'09'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2023
2468
07.  date of birth :
   y ear :                              month:                date:
08.  designation : .................................................................................................................................................................
  
09.  Department/Zonal Education Office/Divisional Education Office/School) :
  .......................................................................................................................................................................................
10.  If appeared in the examination before, (entirely of partly) please mention the year, subject/ and medium appeared :
 year Subject  Medium
 ........................ .......................................... ........................................
 ........................ .......................................... ........................................
11.  details of the receipts paying the examination fees -
  (I). Post Office paid : .................................................................................................................
  (ii).  Receipt No. and the date : ..................................................................................................
  (iii). amount paid : ..................................................................................................................... 
  
12. i hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and accurate and i am eligible to appear for the exam in 
the language medium stated above and i adhere to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examination in relation to conducting the examination and releasing of results.
                                                    ..........................................................,
 signature of the applicant.
    date : ...................................................... 
  commissioner General of Examinations :
 i hereby certify that the candidate above-mentioned is eligible to appear for this examination and to appear in the 
language medium he/she has mentioned in the application.
prescribed fee has been paid and the receipt has been affixed above. (*)
date :  ..........................................................
 ..........................................................
 signature of the Head of the department.
 Desingnation and the official stamp
 
(*) strike off if examination fees are not applicable.
09 - 521
Affix the receipt here upon payment (Keep a copy of the receipt, only if applicable)
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.