

<!-- page 1 -->

1213 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .11.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2007
1213
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1215
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th November, 2007, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 26th October, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,522 _ 2007 ï¾åÉæ´Ú 02 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .11.02
No. 1,522 – FRIDAY ,  NOVEMBER 02, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .11.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2007
1214
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

1215 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .11.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2007
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
AMENDMENT
Limited  Examination  For  The  Recruitment  to  The  Class  II  Grade  II  of
Sri  Lanka  Planning  Service  -  2007
IT is hereby informed that, the closing date for receiving applications for the examination referred to in Para 7 (b) of the above notification,
published in the Part I (IIA) of the Gazette No.1513 dated 31.08.2007 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, is extended till 15th
November 2007.
P. B. JAYASUNDARA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
17th October, 2007,
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo.
11-212
MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE,  PUBLIC
SECURITY  LAW  AND ORDER
Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the
Post of Assistant Controller of Explosives - 2007
AN Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Post of
Assistant Controller of Explosives will be held by the commissioner
General of Examinations on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of
Defence, Public Security, Law and Order on or around the month of
January, 2008, and Applications will be called only from male
candidate as per the notification stated below.
Qualifications : Each candidate should be fulfilled the following
qualifications and satisfactory proofs should be produced in proof
of them.
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Educational qualifications.
1. For External Candidates :
Special Degree on Chemistry with a Class obtained from
a recognized University ; or
B.Sc Degree with the subject of Chemistry along with a
First Class or Second Upper Class obtained from a
recognized University;  or
Post Graduate Degree on Chemistry along with the B.Sc.
Degree with the subject of Chemistry obtained from a
recognized University; or
Chartered Member of the Institute of Chemistry.
2. For Internal Candidates :
Should be an Enforcement Officer serving in the Ministry
of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order, possessing
at least 10 years of experience in the field of explosives
under the Supervision of the Controller of Explosives
with  a satisfactory period of service of within an immediate
05 years along with a B. Sc. Degree obtained from a
recognized Unversity with the Chemistry as a subject.
(a)Should not be less than 20 years and not more than 30 years
of age as at 30.11.2007. (The upper age  limit will not apply
to those who are already in Public Service/Provincial Public
Service) Sound Constitution and of Excellent Moral Character
should be possessed to serve in any Part of the Island.
(b)The candidate should submit the following documents when
he was called to do so.
1. Birth Certificate,
2. Degree Certificate.
3. Two Testimonials.
4. Highest Educational Certificates - Passed in English/Tamil
Languages.
N.B. - Any of these documents or a copy of them(other
than the receipt obtained on the payment of examination
fee) should not be annexed along with the Application.
3. Terms of engagements and Service Conditions:
I. This post is Permanent, pensionable and should be con-
tributed to the Widow’s & Orphans’ fund.
II. Selected candidates who are not already in Public Service
will be subjected to a probationary period of 03 years.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .11.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2007
1216
III. Appointment of selected candidates who already hold
permanent and Pensionable Status in the Public Service
will be subjected to an Acting appointment for a period
of one year.
IV . During the period of probation, should acquire working
knowledge in Sinhala and among others of the confirmation
in the post will depend in passing Sinhala Proficiency
Test.
4. Salary & Allowances : Rs. 22,935-10x645x8x790-17x1050-
53555-Vide SLI/2006 of the Public Administration Circular No. 6/
2006 (Should pass the first efficiency Bar Examination within three
(03) years of from the dated of appointment)
5. Officers recruited for this post should pass the following
subjects of the Efficiency - Bar Examination prescribed for officers
of Class II/II of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
1. Establishment Code.
2. Financial Regulations.
3. Law
4. Second Language - Oral Test.
6. General conditions applicable to the appointments in the Public
Service stated in para II(a) of Section I of the Government Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka would be applicable
to this post.
7. Application forms and Examination fee :
(a) The fee for this examination will be Rs. 300. The receipt
received on the payment of relevant fee to the Kachcheri
or the Divisional Secretariat to be credited to subject (4)
of Sub-Head I of the Revenue Head - 6 prior to the closing
date of applications should be affixed firmly in  the relevant
cage of the Application. Retaining of a photo estate copy’s
of the receipt along with the application would be useful.
(b) Applications will not be acknowledged. As soon as the
Admission Cards for the Examination are issued to
candidates, it would be intimated through News paper
Notices. Candidates who do not receive Admission cards
should be furnished following particulars to the Secretary
of the Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law & Order,
No. 15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha, Colombo 03. at least 07
days prior to the date of examination.
1. Name of the Examination
2. Full name of the Candidate.
3. Address.
4. Date, Post Office and the registration Number of the
applications posted.
8. Appearing for the Examination.– Candidate should sit for the
Examination at the Examination Hall prescribed him by the
Commissioner General of Examinations. Candidate should submit
his duly attested Admission Card to the Supervisor of the Examination
on the date of Examination. This Examination will be conducted in
Colombo and candidates who sit for this Examination will not  be
paid travelling or any other expenses.
Note: Issuing of an Admission card to  a candidate to sit for the
examination should not be treated as an acceptance that he possesses
qualifications recognized for such Examination.
9. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be duly prepared according to the
Specimen appended to this Notice using both side of the
paper A4 (21cm x 29cm) size. Write sections 01-08 to
appear on first page.
(b) Duly completed applications should be sent by registered
Post to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Defence, Public
Security, Law and Order, No. 15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha,
Colombo 03, on or before 30th November, 2007. Open
Competitive Examination for recruitment to the post of
Assistant Controller of Explosives” should be written on
the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
Application.
(c) Applications from officers in Public Service and state
Corporation should be forwarded through their respective
Heads of Departments prior to the prescribed date.
(d) Applications which are not in conformity with the
specimen incomplete and inconsistent will be rejected
without any prior notification. Complaints made on the
loss or delay in post will not be considered.
(e) The Head of the Application should be written in both
Sinhala and English Language accordingly.
10. Indentity of the Candidate.– The candidate should prove his
own identity so as to the satisfaction of the supervisor at every
paper he sits.
Following documents are accepted in this regard.
1. Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the
Registrations of Persons.
2. Valid passport (within a period of 03 years issued
immediate prior to the date of Examination.
11. Furnishing of false information.-If it was disclosed that the
candidate is not possessed required qualifications to sit for the
examination, the Secretary to the Ministry of Defence, Public
Security, Law and Order have the authority to cancel his candidatrue
prior to the Examination, during the Examination or after the
Examination or any other occasion. If it was appeared that the
information furnished by a candidate are false, he is liable to be
dismissed from the service. Rules & Regulations stipulated in
Para(11a) of Section I of this Gazette should also be adhered.

<!-- page 5 -->

1217 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .11.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2007
12. Medium.– This Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English Medium.
(a)An Candidate should appear for this Examination in the
Medium he qualified.
(b)An Candidate should answer to all the question papers in
same language.
(c)No permission will be granted to alter the Medium at the
Examination.
13. Method of Examination.– A writing test with three subjects.
Part (a)
1. Comprehension - Two hour question - 100 Marks
Paper
2. Intelligence - One hour question - 100 Marks
Paper
3. Practical - Two hour question - 100 Marks
Chemistry Paper
Part (b)
Qualified candidates will be called for the Interview preparing the
Priority list according to this aggregated marks from among those
who obtained 40% or above marks to each question paper stipulated
in part (a).
14. Syllabus.– Subject No. 01 - Comprehension : - This question
paper consists of two parts. Part one is to write an Essay and a
precis. Part two is consist of a several texts prepared in order to test
the capability of understanding the candidate. Through this test,
candidates are instructed to express the meaning of an underlined
word in one sentence or to write analytical note on them or to select
the most appropriate expression in a group of alternative words.
(Two hour question paper).
Subject No.02 - Intelligence :- This is a paper consists of objective
type questions prepared with a view to measure the logistical analysis,
Omiticisum, Power of expression on case studies of the Candidates.
Subject No. 03. - Practical Chemistry :- This question paper is
prepared to test the knowledge on Geographical situation is Sri
Lanka, distribution of Mineral Resources, foundation on chemical
science, Composition and usage of Explosives, Explosives Act & the
timely amedments on it. (Two hour question paper)
15. Mode of Selection:
1. Candidates are selected on the merit acquired through the
Open Competitive Examination which will be conducted
in terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 15/90
of 09.03.1990. However, in the event of any difficulty
arisen on taking decision of the  exact number, The final
decision would  be determined by the Public Service Com-
mission.
2. Candidates selected from the Examination will be called
for an Interview to be held to check their suitability and
certificates. All the documents relevant to the particulars
given in the Application are to be produced for this
Interview. Marks will not be given in this context.
16. Completion of all the required qualifications prior to the
closing date of Applications by each & every candidate is compul-
sory.
17. The decision with regard to any problems arisen on a matter
not stated in this notification and the number of candidates to be
recruited by the Examination will  be taken by the Secretary to the
Ministry  of Defence, Public Security, Law & Order with the
concurrence of the public Service Commission and it would be the
final.
On order of Public Service Commission.
G
OTABAYA  RAJAPAKSA , RWP, RSP, Psc,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence, Public Security,
Law and Order.
Ministry of Defence,
Public Security, Law and Order,
15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha,
Colombo - 03.
Specimen Application Form
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment for the Post
of Assistant Controller of Explosives - 2007
For Office use only.
01. Medium of the Examination :
(Sinhala -2, Tamil -3, English-4) Write on the relevant cage.
02. In terms of the Gazette Notification, Indicate -
1, If you are an external candidate,
indicate - 2 if you are an Internal candidate.
03. Last name with initials :——————.
(Block letters in English( Eg. SILV A, A. B.)
04. National Indentity Card No.:
05. Address that Applications to be submitted :——————.
(In Block letters in English)
06. Civil Status:
(If married - 1, if Single -2, write on the relevant cage)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .11.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2007
1218
07. Ethnicity:
(Sinhala -1, Tamil -2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Others - 5,
write the relevant number on the cage)
08. i. Highest Educational Qualifications:
Degree/ Year Subjects Class/Pass University/
Diploma Institution
ii. Highest Examination Passed:
(a) In Sinhla
(b) In Tamil
(c) In English
09. I. Date  of Birth: Y ear Month Date
II. Age : Years Months Days
10. Particulars of previous Employments:
(If applicable)
Name of the Department/ Post Period Annual
Institution Held from to Salary
11. Receipt received on payment of Examination fee should be
affixed here firmly :
i. Number :—————.
ii. Date :—————.
iii.Office the receipt issued:————.
12. Particulars of Residents :
i. Divisional Secretariat Division (Residing):————.
ii. Grama Niladaree Division:—————.
iii.District and Since which date you have been residing in
that District :—————.
13. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
Application are true and accurate to the best of my  knowledge.
In terms of the conditions of this Examination, I am liable to be
cancelled the candidature prior to and after the Examination and
shall be dismissed if the inaccuracy is detected after the selection.
———————,
Candidate's Signature.
Date :——————.
14. Attestation of the Candidate’s Signature
I certify that Mr. ……………… Who submit this Application
is personally known by me and placed his Signature in the
presence of me on . ………………  200 . ………………
———————,
Signature of the Attester.
Date:—————.
Full Name of the Attester :——————.
Address & Designation :——————
The signature of the candidate should be attested by a Head of a
Government School or a Justice of the Peace or a Commissioner of
Oath or an Attorney-at-Law on an officer holds a permanent Post in
the Public Service who draws a combined salary of not less than Rs.
230700 annually.
15. Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institution (for
Internal candidates)
The candidate, Mr. …………………. is serving in this
Department/Institution. He holds a permanent pensionable Post.
He has earned all his increments during the last…………. years. He
has not been penalized for any disciplinary matters (other than
warning) and is not subject to any disciplinary action. I certify that
he can be released/cannot be released from the present Post if selected
him for the above Post.
————————,
Signature of the Head of the Department/
Institution/Authorizing Officer.
Date :—————.
Name :—————.
Designation :——————.
Department /Institution :—————.
11-193

<!-- page 7 -->

1219 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .11.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2007
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 3 1 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, who is responsible for
booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .11.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2007
1220
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132,  Maya Avenue, Kirulapone,
Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
The  Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
NOVEMBER 02.11.2007 Friday — 19.10.2007 Friday 12 noon
09.11.2007 Friday –– 26.10.2007 Friday 12 noon
16.11.2007 Friday –– 02.11.2007 Friday 12 noon
23.11.2007 Friday –– 09.11.2007 Friday 12 noon
30.11.2007 Friday –– 16.11.2007 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 07.12.2007 Friday — 23.11.2007 Friday 12 noon
14.12.2007 Friday –– 30.11.2007 Friday 12 noon
20.12.2007 Thursday –– 07.12.2007 Friday 12 noon
28.12.2007 Friday –– 14.12.2007 Friday 12 noon
JANUARY 04.01.2008 Friday — 20.12.2007 Thursday 12 noon
11.01.2008 Friday –– 28.12.2007 Friday 12 noon
18.01.2008 Friday –– 04.01.2008 Friday 12 noon
25.01.2008 Friday –– 11.01.2008 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI  LANKA.