

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
PrPrPrPrProoooovincial Councilvincial Councilvincial Councilvincial Councilvincial Council s Nots Nots Nots Nots Not ificatificatificatificatificat ionsionsionsionsions
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Proclamations made by the Hon. Governor
I,  K. C. Logeswaran, the Governor of Western Province by virtue of powers vested in me under Section 32 of Provincial
Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 do hereby notify that the Western Provincial Council Public Service Procedural Rules of
appointments, promotions and transfers, and consequential matters connected to the Western Provincial Council Public
Service, and described in the following Schedule shall come into effect from 01. 02. 2018.
Procedural rules of Western Provincial Council formulated in terms of Section 32 of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of
1987 and published in Gazette No. 1898 / 4 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on 19.01.2015 will be replaced on
the date these rules come into effect.
It is further notified that these Procedural Rules shall be implemented without prejudice to any measures taken under
procedural rules of Western Provincial Council formulated in terms of Section 32 of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 and
published in Gazette No. 1898 / 4 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on 19.01.2015 or, circulars issued to amend
any provision of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka   that have been put into operation
by the Western Province Public Service Commission or, by its delegatees by the date these rules come into effect.
K. C. L
OGESWARAN,
Governor.
Governor’s Secretariat of Western Province,
No. 109, Level 05,
Rotunda Tower,
Colombo 03.
24.01.2018
wxl 2055$13 – 2018 ckjdß ui 24 jeks nodod – 2018'01'24
No. 2055/13 – WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG3897 – 17 (01/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service (PPS)
Preamble
The following paragraphs describe the procedures to be followed by the PPSC and the officers delegated with powers by the
PPSC in discharging their duties and functions. All employees appointed by the PPSC and officers under delegated authority
and those released by the line ministries are required to familiarize themselves with the Constitution of Sri Lanka, particularly
the 13th Amendment, Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and consequential Amendments, and other relevant written
laws.  All employees of the Western Provincial Council shall abide by these Rules of Procedures.
Until such time Procedural Rules on disciplinary procedure are formulated in accordance with the provisions of
Section 32 of Provincial Council Act, No. 32 of 1987, procedures prescribed in Chapters XLVII and XLVIII of part II of the
Establishment Code shall mutatis mutandis be followed.
The Provincial Public Service of the Western Province Comprises
i. The permanent officers appointed by the authority of the PPSC; casual, temporary and substitute officers duly
appointed to Posts in the Provincial Public Service;
ii. Officers holding contract appointments in Posts in the Cadre;
iii. Officers belonging to the all island services and officers of line Ministries released for a specific period.
iv. Officers of Western Province Revenue Department which is a closed service.
Schedule
CHAPTER  I
1. The Governor
The Western Provincial Council is established in terms of Article 154 A(1) of Chapter XVII(A) of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. In terms of 154 (B) of the said Article, the office of Governor is established for
every Province and the Governor is appointed by the President by warrant under his hand. These Procedural Rules are
framed in pursuance of the powers provided for under Section 32 of Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
2. Powers
In terms of the provisions of Section 32 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 amended by the Provincial Councils
Act, No. 28 of 1990, the appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of officers of the Western
Provincial Public Service is vested in the Governor.
3. The Western Provincial Public Service Commission (PPSC) established in terms of Provisions of Section 33 of the
Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
4. The powers vested in the Governor in terms of Section 32 (1) of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 may be
delegated from time to time to the Western Provincial Public Service Commission, subject to provisions in Section 32 (2) of the
said act.
5. Whenever difficulty arises in the interpretation of these rules or their application; or there arises any inconsistency
between the words in the rules and the desired objectives or,  on matters not provided for in these procedural rules, the
Governor reserves himself the right of final determination.
6. The Governor shall have power to alter, vary or rescind an appointment, order of transfer, or dismissal or any other
order on a disciplinary matter made by the PPSC in terms of Section 33 (8) of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987;  and
an appointment, order of transfer or dismissal or any other order on a disciplinary matter made by an authority on whom
powers have been delegated in terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
3A
Answerability
7. The PPSC and the Authorities to whom powers have been delegated shall be answerable to the Governor in the
exercise of powers delegated and the functions assigned.
CHAPTER  II
Exercise of Delegated powers
8. Albeit the powers of the Governor have been delegated to the PPSC or to officers by the PPSC, the Governor, on
appeal or otherwise, shall have power to alter, vary or rescind an appointment, order of transfer or dismissal or any other order
on a disciplinary matter made by the PPSC or the relevant officer on whom the powers have been delegated by the PPSC.
Governor may institute appropriate procedures in this regard.
9. Acts of omission or commission by persons acting under delegated authority will expose him/her to disciplinary
action including making good loss caused by such commission or omission
10. (a) In terms of Section 32 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, the powers delegated to the Western
Provincial Public Service Commission by the Governor shall be exercised within the scope/limit of such
delegation. Any acts committed or decisions made in excess of the limit of delegation shall be null & void.
Issues relating to national or provincial policies should be referred to the Governor for a ruling and such
ruling should be given effect to without delay.
(b) In terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, the powers delegated to the
Chief Secretary or any officer by the PPSC shall be exercised within the scope/limit of such delegation. Acts
committed or decisions made in excess of the limit of delegation shall be null and void. The Chief Secretary
or the relevant officer to whom powers have been delegated shall be personally responsible for any harm or
loss caused by such acts or decisions. The PPSC shall exercise periodic supervision over its delegates in
regard to this matter.
11. Where powers have been delegated to the PPSC, such powers shall be exercised only by the PPSC as an entity, and
no action shall be taken presuming that powers have been delegated separately to the members of the PPSC. However, the
PPSC may if situation demands appoint sub committees of its members but the PPSC as an entire body should take responsibility
for the decisions. The PPSC is reminded of its responsibility to act in good faith, impartially, equitably, and in a transparent
manner.
12. Where powers have been delegated to a relevant officer in terms of the provisions set out in Section 4 of the
Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, the officer with delegated power shall exercise such powers in accordance
with the conditions imposed by the PPSC and instructions issued by the Governor.  Delegatees should act in good faith,
impartially, equitably, and in a transparent manner.
13. (i) Where problems arise in the exercise of powers delegated to the PPSC, clarifications and instructions shall be
obtained from the Governor, and where any problem arises regarding the exercise of powers delegated to an
officer in terms of the provisions in Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990,
clarifications or instructions shall be obtained, as the case may be, from the PPSC or the Governor as
appropriate.
  (ii) Whenever the PPSC or an officer acting under delegated authority is assailed by questions of national policy
or national standards such questions shall be referred to the Governor. Heads of departments and Secretaries
to Provincial Ministries should refer all directions from the line ministries to the Governor. It is only after the
Governor adopting such instructions for application to the Western Province can such instructions have
validity or force. Non compliance of this paragraph will be considered a serious violation and the PPSC shall
take remedial measures including withdrawal of delegation.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
14.    (i) In terms of Section 34 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987, any person who, otherwise than in the
course of such person’s lawful duty, directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever influences or attempts
to influence or interferes with any decision of the PPSC, or a member thereof, shall be guilty of an offence
and on conviction at a case heard in a High Court without the Jury, such person shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
  (ii) Even though the above provisions apply only to the PPSC, the officers who exercise  delegated powers
from the PPSC should forthwith bring to the notice of the PPSC any attempts to influence or interfere as
envisaged above, and seek directions of the PPSC. Direction of the PPSC is binding.
Chapter III
Appointment
15. In terms of Section 32 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, the powers of appointment, promotion,
transfer, dismissal and disciplinary control of officers of the Western Provincial Public Service are vested in the Governor.
16. ( a) The powers vested in the Governor in terms of section 32 (2) of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 may
be delegated to the PPSC.
(b) The Provincial Public Service Commission may delegate to the Chief Secretary, of Western Province or any
Officer of the Provincial Public Service of that province its powers of appointments, of offices of Provincial
Public Service subject to conditions.
17. In terms of Section 33(8) of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, the Governor shall have the power to alter,
vary or rescind any appointment, order of transfer or dismissal or any other order relating to a disciplinary matter made by the
Provincial Public Service Commission or by an officer on whom powers have been delegated in accordance with the provisions
in Section 4 of the Provincial Council (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990.
18. The Appointing Authority shall fill all vacancies in the Provincial Public Service by calling for applications by
advertisement in accordance with the Service Minute and/or Scheme of Recruitment approved by the Governor, except where
acting appointments are made, merely to cover duties in vacant posts.
19. A permanent appointment, an appointment on contract or in an acting capacity to attend to the duties of a post,
or on casual basis, or on the basis of substitute arrangement, shall be made only if the post exists within the approved cadre
of the relevant institution; has an approved Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment, and for which funds have been
provided in the current budget. Urgent appointments to meet emergency contingencies require approval of the Governor.
20. An appointment can be made only if a vacancy occurs in the approved cadre. A vacancy occurs only if a new post
is created or the services of the holder of a post retires, terminates on his will or is terminated by the appropriate authority.
No vacancy occurs if the holder of a post is on full-pay, half-pay or no-pay leave, or has been temporarily released for other
duties or under interdiction or is on leave preparatory to retirement. Provided, however, the Appointing Authority may make
an appointment to attend to the duties of a post or to act in a post for reasons of exigencies of service.
21. All appointments in the Provincial Public Service, inclusive of casual and substitute  appointments shall be made
in accordance with the approved Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment of the respective post.
22. The date of the letter of appointment or the date on which the officer assumes duties, whichever comes later, shall
be the effective date of the appointment. The order of the Governor is required in the event the assumption of duties was
delayed due to no fault of the officer. In such an event the officer should make an appeal to the Governor through the relevant
Head of the Department.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
5A
23. No new appointment shall be ante-dated.
24. No person shall be appointed to a post in the PPSC or employed under any designation on honorary or voluntary
capacity.
25. The PPSC reserves the right of grading and designating posts in the provincial public service lay down conditions
of service and determine scales of salary or wages within the approved salary structure.
CHAPTER  IV
Service Minutes & Schemes of Recruitment
26. There shall be a Service Minute and/or a scheme of recruitment for each approved post in the provincial public
service. Such Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment shall service contain qualifications for recruitment, method of
recruitment, salary scales, service conditions, methods of promotion and all other relevant information.
27. Draft Schemes of Recruitment shall be formulated in accordance with the standard format. Draft Schemes of
Recruitment and Service Minutes shall be submitted to the Chief Secretary by the Secretary to the relevant provincial
Ministry and then to the PPSC with the recommendations of the Chief Secretary. Such draft shall be forwarded along with a
schedule of proposed amendments. The Provincial Public Service Commission shall consider the Draft with recommendations
of the Chief Secretary and submit the same to the Governor along with its recommendations. The said Minute or the Scheme
of Recruitment shall come into force with effect from the date of approval of the Governor.
28. Where need arises to amend the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment, the schedule referred to above
shall include the reasons for such amendment, matters to be amended, and relevant paragraphs and texts etc. Further, the
draft of the amended Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment shall be prepared by incorporating the proposed amendments
and highlighting them by underlining.
29. The Governor shall have the power to approve or return for revisions or reject or revoke a Scheme of Recruitment
or Service Minute or the proposed amendments submitted by the Provincial Public Service Commission or the Chief Secretary.
Similarly, the Governor shall have the power to order the relevant authorities to formulate a Service Minute or Scheme of
Recruitment for a particular post or service in the Provincial Public Service or to amend any approved Service Minute or
Scheme of Recruitment, in consultation with the relevant authorities, or under his own initiative conforming to existing
national standards. Provisions of Public Administration circular 06/2006 shall be adhered to in respect of new formulations or
amendments.
CHAPTER  V
Persons not qualified for appointment to the Provincial Public Service
30. A person who has been in the Provincial Public Service of another province or in the Public Service or in a public
corporation or Authority or government owned company and has been compulsorily retired for general inefficiency or retired
as a merciful alternative to dismissal or retired as a punishment or who has been dismissed after a formal inquiry or who has
vacated his post is disqualified for appointment to the Western Provincial Public Service.
31. A person convicted by a court of law for an offence committed against the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka is disqualified to be appointed to the Provincial Public Service.
32. Any person convicted by a court of law in any criminal proceedings or convicted by a court of law after summary
inquiry in terms of Section 449 of the Criminal Procedure Code is disqualified for appointment to the Provincial Public Service.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
33. Any person who had been declared as bankrupt is disqualified to be appointed to the Provincial Public Service.
34. A person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or who does not have citizenship rights is disqualified for appointment
to the Provincial Public Service.
CHAPTER  VI
Terms and Conditions Governing Appointments
35. All officers of the Provincial Public Service shall hold posts on public trust. Every person who is appointed to a
post in the Provincial Public Service shall diligently discharge the duties of the post to which he is appointed for the benefit
of the Country and its People.
36. Every officer in the Provincial Public Service shall discharge his duties, responsibilities and obligations in
accordance with Government policy, rules and regulations enacted from time to time by the Governor and the Provincial
Public Service Commission in respect of the Provincial Public Service. Further, he shall be subject to the Establishments
Code, Financial Regulations, Provincial Financial Rules, Provisions in the Provincial Councils Act, other Government
Regulations applicable to Provincial Public Service, Circulars, Instructions, provisions in these Procedural Rules  and
amendments made thereto from time to time. Plea of ignorance of the law and the written law will not be entertained and
therefore it behoves officers to thoroughly familiarize themselves with the legal provisions.
37. (1) Every person who is appointed to a permanent and pensionable post in the Provincial Public Service shall
contribute to the Widows’ & Orphans’ Pension Scheme or to the Widowers’ & Orphans’ Pension Scheme as
the case may be. The amount of contribution shall be as declared by the government from time to time.
(2) Every person holding a permanent but not pensionable post shall contribute to the Public Service
Provident Fund.  The amount of contribution shall be as declared by the Government from time to time.
38. An officer of the Provincial Public Service shall furnish a security deposit as per the Public Officers’ Security
Ordinance, in such sum as decided upon by the Head of Department.
39. An officer appointed to the Provincial Public Service is bound to serve in any part of the Western Province.
40. Every officer appointed on permanent or contract basis to a post in the Provincial Public Service shall be certified
by a medical examination that he is physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Western Province.
41. This medical examination shall be held in a government hospital in such manner as decided upon by the Director
General of Health Services.
42. Every person appointed to a post in the Provincial Public Service, shall make and subscribe or take and subscribe
the affirmation or the oath in terms of Schedules 4 & 7 of the Constitution.
43. Every officer appointed to a post in the Provincial Public Service shall acquire proficiency in Sinhala, Tamil and
English in such manner as determined by government policy.
44. An officer of the Provincial Public Service who receives monthly salary and who wishes to resign his post must,
unless otherwise stated in his letter of appointment, give at least one calendar month’s notice in writing to the Appointing
Authority in accordance with these rules. If the Appointing Authority agrees he may pay a sum equivalent to a month’s
salary to the Provincial Council or Local Government Institution in view of one month calendar notice and resign his post.
However, a resignation of an officer of the Provincial Public Service will come into effect only after the written intimation of
the acceptance of the resignation by the Appointing Authority.

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
7A
45. The Appointing Authority may terminate the appointment of a casual officer and substitute without notice.
46. When the Appointing Authority intends to terminate, in accordance with the conditions given in the letter of
appointment, the appointment of a monthly paid officer who is not confirmed in the Provincial Public Service, he must be
given a month’s notice.
47. Where it is duly established at any time after the assumption of duties that an officer has been appointed to a post
in the provincial public service on false and erroneous information or documents submitted by that officer to the Appointing
Authority or any other relevant Authority, such appointment shall forthwith be treated as null and void and the appointment
revoked. Such officer should given due notice of the allegation and an opportunity afforded to explain. If it is established that
the appointment has been received on false and erroneous documents, action shall also be taken in terms of the provisions
in the Penal Code in this connection.
CHAPTER  VII
Procedure relating to Appointments
48. In case of appointment of an officer belonging to the All Island Services to a post in the Provincial Public Service,
appointment shall be made by the appropriate officer after intimation to the Governor.
49. Appointments and promotions within the grades shall be done by the PPSC in terms of the relevant Schemes of
Recruitment and Service Minutes, in terms of the delegation of power by the Governor.
50. Appointment, selection and promotion of officers to posts shall be done by the Governor, Western Province
Public Service Commission and other appointing authorities under delegated authority in terms of the Service Minutes and
Schemes of Recruitment.
51. Where a vacancy occurs in a post in the Provincial Public Service or where such a post is created anew, the Heads
of Department shall report such fact to the Appointing Authority of relevant service or post. Also, he shall mention whether
or not he recommends the appointment of an officer of the Provincial Public Service to that post.
52. On receipts of document in terms of Section 51, the Appointing Authority having satisfied himself that the
relevant examinations and interviews have been held in accordance with the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment,
where relevant in accordance with the approved marking scheme and having considered the recommendations of the
interview board, if there are any, shall select a person/persons on the order of merit of marks obtained at the examination and/
or interview, in compliance with the provisions of the Scheme of Recruitment. A formal letter of appointment shall be issued
by the Appointing Authority as per Appendix 01 with changes where necessary.
53.    (a) When appointing the officers belonging to the All Island Services to the posts in the Provincial Public
Service, those officers shall be issued a formal letter of appointment by the relevant Authorities as in
annex 2.
(b) Performing duties in post will not be valid or lawful unless a letter of appointment is issued by the appointing
authority of the Western Provincial Public Service.
 (c) If the appointing authority of the Western Provincial Public Service decides that the service of an officer of
All Island Service is not required any longer that Officer should be released to the Secretary, Ministry of
Public Administration or to the relevant line ministry.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
General Conditions relating to Appointment
54. The Appointing Authority shall appoint Boards of Interview and make appointments in accordance with the
provisions of the Service Minutes or the Schemes of Recruitment.
55. (1) Unless otherwise provided for in the Scheme of Recruitment, a board of interview shall have at least three
members including the Chairperson who shall be an officer of the provincial public service. However, the
maximum number of members in a board of interview shall be limited to five. Unless otherwise provided for
in the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment, at least one member of the board of interview shall be
from a Ministry or Department which is outside the Ministry or Department where the vacancy occurs.
Similarly at least one female officer shall be appointed to a board of interview whenever possible.
Nevertheless, a public officer or an officer of the provincial public service of another province may be
appointed as a member of the board of interview where necessary.
(2) However, when selections are made for a post in the Western Provincial Council Public Service through an
interview by the Public Service Commission, the representative of the Province on the Interview Board shall
be the Secretary to the Governor.
56. Unless otherwise provided for in the Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment the number of applicants to be
called for the interview where applicable shall be determined by the Appointing Authority in order of the marks obtained by
them at the written examination and/or the trade test, as the case may be, and the number of vacancies.
57. Where marks are allocated at the interview the Marking Scheme shall be included in the advertisement calling for
applications to fill the vacancies.
58. Where selections are made only through an interview or an interview and a trade test such interview shall be
structured and the Marking Schemes of the interview and the trade test shall be included in the advertisement calling for
applications for the post.
59. The board of interview shall be provided with the following documents to carry out its functions:
(i) Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment.
(ii) Advertisement calling for applications.
(iii) Schedule of Interview with Summary of Qualifications.
(iv) Number called for the interview.
(v) If it is a structured interview, the Marking Scheme approved by the Appointing Authority and other relevant
documents
60. Every applicant shall be interviewed by a plenary session of the board of interview.  No person who is not a
member of the Board of Interview shall be allowed to participate in its sessions.  In recording marks at the interview, a carbon
pen or a pen with indelible ink shall be used and not pencils. Every member of the interview board shall be present at all times
during the interview.
61. Immediately after the interview is over, the board of interview shall prepare a merit list in order of the marks
obtained by the applicants; include it in the schedules of interview, and certified. Members of the board of interview shall
sign each page of such schedules.
62. Where an interview has to be held to allocate marks after a written examination and/or a trade test, marks obtained
by the applicants at the written examination and/or the trade test shall not be made available to the board of interview. The
results of a written examination and/or the trade test shall not be publicized for whatever reason until the Appointing
Authority takes a final decision regarding the appointments. Its confidentiality shall be preserved to the utmost.

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
9A
63. Where the interview is not structured it should be held only for the purpose of verifying the certificates of the
applicants for confirmation of their qualifications. A properly constituted Board of Interview shall examine records including
personal files.
64. The Appointing Authority shall take action to draw the attention of the members of the respective boards of
interview to these rules before an interview or trade test is held.
65. Where appointments are made on the order of merit and where there are several applicants who had obtained
equal marks for the last vacancy or vacancies, the final decision to fill the vacancy or vacancies on the results of the interview,
the written test or the professional test, as the case may be, rests with the Appointing Authority.
66. Where recruitment is done only on the results of a competitive examination, appointment shall be made in order
of merit of the marks obtained by the applicants at the competitive examination.
67. Where appointments are to be made on the results of written test, interview and trade test the Appointing
Authority shall aggregate the marks obtained by each of the applicants at the written test, the interview and the trade test and
make appointments in order of merit.
Procedure to be followed after Appointment
68. A person who had received a letter of appointment issued by the Appointing Authority appointing him to a
particular post in the provincial public service shall within fourteen days inform the Appointing Authority in writing as per
Appendix 03 whether or not he accepts the post subject to the conditions mentioned in the letter of appointment.
69. It shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of the Department
or Head of the Institution to ascertain the identity of the person who accepts the appointment in accordance with the letter
of appointment.
70. The appointee within one month of his appointment shall make the affirmation or take the oath on the form set out
in Schedules 04 and 07 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka before, as the case may be, the
Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of Department or Head of Institution. It shall be the responsibility
of such authorities to make arrangements for the appointee to make the affirmation or take the oath. The appointment of a
person, who fails to make affirmation or take oaths, during the stipulated period, shall cease at the expiry of such period, if  the
delay is attributable to the appointee.
71. The appointee to the provincial public service, on the first day itself of assuming duties shall hand over a letter
as per Appendix 04 confirming that he reported for service to, as the case may be, the Appointing Authority or the Administrative
Authority or the Head of Department or Head of Institution.
72. The appointee to the provincial public service, on assuming duties shall hand over the following documents to,
as the case may be, the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of Department or Head of Institution:
(i) Certified copy of the National Identity Card.
(ii) Birth Certificate.
(iii) Originals and a set of photo copies confirming basic educational qualifications, any other academic and
professional qualifications. (After verifying the photo copies with the originals the relevant authority shall
certify and sign that the photo copies are those of the originals and the officer shall certify and sign that
those photo copies are copies of genuine certificates. The photo copies shall then be retained by the
authority and the originals returned to the officer.)

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
(iv) Marriage Certificate, if married, Birth Certificate of spouse, copies of Birth Certificates of children, if any.
(v) Service Agreement on Form General 160
(vi) Declaration of Assets on Form General 261
(vii) Declaration of Assets & Liabilities in terms of the Declaration of Assets & Liabilities Act, No. 01 of 1975 of the
National State Assembly, amended by Act, No. 77 of 1988
(viii) Address, telephone number and e-mail address (if available) of permanent and temporary residence.
73. After an appointee reports for duty, the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of Department
or Head of Institution, as the case may be, shall take action to open up a personal file for the officer containing the documents
referred to at Section 72 above and the documents referred to below in this Section and maintain it up to date.
(i) Copy of the Letter of Appointment.
(ii) Oath taken by the relevant officers in terms of Schedule 4 and 7 of the Constitution
(iii) The letter confirming that the relevant officer has assumed duties in the relevant post.
(iv) History Sheet.
(v) Copy of declaration under the Widows’ & Orphans’ Pension Scheme or the Widowers’ & Orphans’ Pension
Scheme, as applicable.
(vi) Certified copy of the certificate of furnishing security, if required on the nature of the appointment.
(vii) Medical Report on Form Health 169.
(viii) A passport size copy of the officer’s photo should be pasted on the right hand corner of the copy of the letter
of appointment.
74. Once the officer has reported for duty the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of Department
or Head of Institution shall attach the officer to a unit or branch in his office, or another office or station under him. Similarly,
the Head of the particular office shall without delay hand over the duty list to the officer in writing.
75. Once an officer of the provincial public service has reported for service the relevant Authority shall inform the
Auditor General that the officer has assumed duties.
76. Where the publication of the appointment of an officer to a particular service or post in the provincial public
service in the government Gazette is a legal requirement, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to take
prompt action to publish such  appointment in the government Gazette.
77. Once an officer of the provincial public service has been assigned duties, the Appointing Authority or
Administrative Authority or Head of Department or Head of Institution shall provide him with training before a year of the
date of appointment or based on the need so that his services could be obtained more productively and efficiently. Where
training is mentioned in any Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment, the training shall be conducted in such manner as to
meet the requirements mentioned therein. It shall also be the responsibility of the officer to duly participate in such training
programmes.

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
11A
78. The Medical Report to be furnished by a new entrant to the provincial public service shall be obtained from a
District Medical Officer of a government hospital and shall be forwarded to the Appointing Authority/Administrative Authority/
Head of Institution within 03 months of the appointment. It shall also be the responsibility of the relevant Authority to obtain
this Medical Report within the stipulated period.
79. (1) Where an officer had been declared physically or mentally unfit for provincial public service after a medical
examination, the Administrative Authority/Head of Institution shall report such fact to the Appointing
Authority of the officer concerned without any delay as soon as the report indicating such fact is received
from the Director General of Health Services. Accordingly, the Appointing Authority shall take action to
terminate the appointment of such officer.
(2) Where the Director General of Health Services recommends that the officer referred to the Medical Board is
fit for work after medical examination, but yet the officer is found to be unfit by the Supervising officer, the
Supervising officer or the Head of the Department should forward a monthly report to the appointing
authority on the performance of the officer.  The appointing authority after expiry or 6 months, considering
the reports received, should determine whether the officer be kept in service or be retired for inefficiency.  A
report should be sent to the appropriate authority for further action.
Concessions to Ex-servicemen
80. Ex-servicemen of the Army, Navy and Air Force, who are not over 50 years of age, seeking appointment in the
provincial public service shall be given the following concessions:
i. Age Limit
If an ex-serviceman falls within the maximum age limit of a post to which he seeks appointment after the period
of his service in an armed service is subtracted from his age he shall be treated as falling within the prescribed
age limit.
ii. Educational Qualifications
If he has obtained the next lower educational level of the minimum educational qualifications prescribed in the
relevant Service Minute/Scheme of Recruitment for the post, other than a post for which a degree from a
recognized university has been prescribed as educational qualifications, he shall be treated as having the
prescribed educational qualifications.
iii. T echnical and Professional qualifications
An ex-serviceman who has gained skills and experience working in relevant technical units of armed services
shall be treated as having the required technical and professional qualifications.
CHAPTER VIII
Period of Probation, Period of Acting and Confirmation of Appointment
81. The Appointing Authority shall subject every officer appointed to a permanent post in the provincial public
service to a probation period of three years.
82. An officer holding a permanent post in the provincial public service when appointed to another permanent post
in the provincial public service shall be subject to an acting period of one year.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
83. An officer of the provincial public service appointed subject to a period of probation or acting shall prove his
suitability for provincial public service by diligently fulfilling during such period the obligations and responsibilities imposed
on him by his letter of appointment, good conduct and efficient service.
84. Where during his period of probation, he shows any tendencies which render doubtful his suitability for permanent
retention, he should at once be warned and given such assistances as may be possible to correct his failings by the
Administrative Authority. Any admonition administered for any serious act or omission or any fault of conduct or character
which, if persisted in, may prevent his confirmation, should be communicated to him in writing and acknowledgement
obtained. Such acknowledgement shall be conclusive proof of the fact that the officer was warned of his failings and given
an opportunity for improvement.
85. It shall be the duty of the Appointing Authority to terminate the services of an officer on probation where the
relevant Administrative Authority reports that specific instances of misconduct cannot be urged against the officers but
whose temperament, behavioral pattern and other defects render him unsuitable for further retention in the provincial public
service. In such an instance, the Appointing Authority shall ensure that all reasons which led to such a decision are recorded
in detail in the relevant file and all factors that support his decision are kept secured. The letter of termination shall be as per
Appendix 6 with changes where necessary.
86. The Head of the Department shall prepare at the end of first and second year of probation a Review Report as per
Appendix 05. On receipt of each of the report it should be carefully considered and where necessary he should be warned of
any short comings. The final Review Report together with first and second year report should be submitted to the Appointing
Authority at least 3 months prior to the expiry of the probationary period. Before the expiry of the period of probation all three
reports should be taken into consideration by the Appointing Authority and an order be made either confirming or extending
the period of probation. The officer concerned should be informed of the decision in each case.
87. Where an inquiry into an irregularity committed by an officer on probation cannot be completed before the expiry
of the period of probation, his probationary appointment should be terminated or the period of probation extended taking
into consideration the circumstances of the case.
88. If the Appointing Authority decides that the officer be given some time to improve his shortcomings his period
of probation may be extended by one year at a time subject to a maximum period of three years and defer the officer’s
increment.
89. At the end of each extended period of probation the Administrative Authority shall prepare a Review Report as
per Appendix 05. Where such report reveals deficiencies that may prevent his suitability for confirmation in his post, it shall
be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to extend the period of probation or terminate the appointment of the officer
subject to Section 87 and 88 above. In such an instance, the relevant Authority shall ensure that all reasons which led to such
a decision are recorded in detail in the relevant file and all factors that support his decision are kept secured.
90. Where an officer confirmed in a permanent post in the provincial public service is appointed to another permanent
post in the provincial public service subject to an acting period of one year, the Administrative Authority shall prepare a
Review Report as per Appendix 05.
91. Where such Review Report reveals any deficiencies that might prevent the above officer’s suitability for
confirmation in his post such fact must be forthwith communicated to the officer in writing and timely guidance given by the
immediate Administrative Head, and the Appointing Authority shall defer the officer’s increment and extend his period of
acting by one year at a time subject to a maximum period of three years.

<!-- page 13 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
13A
92. Where at the end of the each extended period the officer shows no progress in accordance with the Review Reports
prepared by the Administrative Authority as per Appendix 05, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to
extend the period of probation or terminate the appointment of the officer subject to the above section and in the event of
termination of appointment revert him to his former post, in the event such post is no longer vacant appoint on supernumerary
basis. In such an instance, the Appointing Authority shall ensure that all reasons which led to such a decision are recorded in
detail in the relevant file and all factors that support his decision are kept secured. Letter of termination shall be as per
Appendix 7.
93. The Appointing Authority or an authority on whom powers have been duly delegated shall ensure that an officer
on probation or acting, as the case may be, is confirmed on completion of the period of probation or acting or his period of
probation or acting is extended or his appointment is terminated. If his period of probation had been extended on grounds that
were within his control, his salary increment shall invariably be deferred until he is confirmed in his post. All such decisions,
whatever, shall be communicated to the officer in writing by the Appointing Authority.
94. Where all requirements have been fulfilled on the due date, the confirmation of an officer of the provincial public
service in a permanent post will become effective only after the Appointing Authority issues a formal letter conveying such
fact. Until such a letter has been issued the officer of the provincial public service shall be deemed as not having been
confirmed in his appointment. In order to avoid any hardship that may be caused to the officer by the delay in issuing a letter
even after the fulfillment of all requirements, the relevant Appointing Authority shall be mindful of the fact that such letters
should be issued duly and without delay. In fulfilling this task, it shall be the responsibility of the immediate Administrative
Authority to duly submit all the relevant documents to the Appointing Authority.
95. Where an officer of the provincial public service had been unable to obtain qualifications during the prescribed
period for confirmation in his appointment owing to reasons beyond his control, the Appointing Authority may extend his
probation by a reasonable period of time. It shall be the duty of the officer to obtain the required qualifications for confirmation
in his appointment during the extended length of time. In such an instance, the officer shall be confirmed in his appointment in
such manner that it will have no adverse effect on his seniority and salary increments. Provided, however, that the Appointing
Authority shall terminate his appointment if the officer fails to obtain the required qualifications during the extended period of
probation owing to his negligence or inattention.
96. Where an officer of the provincial public service fails to qualify for confirmation at the proper time, that is within the
initial period of probation or acting period, for reasons within his control, but qualifies for confirmation during an extension of
the period of probation or acting granted to him, the salary increment falling due after the expiry of the initial period of
probation will be deferred by the length of time taken in excess of the initial period allowed to qualify , he shall be confirmed in
his appointment with effect from the date of his appointment and seniority in his grade or service will be determined by the date
on which he qualified for confirmation.
97. The confirmation of an officer on probation or acting in a permanent appointment in the provincial public service
shall become effective from the date of his appointment to the post. However, he shall have no claim whatsoever for salary
increments deferred owing to his lapses.
CHAPTER  IX
Appointment to act in a post or attend to the duties of a post
98.  An officer of the provincial public service may be appointed to act in a particular post only under the following
circumstances:–
i. To bear the responsibilities and perform the work of a particular post in an approved cadre of a ministry,
department or institution under the purview of the provincial council the substantive holder of which is away
from work for a particular length of time with due approval or;

<!-- page 14 -->

14A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
ii. To bear the responsibilities and perform the work of a particular vacant post in an approved cadre of a ministry,
department or institution under the purview of the provincial council until such time the Appointing Authority
makes a permanent appointment to fill the vacancy.
99. The authority for making an appointment to act in a post or to attend to the duties of a post lies solely with the
Appointing Authority duly delegated for making appointments to the relevant post.
100. Only an officer of the provincial public service who is confirmed in his substantive post serving in a comparable
post or a post immediately below it and has fulfilled all the qualifications stipulated in the approved Service Minute or the
Scheme of Recruitment of the relevant post can be appointed to act.
101. An acting appointment is made for the performance of, as the case may be, the work of a post on full-time basis
or in addition to the work of a post the relevant officer already holds.
102. An officer holding an acting appointment shall have no claim for the salary scale of the post on a permanent
basis by virtue of the fact that he did act in the post.
103. Where no officer of the provincial public service qualified for appointment in terms of Section 100 above to act
in a vacant post in an approved cadre is available, the most suitable officer of the provincial public service may be appointed
to attend to the duties of the post by the Appointing Authority duly authorized in this regard.
104. Any allowance and privilege attached to a particular post may be enjoyed by an officer of the provincial public
service acting or attending to the duties in such post during the period of acting or the period of attending to the duties of
the post. He shall have no claim for such allowance or privilege when the acting appointment or period of attending to the
duties is terminated.
105. An officer in the provincial public service can be appointed to act in a particular post or attend to the duties of
a particular post only if that post is either a superior post or comparable post to the post presently held by that officer.
106. Where selection is made for appointment to a post no public officer shall be awarded special entitlement, special
advantage under Service Minute / Scheme of Recruitment or additional marks solely on the basis of his having acted or
attended duties in that particular post.
CHAPTER  X
Efficiency Bar
107. Efficiency Bar/Bars shall be conducted, as necessary, for officers recruited to the provincial public service. Such
requirement shall be mentioned in the letter of appointment.
108. An officer of the provincial public service shall fulfill the requirements of the Efficiency Bar/Bars for confirmation
of the appointment or promotion to a higher post or grade in the respective service or to pass over a specific salary step.
109. Efficiency Bar examinations shall be conducted within definitive time limits, as prescribed by the designated
authority in accordance with the Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment. In the event that the Service Minute or Scheme
of Recruitment does not specify the authority who should conduct the Efficiency Bar examinations, then, the Efficiency Bar
examinations shall be conducted by the Appointing Authority or officer designated by the Appointing Authority.
110. Where an officer of the provincial public service has acquired the necessary qualifications to pass the Efficiency
Bar, the Appointing Authority shall issue to such officer without delay a letter as per Appendix 08 that he has passed the
Efficiency Bar. Further, a photo copy of that letter shall be attached to the relevant form required for the approval of the next
salary increment of such officer by the appropriate Authority.

<!-- page 15 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
15A
111. Where an officer of the provincial public service fails to pass an Efficiency Bar on the due date, the Administrative
Authority or the Appointing Authority, as the case may be, shall defer the increment of such officer with effect from that date
and formally inform the officer of such fact.
112. The Appointing Authority may allow an officer who has failed to pass the Efficiency Bar on the due date one
year extension at a time subject to a maximum period of three years to qualify himself.   However it shall not affect the decision
taken to defer the salary increment of the Public Officer.
113. Where an officer of the provincial public service whose salary increment has been deferred in terms of Section
112 above fails to qualify himself to pass the Efficiency Bar within a period of three years from the date of deferment of his
salary increment, his service shall stand terminated on grounds of inefficiency with effect from the last day of finishing the
three years period.
114. Provided, however, that if the officer of the provincial public service has been confirmed in his service and the
officer has acquired pensionable status by that time he shall be retired on grounds of inefficiency with effect from the said
date. In such a situation the officer shall draw his pension when he reaches the optional age of retirement and in accordance
with the Minute on Pension.
115.  Where the service of an officer of the provincial public service stands terminated in terms of Section 114 above,
the Appointing Authority shall issue a letter as per appendix 09.
CHAPTER  XI
Seniority
116. The seniority of officers of the provincial public service holding posts of equal status in a class or grade of a
particular service or in a ministry, department or institution belonging to the provincial public service shall be determined
based on the dates on which those officers assumed duties in the respective posts.
117. Where more than one officer of the provincial public service had assumed duties on a particular  day  their
seniority  shall  be  determined in the  order  of cumulative total of marks obtained by them at the written and trade tests and
interviews held for recruitment, in accordance with the Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment. Where there are officers
who had obtained equal marks, all of them shall be treated as having the same seniority.
118. Where the period of probation or acting of an officer of the provincial public service has been extended owing
to unsatisfactory work, conduct and attendance, his seniority in class/grade shall be readjusted by subtracting a period of
time equal to the period of time extended.
119. Where an officer of the provincial public service has failed to pass the Efficiency Bar examination on the due
date despite the fact that circumstances were within his control, his seniority shall be readjusted by subtracting the additional
period of time taken by the officer to pass the Efficiency Bar.
120. Where a specific disciplinary order to reduce the seniority or any other disciplinary order that will affect
seniority of an officer has been made by the Disciplinary Authority the seniority of the officer shall be readjusted in terms of
the respective disciplinary order.
121. Where an officer of the provincial public service has been temporarily released from the provincial public service
on his request for a post in a university or a government corporation or Authority or a government project or a company
owned by the government or of which the government holds shares, or in some other institution as agreed upon by the
Provincial Public Service Commission, such period shall not be considered as part of his period of service for the purpose of
deciding his seniority.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
122. Where an officer of the provincial public service has availed no-pay leave on his request for a job outside the
provincial public service such period shall not be considered as part of his period of service for the purpose of deciding his
seniority.
123. Where an officer of the provincial public service appointed to another post reverts or reverted to his former post,
during the acting period, for reasons other than disciplinary, his period of service in that post shall be treated as part of t he
service in deciding his seniority in his former post.
124. The manner in which the seniority of an officer absorbed from one service to another is to be determined shall
be stated lucidly and clearly in the decision taken for his absorption.
125. The manner in which the seniority of the relevant officer is to be determined when two or more services are
amalgamated shall be stated lucidly and clearly in the decision taken for such amalgamation.
126. The manner in which the seniority of the relevant officer is to be determined when posts of equal status in the
same institution or various institutions are amalgamated shall be stated lucidly and clearly in the decision taken for such
amalgamation.
127. Where the Supreme Court has made an order, relating to the seniority of an officer of the provincial public
service his seniority shall be determined in accordance with that order. Also, in the event that an officer of a particular service
who has been released from a provincial public service of another province takes up a post in this provincial public service,
the seniority of such officer shall be placed at the end of the existing seniority list for the relevant Class or Grade pertaining
to the relevant service in this provincial public service.
128. Where an officer of the provincial public service on whom a vacation of post notice has been issued by the
respective authority deeming him to have vacated his post is reinstated after considering his explanation or an appeal
submitted by him, his seniority shall be determined in terms of the conditions stated in the decision for reinstatement.
CHAPTER XII
Release of an Officer of the Provincial Public Service temporarily or permanently from the Provincial Public Service
129. The instances an officer of the provincial public service who is confirmed in his post may be released by the
Appointing Authority on the request of the officer or on the need of the relevant service with the consent of the officer, shall
be as follows:-
i. to the Public Service
ii. to another post of the Provincial Public Service of other province
iii. to a post in the Presidential Secretariat
iv. to a post in the staff of the Parliament of Sri Lanka
v. to a post in the approved personal staff of a minister of the Provincial Council
vi. for a service in a V olunteer Force
vii. for service in a Presidential Commission appointed by the President under the Commission of Inquiry Act
viii. to a post in a University in Sri Lanka recognized by the University Grant Commission
ix. to a post in a Public Corporation or Authority
x . to a post in a Government Project
xi. to a post in a company owned by the Government
xii. to a post of a statutory institution of the Western Provincial Council
xiii. to a post in a company of which the Government holds more than 50% of shares and controlling interest
xiv . for work in a trade union in the public sector with the approved number of members and which is in conformity
with the provisions in Para. 4 of Chapter XXV of the Establishments Code
xv . for work in a welfare union in the public sector with the approved number of members

<!-- page 17 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
17A
130. Where the officer requests for release at his own instance he shall apply to the Appointing Authority as per
Appendix 10 and if the release is done on the needs of the Government, the Secretary to the Ministry to which the officer is
proposed to be released shall make the application as per Appendix 11 along with a letter of consent from the officer. The
Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration shall be the relevant Secretary for the purpose of the Sections other than Section
129 (ii), 129 (v) and 129 (xii) while the Western Provincial Chief Secretary shall be the relevant Secretary for the purpose of
Section 129 (ii), 129 (v) and 129 (xii).
131. The Appointing Authority shall have the power to reject a request made in terms of Section 130 in any one of the
following instances:
i. Where the relevant officer is not confirmed in the Provincial Public Service,
ii. Where the relevant officer has not passed the required Departmental examinations or Efficiency Bars which
the officer should have passed by the date he requests for  release from the provincial public service,
iii. Where the officer is over 57 years of age,
iv. Where disciplinary action against the officer is in progress or is contemplated against him,
v. Where there is legal proceedings against the officer relating to any matter connected with the Government,
vi. Where the officer has been provided with special training to facilitate the performance of the functions of the
post he holds,
vii. Where there is a legal agreement binding the officer of the provincial public service for service to the Government
or the Provincial Council for a pending period,
viii. Where the release of the officer of the provincial public service will adversely affect the performance of duties
in the Department or institution in which the officer now working,
ix. Where no arrangements have been made to settle in full or in instalments the balance of a loan obtained by the
officer from the provincial council, in accordance with the relevant Regulations and Circular instructions,
x . Where there is an outstanding amount of money due to the Provincial Council from the officer other than the
unsettled loans,
xi. Where he has not absolved the Provincial Council of all responsibilities regarding any relief for privilege
granted to him by a third party under the Provincial Council securities when he was working as an officer of
the provincial public service.
xii. Where he has entered into a surety agreement or any such similar bond with the Provincial Council and where
a new surety has not entered into a surety agreement with the Provincial Council,
xiii. Where the consent of the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the department to which   the officer of the
provincial public service is attached has not been received.
132. The provisions in Section 131 above shall be subject to the following exceptions:
i. Notwithstanding the provision in Sub section VI of 131 above, if an officer who has received specialized
training is requested to be released for a post where his specialized training could be more productively
utilized; such training shall not be an impediment for his release.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
ii. Notwithstanding Sub Section IX of 131 above, if the relevant Head of the Institution to which the officer of the
provincial public service is to be released has given an undertaking in writing to recover the balance of the loan
due to the Provincial Council, in instalments from the Public Officer and remit same to the relevant Head of the
Department, such balance of a loan shall not be an impediment for his release.
133. The period for which the Appointing Authority may release an officer of the  provincial   public service shall be as
follows:
i. Permanent basis or for a definite period on temporary basis to a post in a volunteer force or a post in the staff
of the Parliament of Sri Lanka,
ii. For a period requested by a Commission appointed by the President under the Commissions of Inquiry Act,
iii. Permanent basis or for a period of 02 years on temporary basis to a University or Public Corporation; or
government project or a company owned by the Government or a company of which Government holds more
than 50% shares and controlling interest,
iv. Release on permanent basis an officer who does not belong to the All Island Services for the provincial public
service of another province,
v. For service in a trade union or in a welfare union in the public sector or in the provincial public service registered
by the Registrar of Trade Unions for a period of 02 years or for the period he holds the post in the respective
union, whichever is less.
134. Where it is found necessary to extend the temporary period of release in any of the instances mentioned in
Section 133 above, the Appointing Authority shall forward such request to the Provincial Public Service Commission for
approval at least 03 months before the end of the period together with the letter of consent of the officer, written request of the
respective Head of Institution and the recommendation of the Appointing Authority where the Provincial Public Service
Commission is not the Appointing Authority. Where the Provincial Public Service Commission is the Appointing Authority
such recommendation shall be given by the Secretary to the Ministry and Head of the Department relating to the substantive
post of the officer. However, in any of the instances mentioned in Section 133 above, the period that an officer could be
temporarily released from the provincial public service during his entire career shall be subject to a maximum of 05 years.
135. Where an officer of the provincial public service has been temporarily released to an outside post from the
provincial public service in terms of Section 129 on the need of the Government he shall be entitled to the benefits as declared
under Section 10 (a) of the Minutes on Pension. However, he shall be deemed to have been on no-pay leave during the period.
136. The provisions set out in Section 10 (1) of the Minutes on Pension shall be applicable to an officer who obtained
no-pay leave from the provincial public service.
137. In order to enable action to be taken to protect the pension rights of the officer who has been released to a post
outside the provincial public service the Appointing Authority shall send copies of letters releasing him from the provincial
public service and reversion to his substantive post to the Provincial Chief Secretary and to the Director General of Pensions
at the time of release and at the time of his reversion.
138. Where an officer of the provincial public service has been released to a Public Corporation or a University or a
company owned by the Government or a company of which Government holds more than 50% of shares and controlling
interest or a special Government project, it shall be the responsibility of the respective institution to remit to the Director
General of Pensions 25% of the consolidated salary of the officer as contribution to the pension, and contributions to, as the
case may be, the Widows’ & Orphans’ Pension Fund or the Widowers’ & Orphans’ Pension Fund, and it shall be the
responsibility of the Appointing Authority and the respective officer to ensure its compliance.
139. On receipt of the written approval to release an officer to a relevant post in terms of provisions of Section 129
above, it shall be the responsibility of such officer to duly hand over documents of the provincial council, computer passwords,

<!-- page 19 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
19A
any other property, keys and official identity card etc. in his charge, to his Department Head or another officer designated by
the Head of the Institution.   It is the responsibility of the Head of the Department or the Head of the Institution to make
arrangements to take charge of the above and to release the Officer after proper handing over.
140.The release of an officer of the provincial public service to a post outside the provincial public service on
temporary basis shall end in any one of the following instances. In such an event the Appointing Authority shall have
responsibility and authority to recall the officer to the substantive service or post.
i. When the period of release ends;
ii. The institution to which the officer was released does not need his services any further;
iii. The officer is unwilling to serve in the respective institution any further;
iv. The closure of the institution to which the officer was released or the abolition of the post he holds
iv. A decision has been taken by the Disciplinary Authority to initiate disciplinary action against the officer.
CHAPTER XIII
Re-employment in the Provincial Public Service of a person retired from
Public Service or Provincial Public Service
141. The power to re-employ in the provincial public service a person who has retired from the public service or the
provincial public service vests exclusively with the Governor.
142. The following persons are not eligible for re-employment in the provincial public service:
(i) A person compulsorily retired as an alternative to dismissal
(ii) A person retired on disciplinary grounds
(iii)  A person retired for general inefficiency
(iv) A person retired as a result of refusal of extension of service
(v) A person retired on his consent to retire on a government policy decision
(vi) A person found guilty of any offence set out in Schedule 1 of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial
Public Service Commission, Disciplinary Code of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission or V olume
II of the Establishments Code immediately preceding three years from the date of retirement.
(vii) A person retired under Section 12 of the Minutes on Pension
(viii) A Person against whom disciplinary proceedings are pending.
143. A person who has retired from the service before reaching compulsory age of retirement will not be reemployed in
a post except under exceptional circumstances. If such a person is re-employed in the provincial public service it shall be done
on the basis of freezing his pension until he reaches the date of compulsory retirement
144. A person who has retired from the public service or the provincial public service may be re-employed in the
provincial public service only on contract. Such an appointment shall be limited to a maximum period of one year at a time. The
letter of appointment shall be prepared as per the specimen in appendix 02.
145. A person who has retired from the public service or the provincial public service on medical grounds could be
 re-employed only upon all the following conditions being satisfied.
(i) He had not passed the optional age of retirement by the time he is re-employed
(ii) A duly constituted Government Medical Board has certified that he is physically and mentally fit to perform
satisfactorily the duties of the respective post

<!-- page 20 -->

20A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
(iii) At least one year has elapsed since the date of retirement.
(iv) He had not been found guilty of any offence set out in Schedule I of the Procedural Rules of the Western
Provincial Public Service Commission, Disciplinary Code of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission
or V ol. II of the Establishments Code immediately preceding 3 years from the date of retirement.
146. Where a person who had been retired on medical grounds is re-employed his pension shall be frozen and he shall
be placed on the salary point he drew at the time of retirement or on the corresponding salary point if there had been a salary
revision.
CHAPTER XIV
Termination of Employment and Resignation from Provincial Public Service
147. The Appointing Authority is vested with the power to terminate a Substitute Employee without giving prior
notice or reasons. However, he shall record in detail in the respective file the reasons for such a decision.
148. The Appointing Authority may terminate the services of an officer of the provincial public service who is on
probation, in accordance with the provisions in Chapter VIII.
149. Where a letter of resignation is received from an officer of the provincial public service in terms of Section 45 of
Chapter VI by a Head of the Department, he shall forthwith get the following matters clarifie:
(i) That there are no disciplinary proceedings pending against the officer nor is there a prima facie case indicating
immediate initiation of such proceedings
(ii) That there is no agreement or bond binding the officer for a specified period of service to the government or the
provincial council
(iii) That there is no sum of money whatsoever due to the government or the provincial council from the officer
(iv) That he has absolved the government or the provincial council of any pending responsibilities as regards relief
and privileges provided to him by a third party on surety furnished by the government or the provincial council
when he was working as an officer of the provincial public service
(v) That the officer has duly returned all government or provincial council property in his charge
(vi) That there are no judicial proceedings pending against the officer regarding any matter connected with the
government and the provincial council.
(vii) That he has provided another surety for any surety agreement he has entered into with the government or the
provincial council and that the other surety has entered into a new surety agreement with the government or
the provincial council.
(viii) That he has produced his resignation letter prior to a calendar month or paid back a month’s salary.
150. Where it appears to the Head of Department that the resignation of an officer of the provincial public service
cannot be accepted due to any of the reasons mentioned in Section 149 above, a full report together with certified copies of
supporting documents shall be sent forthwith by the Head of Department to the Appointing Authority with the letter of
resignation of the officer.

<!-- page 21 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
21A
151. Where the Head of Department is satisfied that no impediment is caused by any matter mentioned in Section 149
above for the acceptance of the resignation, he shall inform the officer in writing that if he resigns from his appointment he will
forfeit all claims to a pension, gratuity and all the benefits arising from his service prior to resignation, should he afterwards
succeed in obtaining re-employment in the provincial public service and that if the resignation is accepted any application to
withdraw it later will not be considered. Such letter shall be handed over to the officer personally, wherever possible, and if it
is not possible to do so, it shall be sent by registered post.
152. Where the relevant officer has not withdrawn the letter of resignation within 7 days of the handing over or the
dispatch under registered post the letter referred to in Section 151 above to the officer, the Head of Department shall forward
without delay his report and recommendations together with the letter of resignation of the officer with certified copies of the
letter sent to the officer, to the Appointing Authority.
153. Where after consideration of the report and recommendation of the Head of Department, the Appointing Authority
is satisfied that the resignation could be accepted he shall inform the relevant officer directly under registered post with copy
to the Head of Department that the resignation has been accepted and also the effective date of the resignation.
154. Where the Appointing Authority decides that the resignation cannot be accepted, he shall communicate such
fact to the officer directly under registered post with copy to the Head of Department together with reasons that led to such a
decision.
155. Under no circumstances can an officer of the provincial public service resign with retrospective effect.
156. Where the officer fails to report for duty before the decision of the Appointing Authority is received by him the
officer shall be deemed to have vacated his post on his own accord and further action shall be taken in terms of Chapter XV .
CHAPTER XV
Vacation of Post
157. Every officer of the provincial public service shall report for duty on each working day unless his leave has been
formally approved.
158. Where at any time an officer finds it difficult to report for duty, it is his responsibility to inform his Head of
Institution of such absence and get his leave duly approved so that the latter may take alternative measures to get the
respective work done. However, if any officer of the provincial public service is unable to report for duty owing to unavoidable
circumstances without getting his leave approved, it shall be the responsibility of the officer to inform the Head of Institution
of his absence within 24 hours of the time of commencement of his duty on that particular day.
159. An officer who absents himself from duty without informing his Head of Institution as mentioned in Section 158
above shall be deemed to have vacated his post on his own accord. It shall be the duty of his Appointing Authority or
immediate Administrative Head to inform the officer forthwith as per Appendix 12 by registered post. If the vacation of post
notice is issued by an authority other than the Appointing Authority, he shall send copies of the notice to the Appointing
Authority and to other relevant authorities.
160. No explanation shall be called from, or charges framed, against an officer who is deemed to have vacated his post
on his own accord in terms of Section 159 except in the circumstances set out in Section 161.
161. Where the person who vacated post volunteers an explanation in writing to the officer who was the Disciplinary
Authority during his time in the public service within three months of the date the vacation of post notice the Disciplinary
Authority shall consider his explanation in terms of the respective disciplinary rules. Having considered his explanation, the
Disciplinary Authority may reinstate him with or without punishment or refuse such reinstatement. The Disciplinary Authority
shall  record  the  reasons for  his  decision in  the  respective  file clearly and  accurately in detail.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
Further, he shall formally communicate his decision to the said person. In respect of an officer aggrieved by the decision of the
Disciplinary Authority, action shall be taken as per the disciplinary procedure of the provincial public service commission.
CHAPTER   XVI
Extension of Service and Retirement
162. The retirement of an officer of the provincial public service is governed by the Public and Judicial Officers
Retirement Ordinance, Rules made under that Ordinance, Minutes on Pensions, and by the policy decisions of Cabinet of
Ministers.
163. An officer who does not come within the special categories of employees mentioned in Section 14 of the Minutes
on Pensions and who is considered to be an officer entitled to the pension by the Director General of Pensions and who has
completed 20 years service in the provincial public service may retire at his own discretion. But, he shall be entitled to the
pension only from the date he completes 55 years of age.
164. Subject to the provisions of the Government, the optional age of retirement of an officer of the provincial public
service shall be 55 years and the compulsory age of retirement shall be 60 years.
165. An officer of the provincial public service may be in service till 60 years of age without extensions of service.
However, if an officer of the provincial public service intends to retire from his service on completion of 55 years of age or
thereafter, or on reaching the compulsory age of retirement, he shall forward such request for retirement formally in writing to
the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, to the authority on whom powers have been delegated, three months before
the date he intends to retire. Provided however
i. Where disciplinary proceedings are pending against the officer or such disciplinary proceedings are contemplated
the retirement of the officer shall be made subject to Section 2:12 of the Minutes on Pensions. It shall be the
duty of the Head of the Department and/or Head of Institution to bring such matters to the notice of the
Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been delegated, when
request for retirement of officers of the provincial public service are made.
ii. Where the officer commits a misconduct warranting a disciplinary action against him after his retirement has
been approved by the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have
been delegated, the order for retirement shall be converted from normal retirement to that of a retirement under
Section 2:12 of the Minutes on Pensions by the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on
whom the powers have been delegated, when such misconduct is brought to the notice of the Appointing
Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been delegated, before the effective
date of retirement and shall serve or cause to be served a copy of the order on the officer concerned.
iii. Where the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been delegated
has granted a normal retirement to an officer on the basis that no disciplinary proceedings are pending or
contemplated and if such pending disciplinary proceedings or contemplated disciplinary action is brought to
the notice of the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been
delegated, after the normal retirement has been granted and before the effective date of retirement the Appointing
Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been delegated shall convert that
retirement to that of a retirement under Section 2:12 of the Minutes on Pensions and shall serve or cause to be
served a copy of the order on the officer concerned.
iv. When the Appointing Authority decides that the extension of service beyond the age of 57 years should
not be given to an officer whose efficiency and performance are not satisfactory, the appointing
authority is authorized to retire such office giving 6 months notice enabling him to make an appeal against
such decision.

<!-- page 23 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
23A
166. In order to pay the pension without difficulty, delay or causing any hardship to an officer of the provincial public
service who had retired, the Administrative Authority or the Head of Department shall, at least nine months before the optional
date of retirement, ensure that the personal file and history sheet of the officer is complete, accurate and updated and maintain
it in such manner until the officer reaches his date of retirement.
167. In the case of an officer of the provincial public service retiring from the provincial public service, the respective
Administrative Authority or Head of Department or Appointing Authority shall forward to the Director General of Pensions all
documents required to pay his pension at least three months before the date of his retirement. The Head of the Department
shall be liable for any delay.
CHAPTER  XVII
Procedure relating to Promotions
168. ( a) Powers vested with the Governor in terms of Section 32(1) of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 for
promotions of Provincial Public Service officers may be delegated to the Provincial Public Service  Commission
in terms of Section 32(2) of the said Act.
(b) In terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, the powers vested in the
Provincial Public Service Commission may be delegated to the Provincial Chief Secretary or a particular
officer.
169. In terms of powers vested with the Governor in Section 33(8) of Provincial Council  Act, No. 42 of 1987, the
Governor shall have the power to alter, vary of rescind any order made by the Provincial Public Service Commission or by an
authority on whom powers have been delegated as per the provisions in section 4 of the Provincial Council (Amendment) Act,
No. 28 of 1990.
170. Every promotion in the provincial public service shall be made only in accordance with the approved Service
Minute or Scheme of Recruitment It shall be the responsibility of Appointing Authority to promote the officers of the
provincial public service on due time as provided for in the Service Minutes or Schemes of Recruitment approved by the
Governor.
171. Before making a promotion it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to satisfy himself that a
vacancy in the approved cadre exists for the promotion of an officer except in the case of a promotion which has perforce to be
made where an officer has acquired the necessary qualifications.
172. An officer of the provincial public service must earn his promotion by a satisfactory service and fulfillment of all
the required qualifications prescribed in the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment.
(i) Satisfactory service means a period of service, during which period an officer had earned all annual salary
increments fell due by efficient and diligent discharge of duties, by passing over efficiency bars fell due, by
qualifying for confirmation in service fell due and during which period he has not committed a punishable
offence.
(ii) Where an officer has not been granted his due annual salary increments for legitimate reason the period during
which the increment had stand suspended, reduced, stopped or deferred and where an officer had committed
a punishable offence falling under Schedule I of the Disciplinary Code of the Western Provincial Public Service
and  V olume II of the Establishments Code, a period of three years from the date of commitment of the offences
and where an officer had committed a punishable offence falling under the Schedule II of the Disciplinary Code
of the Western Provincial Public Service and V olume II of the Establishments Code a period of one year from the
date of commitment of the offence, shall be excluded in computing his period of satisfactory service.

<!-- page 24 -->

24A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
173. It shall be the duty of Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority to conduct the required examination,
trade test, interview etc. on the due dates in order to provide officers with an opportunity to acquire the qualification for
promotion.
174. Notwithstanding the provision which contains in Section 23, in the case of the grade to grade promotion in
service is made belatedly owing to some unavoidable circumstances and where it appears to the Appointing Authority that the
officer of the provincial public service is in no way responsible for such delay and on perusal of eligibility it is proved that the
officer has qualified himself for promotion in all respects, the Appointing Authority shall promote the officer with effect from
the due date even though the officer may no longer in provincial public service or is retired or dead.
175. The process of promotion shall be conducted in a transparent manner so that it will generate confidence among
the officers that promotions are done solely as provided for in the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment in an objective
way and not in any other manner or due to extraneous influences.
176. Where marks are to be allocated for examinations, tests and interviews for promotion held in accordance with the
approved Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment such marking scheme shall be included in the advertisement calling for
applications for promotions.
177. The provisions in Chapter VII on “General Conditions relating to Appointments” in these procedural rules shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, with regard to promotions.
Transfers
General Conditions Relating to Transfers
178. ( a) In terms of Section 32 (2) of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and subject to any other law, the
Governor may, from time to time, delegate to the Provincial Public Service Commission of this province the
powers of transfer of officers of the Western Provincial Public Service.
(b) In terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, the powers vested in the
Provincial Public Service Commission may be delegated to the Chief Secretary or a particular officer.
179. Every officer of the provincial public service is subject to transfer.
180. An officer of the provincial public service can be transferred only by the Provincial Public Service Commission or
by an Authority with Delegated power.
181. An officer of the provincial public service is transferred to achieve, as the case may be, all or several or any one
of the following objectives:
i. Fill a vacancy in an institution
ii. Meet the administrative needs of an institution
iii. Promote the efficiency and productivity of the institution
iv. Meet the needs of a disciplinary process
v. Implement a disciplinary order
vi. Provide the officer with an opportunity to gain experience in a wider field
vii. Provide the officer with an opportunity for professional development and improvement of his skills
viii. Provide relief from personal difficulties experienced by the officer.
However, when transfers are made for reasons given from ii to viii above, it is necessary that a vacancy exists in the
relevant institution.

<!-- page 25 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
25A
182. Transfers are fourfold as indicated below:
i. Transfers done annually
ii. Transfers done on exigencies of service
iii. Transfers done on disciplinary grounds
iv. Mutual transfers on requests made by officers
Annual Transfers
Annual Transfer Committees
183. The Authority with Delegated power shall make all possible efforts to adhere to the time limits stipulated in the
following Sections in respect of Annual Transfers. Provided however, no order made under the Annual Transfer Scheme shall
be invalid by reason only of any non observance of such limits which has not resulted in a failure of justice.
184. The Authorities with Delegated power shall before 01st June constitute annual transfer committees within
departments and ministries to seek proposals on annual transfers. Annual transfer committees with regard to the officers of the
provincial public service who belong to the Combined Services shall be set up by the Provincial Chief Secretary.
185. The Authority with Delegated power shall set up separate annual transfer committees for each service or category
of officers of the provincial public service, in a department or ministry when the number of such officers in each service or
category exceeds 25. However, an Authority with Delegated power may under special circumstances and at its discretion
appoint an annual transfer committee in a ministry or department even where the number of officers is less than 25.
186. The composition of an annual transfer committee of a ministry or department shall be as follows:
i. A deputy head or in the absence of such a post, the officer next in seniority of the relevant ministry or
department
ii. A senior officer of the provincial public service in charge of establishment matters of the relevant ministry or
department
iii A representative nominated by each trade union which conforms to the provisions in Chapter XXV of the
Establishments Code and which represents the category of officers and service falling within the purview of the
annual transfer committee, provided that such trade union has a minimum membership of 15% of the total
number of officers of the provincial public service.
187. The following instances shall not come within the scope of an annual transfer committee:–
i. Internal attachment in a government institution not involving change in station
ii. Transfers on a disciplinary order or as required by a disciplinary process
iii. Transfers on exigencies of service
iv. Mutual transfers on requests made by officers of the provincial public service
Principles and Procedures on Annual Transfers
188. The Authority with Delegated power shall before 15th of June in consultation with the annual transfer committee
prepare the principles and procedures on annual transfers of his Ministry or Department taking into consideration the needs
of such Ministry or Department, the conditions in the Service Minutes of respective services and the Schemes of Recruitment
of respective posts. These principles and procedures shall be made known to all the relevant officers of the provincial public
service when calling applications for annual transfers.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
189. When preparing the principles and procedures on annual transfers, the Authority with delegated power shall take
the following matters into consideration:
i. The period an officer has served in a work station
ii. Geographical location of work stations and the facilities or difficulties
iii. Legitimate, supplementary financial and other benefits and privileges in work station. No officer or employee in
the transferable service shall remain in his post after completing three years where 25% additional remuneration
or bonus is paid as incentive. If such an officer is allowed to remain for valid reason he will forego his incentive
allowance.
iv. Relief may be provided to officers to overcome personal difficulties without prejudice to the requirements of
service.
v. Prevent commission of irregularities by an officer of the provincial public service due to continuous service in
the same work station or perform the same duty for a prolonged period.
vi. Provide an opportunity for the officer to improve his knowledge and skills in a wider field.
vii. Need for the smooth functioning of the Ministry or Department.
Calling of Applications for Annual Transfers
190. The Authority with delegated power may before 30th of June issue the notice calling for applications for annual
transfers from the relevant officers of the provincial public service. He should in the notice, state that applications for annual
transfers should be submitted to him on or before 31st of July.
191. The Authority with delegated power should take steps to hand over the annual transfer applications received by
him to the relevant annual transfer committee before 10th of August.
Issuing the Notice on Proposed Annual Transfers
192. In making its recommendations the annual transfer committee shall take into consideration the principles and
procedure on annual transfers prepared by the Authority with delegated power and the provisions in this Chapter.
193. An annual transfer committee may submit its recommendations in writing to the Authority with delegated power
before the 31st of August. It shall be the duty of each annual transfer committee to record the reasons for its recommendations.
194. The Authority with delegated power may take action to issue the notice on the proposed annual transfers prior to
15th of September after the receipt of the recommendations of the annual transfer committee. The notice shall contain the last
date on or before which any representation should be made to the Authority with delegated power by any officer of the
provincial public service who is aggrieved by the proposed transfer. Provided however, the maximum period for such
representation shall not exceed 14 days inclusive of non working days.
195. An officer of the provincial public service who wishes to make representations regarding the proposed annual
transfer relating to him should make such representations to the Authority with delegated power through Head of the
Institution or Secretary to the Provincial Ministry or Head of the Department as the case may be, to reach him on or before the
date given in the said notice as per Appendix 13. The relevant officer of the provincial public service is permitted to submit a
copy of his representations direct to the Authority with delegated power, if he so desires. It shall be the responsibility of the
relevant Head of Department or the Head of Institution, as the case may be, to refer such written representations submitted to
him by the officers concerned to the Authority with delegated power to reach him on or before the prescribed date.

<!-- page 27 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
27A
Annual Transfer Proposals Review Committee
196. The Authority with delegated power shall appoint an annual transfer proposals review committee before 15th of
September to review the proposals of the annual transfer committee based on representations made in terms of Section 195
above. He shall take steps to appoint three senior officers serving in his ministry or department or institution as members of the
said committee and to appoint the most senior officer among them as the Chairman of the Committee.
197. The annual transfer proposals review committee may take steps to submit its written recommendations on the
proposed annual transfers to the Authority with Delegated power on or before 15th of October. It shall be the responsibility of
the annual transfer proposals review committee to indicate in their report the reasons for its recommendations. In making its
recommendation the annual transfer proposals review committee shall take into consideration the principles and procedures
on annual transfers prepared by the Authority with Delegated power and the provisions in this Chapter.
Issuing Annual Transfer Orders
198. Authority with delegated power shall issue annual transfer orders taking into consideration the proposals of the
annual transfer committee and the recommendations of the annual transfer proposals review committee.
199. All annual transfers may be made effective from 01st January. It shall be the responsibility of the Authority with
delegated power to issue the annual transfer orders at least two months before the effective date of annual transfers, i. e. before
01st of November.
Implementation of Annual Transfer Orders
200. The Head of Department or Head of Institution shall release an officer of the provincial public service who is on
transfer, well in time from his present station so that he may assume duties at his new station on the due date. Likewise, it shall
be the responsibility of the officer on transfer to report for duty at his new station on the due date.
201. The Head of Institution shall take action to make temporary internal arrangements to cover the duties of an officer
of the provincial public service who is on transfer, without waiting for the arrival of his successor to release the officer. The
Head of Institution shall release the officer on transfer, well in time enabling him to report for duty on the due date without
waiting for his successor.
202. The Head of Department or Head of Institution shall, when an officer in his staff receives an annual transfer order,
make arrangements to take charge of files, documents, other properties of the provincial council, keys, computer passwords
and official identity card etc. well in time from the custody of the officer on transfer. Likewise, it shall be the responsibility of
the officer on transfer to make arrangements, in consultation with his superiors, to duly hand over such materials that are in his
custody.
203. An officer who does not report for duty at his new station duly despite the fact that he had been released from his
former station without valid excuse shall be deemed as having vacated his post on his own accord and it shall be the
responsibility of the Head of the Department or the Head of institution, as the case may be, of his new station to take action in
terms of Chapter XV .
Transfers on Exigencies of Service
204. An officer of the provincial public service may be transferred on exigencies of service by the Authority with
delegated power for any one of the following reasons with the approval of the Commission.
i. Where the services of an officer of the provincial public service is no longer needed at his present station
ii. Where an officer is needed for service in another station or that particular officer himself is needed
iii. Where it is found, due to administrative reasons, that the retention of an officer of the provincial public service
in his present station is not conducive.

<!-- page 28 -->

28A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
205. Before an officer of the provincial public service is transferred on exigencies of service, the Authority with
delegated power shall personally satisfy himself that need has actually arisen as specified in Section 204 above and that the
transfer cannot be deferred till the next annual transfers.
206. Depending on the nature of the need for services that has arisen, the Authority with delegated power may transfer
an officer of the provincial public service, at short notice with the approval of the Commission.
207. The Authority with delegated power shall record in the relevant file clearly all the factors that caused the transfer
of an officer of the provincial public service on exigencies of service. The Authority with delegated power shall convey the
reasons to the officer concerned.
Transfers on Disciplinary Grounds
208. The Authority with delegated power may transfer an officer of the provincial public service on disciplinary
grounds, in the following instances, even without prior notice. Further, the Authority with delegated power shall convey the
reasons in writing to the officer concerned:
i. Where a disciplinary order has been made with a transfer as punishment consequent upon a formal disciplinary
inquiry held against the relevant officer of the provincial public service
ii. Although the findings of a preliminary investigation do not warrant the interdiction of an officer, but require
that he should not be allowed to serve in his present station
iii. Where it is found on matters revealed either before the beginning, or in the course of a preliminary investigation
or on existing circumstances that the retention of an officer in his post or station may obstruct the conduct of
the preliminary investigation.
Mutual Transfers on Requests made by Officers
209. Subject to the following conditions, the Authority with Delegated power may entertain and issue transfer orders,
on requests made by two or more officers of the provincial public service for mutual transfers:
i. The respective officers are in the same service and grade or similar posts
ii. The respective Heads of Departments or Heads of Institutions as the case may be, have given their consent for
the request made by the respective officers
iii. If the respective officer has been transferred to his present station on disciplinary grounds and has not
completed the punishment period stipulated in the disciplinary order.
iv. That respective officer has served in their present stations at least for a minimum period of two years.
Steps to be taken following the Implementation of Transfers
210. It shall be the responsibility of the former Head of the Department or Head of the Institution, as the case may be,
to duly transmit the following documents regarding the officer to his new Head of Department or Head of Institution within two
weeks of the transfer of an officer.
i. Updated Personal File with the updated History Sheet
ii. Recommendation in respect of the period, from the date of the officer’s last increment up to the date of
implementation of the transfer, regarding the payment of the officer’s next increment;
iii. Performance Evaluation Report of the officer

<!-- page 29 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
29A
iv. Leave particulars of the officer
v. Statement on Holiday Railway Warrants obtained by the officer
vi. Salary particulars of the officer
vii. Credit Balance Statement of the officer
viii. Report containing details of all foreign travel of the officer during his service
ix. Report containing the details of all study courses, workshops and various conferences attended by the officer
x . Other important documents relating to the officer.
CHAPTER  XIX
Preparation of Registers and Reports on Officers of the Provincial Public Service
211. Every Authority with delegated power, Head of Department and Head of Institution shall maintain, and regularly
update the following documents as per Appendices mentioned below containing all the information on all the officers of the
provincial public service within their purview:
Registers to be maintained Appendix
i. Register of Appointments and Promotions - No. 14
ii. Register of Dismissed Officers - No. 15
iii Register of Resigned Officers -No. 16
iv Register of Officers who had vacated their posts - No. 17
v Register of interdicted Officers and those sent on compulsory leave - No. 18
vi Register of Retired Officers - No. 19
212. The Authorities with delegated power shall forward half-yearly a statistical summary of data maintained in the
registers described in Section 211 above to the Provincial Chief Secretary, Head of the Institution, Head of the Department as
per specimen in Appendix 20. Accordingly, the Provincial Chief Secretary must receive the data due by 30th of June each year
before 20th of July and the data by 31st of December before 20th of January.
213. Each Head of an office under the purview of the provincial council shall maintain and regularly update a register
relating to the entire staff employed in his office as per Appendix 21.
214. The Authorities with delegated power, as the case may be, shall maintain separate seniority lists for each and
every category of officers, which lists shall be, updated half yearly.
215. Every officer of the provincial public service holding a permanent post and subject to performance appraisal shall
on the due date forward his performance appraisal form after filling the relevant sections to the Head of Department or Head of
Institution for his appraisal. It shall be the duty of the Head of Department or Head of Institution after receiving the appraisal
form to duly conduct the appraisal of the relevant officer.
CHAPTER  XX
Procedure on Appeals against Promotions and Transfers
216. ( a) In terms of Section 32(2) of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and subject to any other law, the
Governor may, from time to time, delegate to the Provincial Public Service Commission of this province the
powers of promotion and transfer of officers of the Western Provincial Public Service.

<!-- page 30 -->

30A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
(b) In terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, the powers vested in the
Provincial Public Service Commission may be delegated to the Provincial Chief Secretary or a particular
officer.
Any officer aggrieved by an order relating to a promotion or transfer made, by the Provincial Public Service Commission
to may appeal  the Governor against such order.
217. An officer making an appeal against an order relating to a transfer or promotion to the appellate authority shall do
so only as per Appendix 22. He shall also submit certified copies of the documents in support of his representation along with
the appeal.
218. An officer of the provincial public service shall submit an appeal to the Provincial Public Service Commission only
through the Authority with Delegated power with copies, to Head of Institution, Head of Department and, as the occasion
demands, to the Secretary to the respective Ministry. It shall be the duty of the Authority with Delegated power to submit such
appeals forthwith to the Provincial Public Service Commission with his observation. The officer, if he so desires, may submit
an advance copy of the appeal direct to the Provincial Public Service Commission.
219. A Retired Officer making an appeal relating to a promotion due during the period he was in the provincial public
service on which a decision has been made by an Authority with Delegated power after his retirement shall submit such appeal
direct to the Provincial Public Service Commission. However, he shall send the copy of the appeal to his former Head of
Department or Head of Institution.
220. An appeal against an order relating to a promotion made by the Authority with Delegated power shall be made by
the relevant officer within 30 days of making the decision in question and appeal against an order relating to a transfer made
by the Authority with Delegated power shall be made within 14 days of the receipt of the transfer order by the officer. Appeals
which are not received within the stipulated time shall be rejected by the Western Provincial Public Service Commission or the
relevant Appellate Authority.
221. The Head of Institution, Head of Department, Appointing Authority and Secretary to the Ministry shall ensure
that an appeal handed over by an officer for transmission to the Provincial Public Service Commission is delivered to the
Secretary of the said Commission within fifteen days of the receipt of the appeal together with all relevant files, documents and
reports and respective observations and recommendations. However, in case of transfers made under the annual transfer
scheme referred to in Chapter XVIII the appeal together with relevant files, documents, reports, observations and
recommendations shall be delivered to the Chief Secretary on or before 01st of December.
222. It is the responsibility of every officer to submit his appeal in accordance with the requirements in this Chapter
and any appeal that does not conform to these requirements shall not be considered by the Western Provincial Public Service
Commission or the relevant Appellate Authority, and also by the Chief Secretary.
223. The Western Provincial Public Service Commission or the relevant Appellate Authority may make a determination
on an appeal made against a promotion within 45 days of the receipt of the documents referred to in Section 223 above. The
Provincial Chief Secretary may make a determination on an appeal made against a transfer within fifteen days of the receipt of
the documents referred to in Section 223 above.
224. The Commission shall send its decision on an appeal made as aforesaid direct to the appellant officer under
registered cover with copies to the Authority with Delegated power, Head of the Department and Head of the Institution.
225. An officer aggrieved by an order or decision made by the Provincial Public Service Commission has the right to
prefer an appeal to the Governor within two weeks after the receipt of the decision by the appellant officer.

<!-- page 31 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
31A
CHAPTER  XXI
Channels of Communication
226. An Authority with delegated power may communicate with the Provincial Public Service Commission directly
under his signature on matters relating to its powers.
227. Except otherwise provided for in these procedural rules the officers shall correspond with the Provincial Public
Service Commission only through the relevant Head of Institution, Head of Department and the Secretary to the Provincial
Ministry.
228. Correspondence with the Provincial Public Service Commission shall be only through the Secretary to the
Provincial Public Service Commission.
CHAPTER  XXII
Interpretations
229. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these procedural rules:
I. “Constitution” means the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
II. “Citizen” means a Citizen of Sri Lanka as defined in the Constitution.
III. “Governor” means the Governor.
IV .“Commission”/ “PPSC” means the Western Provincial Public Service Commissionestablished in terms of
the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
V. “Authority with delegated power” means the authority on whom the powers have been delegated in terms
of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990 and Section 32 of the Provincial Councils Act, No.
42 of 1987, subsequent to the delegation of powers vested in the Governor in terms of Section 32 (1) of the
Provincial Councils Act.
VI. “Chief Secretary” means the Chief Secretary of the Western Province appointed in terms of the Provincial
Councils Act No. 42 of 1987
VII. “Secretary to the Ministry” means the Secretary to the Provincial Ministry in the Western Province.
VIII. “Head of Department” means the Provincial Heads of Departments in the Western Provincial Council and
where necessary it refers to the Chief Secretary, Secretary to the Governor, Secretary to the  Provincial Public
Service Commission, Secretaries to Provincial Ministries and  Secretary to the Western Provincial Council.
IX. “Appointing Authority” means the Governor empowered to appoint, promote and transfer officers of the
Western Provincial Public Service, the authority on whom powers have been delegated by the Governor of
the Western Province in terms of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and the authority on whom the
powers have been delegated under the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990.
X. “Disciplinary Authority” means an Authority with Delegated power of Disciplinary Control and dismissal of
officers of the Western Provincial Public Service. The Disciplinary Authority for officers of the Governors’
Secretariat shall be the Secretary to the Provincial Governor, the Secretary to the Western Provincial Public
Service  Commission  for  officers  of  the  Western  Provincial  Public  Service Commission and the Secretary to
the Provincial Council for officers of the Council Secretariat of the Western Province.

<!-- page 32 -->

32A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
XI. “Administrative Authority” means an officer in the provincial public service who has been duly designated to
carry out administrative functions in terms of the provisions in Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
XII. “Director of Establishments”  the Governor of the Western Province will perform the duties of Director General
of Establishments with regard to Provincial Public  Service.
XIII. “Provincial Council” means the Western Provincial Council constituted under the Constitution.
XIV .“Provincial Public Service” means the provincial public service of the Western Province.
XV .“Officer of the Provincial Public Service” means an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service.
XVI. “Staff Officer” means an officer defined as a staff officer in Paragraph 11 of Public Administration Circular
No.6/2006.
XVII. “Field Officer” means an officer of the provincial public service whose work lies mainly at work sites, is not
confined to one particular place and involves regular attendance in the field and who is required to undertake
inspection and visits whose very nature of duties involves field duty and whose responsibilities are not
confined to any particular station or office.
XVIII. “Substitute Employee” means a person engaged to perform the duties of a post temporarily until the substantive
holder who is absent returns for duty or another arrangement is made to cover his duties.
XIX. “Casual Employee” means a person engaged by a Head of Department or Head of Institution in the
Western Provincial Council temporarily to attend to an unexpected  need, a need that will continue for a few
days or a need that routinely arises each year.
XX. “Ex-serviceman” means an officer or a person of any other rank who has honorably left an armed service by
retirement or released other than on disciplinary grounds.
XXI. “All Island Services” means services published in the Government Gazette Notification No. 1295/26 dated 02
July 2003 and any other service identified by the appropriate authority from time to time.
XXII. “Combined Service” means the Provincial Public Management Assistants Service, Librarians’ Service,
Translators’ Service, Drivers’ Service, Office Employees Service in the Western Provincial Council and any
other service identified by the appropriate authority from time to time as belonging to the Combined Service.
XXIII. “Scheme of Recruitment” means a formal Scheme of Recruitment approved by the Governor for the appointment
of officers to a particular class, grade or post in the provincial public service, promotion of such officer and
matters incidental thereto.
XXIV .“Service Minute” means a service minute duly approved or adopted by the  Governor for the appointment of
officers of the Western Provincial Public Service to particular classes, grades or posts of a service recognized
as such by the Governor and the promotion of such officers including any matter incidental thereto.
XXV .“Appointment” means the conferment of any paid office in the provincial public service subject to or not
subject to subsequent confirmation, to a person not already in the provincial public service, or an appointment,
or a promotion or transfer  involving an increase of salary or any change in status of a person already in
provincial public service.
XXVI. “Promotion” means the appointment in accordance with an approved Service Minute or a Scheme of Recruitment,
of an officer holding a post in the Western Provincial Public Service, to a post, class or grade which is superior
to the post he holds, or the class or grade to which he belongs.

<!-- page 33 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
33A
XXVII. “Transfer” means the moving of an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service from one station or
institution to another station or institution within the Western Province by an Authority with Delegated power
at his discretion or on disciplinary grounds  or  on the  proposal  of an Annual Transfer Committee or on the
recommendation of an Annual Transfer Proposals Review Committee or on the request of the officer or on
exigencies of service or on the appointment of the officer to another post as a result of promotion.
XXVIII. “Appointment on Contract” means an appointment of a person to a post in the Western Provincial Public
Service with specific conditions, for a specific period of time.
XXIX. “Re-instatement” means the restoration to office in the Western Provincial Public Service of a person who had
been interdicted or dismissed or whose probationary appointment has been terminated or who has been treated
as having vacated his post.
XXX. “Superior Post” means one that has either the same or a higher initial salary and an incremental rate and a
higher maximum salary than the post with which it is compared. A post which has a fixed salary higher than or
equal to the maximum  salary of the post with which it is compared is also a superior post.
XXXI. “Comparable Post” means one which has at least the same incremental rate and a maximum salary not less than
that of the post with which it is compared.
XXXII. “Inferior Post” is one which has a lower initial salary, a lower incremental rate and lower maximum salary or any
one of them lower than that of the post with which it is compared.
XXXIII. “Institution” means municipal councils established in terms of the provisions in the  Municipal Councils
Ordinance No. 16 of 1947 (Chapter 252), urban councils  established in terms of the provisions in the Urban
Councils Ordinance No. 61 of  1939 (Chapter 255), Pradeshiya Sabha established in terms of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, a separate unit set up under an officer of staff grade subject to the 13
th Amendment
to the Constitution to carry out a particular duty or service of a Ministry or Department in the Western
Provincial Council.
XXXIV .“Documents” means all the files, letters, registers, statements, reports, publications, books and computerized
data and information and computer passwords.
XXXV .  Unless the context otherwise requires, words of masculine gender also mean words of feminine gender.
XXXVI. Unless the context otherwise requires, singular words also include their plural  sense.
Procedure to be followed when there is inconsistency between texts
230. In the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these procedural
rules, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Transitional Provisions
231. All rules, regulations and procedure relating to appointment, promotion and transfer of officers of the Western
Provincial Public Service as are in force in terms of the provisions of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution and Section 32 of
the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 shall mutatis mutandis, cease to operate from the date of coming into force of these
procedural rules.

<!-- page 34 -->

34A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
Provided however, orders, all steps taken for appointment, promotion and transfer, all orders made, directions given,
proceedings taken, transfers or retirement or release made, all things done or pending under provisions in force on the date
immediately preceding the date of commencement of these rules, shall be deemed to have been made under these Procedural
Rules and shall continue in force and shall, as so far as it could have been made, issued, given or done under those rules, have
effect as if made, issued, given or done under the corresponding provisions of these rules, mutatis mutandis.
List of Appendices
No. Appendix  Section
1 Letter of Appointment on Permanent basis 52
2 Letter of Appointment on Contract basis 144
3 Letter accepting or rejecting the Appointment  68
4 Letter confirming the reporting for Duty  71
5 Annual Review Report on officers subject to probation/acting  86, 89, 92
6 Letter terminating the appointment of an officer subjected to probationary period 85
7 Letter terminating the appointment of an officer subjected to acting period 92
8 Letter promoting over the Efficiency Bar 110
9 Letter terminating the Appointment for failure to pass the Efficiency Bar 115
10  Request for release from the Western Provincial Public Service by an officer 130
11 Request for release from current post on the need of the government 130
12 Notice of Vacation of Post 159
13 Representation relating to proposed annual transfers 195
14 Register of Appointments & Promotions 211
15 Register of Dismissed Officers 211
16 Register of Resigned Officers 211
17 Register of Officers Vacated Post 211
18 Register of officers Interdicted / on compulsory leave 211
19 Register of Retired Officers 211
20 Biannual Report on changes of staff 212
21 Register of Staff Employed 213
22 Appeals against Appointments/Promotions/Transfers 217
APPENDIX  01
(Section 52)
(Registered Post)
My No. : ................................................
Address......................................
.....................................................
.....................................................
Date: ...........................................
Mr./Mrs./Miss............................
...................................................
Sir/Madam
Appointment to the Post of...................................
in the Department of ..................................
* I am pleased to inform you that you are appointed to the Post of .............................. in the Department
of....................................with effect from.............................on the results of the competitive examination held on ........................,
professional test held on .......................and the interview held on........................ . Accordingly you are hereby informed to report

<!-- page 35 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
35A
to ...................... at the....................at...........a.m. / p.m. on the above date and assume duties. If you fail to report for duty as above
without a valid reason this appointment shall stand cancelled.
2. You shall hold this post on public trust. You shall efficiently and diligently discharge the duties of this post for the
benefit of the country and its people.
3. You should be unreservedly loyal to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and you are bound to treat the
duties of your post in the strictest confidence.
4. You have no right to engage yourself in a job in any other institution or any other profession as long as you are in
the Public Service.
5. This appointment is permanent. However, you are subject to a three year probation / one year acting period. During
this period you must prove that you are fit for Western Provincial Public Service by discharging the duties and responsibilities
stipulated in this letter of appointment competently, by good conduct and efficient discharge of your duties. You must also
ensure that other requirements you are called upon to fulfill during your probation / acting period are also fulfilled. You will be
confirmed in this appointment at the end of your probation / acting period only if you succeed in fulfilling all the above
requirements. In case it appears that you are unable to do so this appointment may be revoked during or at the end of the
period. Your appointment shall be reckoned as permanent only after the issue of a formal letter by the Appointing
Authority that you have been confirmed in your post. Until such letter is issued your appointment shall be treated as not
confirmed.
6. This appointment is pensionable. Further, you shall contribute to the Widows’ & Orphans’ Pension Fund / Widowers’
& Orphans’ Pension Fund. You shall pay contributions to this fund as declared by the Government from time to time.
7. This appointment is subject to all conditions and provisions mentioned in the Service Minute / Scheme of Recruitment
of ………...............................for the post of ................................
8. Before the expiry of................years assumption of duties you shall prove that you have acquired proficiency in the
second language in accordance with the policy of the Government. If you had qualified for this appointment in the Sinhala
Language your second language shall be Tamil. Similarly, if you had qualified for this appointment in the Tamil Language your
second language shall be Sinhala. Further, if you had qualified for this appointment in English you shall acquire proficiency in
either Sinhala or Tamil as the second language.
9. The salary scale applicable to this appointment is as follows: …………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
You will be placed on the salary step................ of the scale. You will also be entitled to other allowances to public officers to be
determined by the Western Provincial Council has decided by the Government from time to time. However, you must pass the
first Efficiency Bar before you proceed beyond salary step .................. the second Efficiency Bar before you proceed beyond
salary step .................. and the third Efficiency Bar before you proceed beyond salary step…………………… as stipulated in
the Service Minute / Scheme of Recruitment. In case you fail to pass an Efficiency Bar within the prescribed period your
appointment will be terminated for inefficiency.
10. You should discharge your official responsibilities and obligations according to rules, regulations, orders and
procedures enacted by the Western Provincial Governor for the Western Provincial Public Service. Similarly, you shall be
subject to the Establishments Code, Financial Regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Western
Provincial Council, other regulations, circulars, instructions of the government and the Western Provincial Council and
amendments issued thereto from time to time.
11. You are bound to furnish security, by order of the Western Provincial Council, as per the Public Servants’ Securities
Ordinance in such manner and sum as decided by the Head of Department.

<!-- page 36 -->

36A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
12. In accordance with the official duties of your post you are liable to work on any day, any time, although under
normal circumstances you are liable to perform your duties within the period prescribed by the Authorities of the Western
Provincial Council.
13. You are liable to discharge the official duties of this post anywhere in the Western Province on formal notice given
to you instantly or with due notice.
14. You should prove through a formal medical examination report before the expiry of three months from the assumption
of this appointment that you are mentally and physically fit to serve in any part of the Country. It shall be your responsibility
to ensure that this medical examination report is obtained through the medical officer in charge of a Government Hospital on
forms General 169 and Health 169.
15. You shall make the affirmation or take the oath in terms of Articles 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. If you fail to make affirmation or take oath during the period prescribed by law your appointment
shall cease at the expiry of such period.
16. You should duly establish your identity before taking up this appointment.
17. As soon as you assume duties in your appointment you should submit a letter on the prescribed form that you
have reported for duties.
18. On the day itself that you assume duties you should submit the following documents to................................... :–
i. Forms of Oath/Affirmation in terms of Schedules 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of  Sri Lanka.
ii. Certified copy of your National Identity Card
iii. Birth Certificate
iv. Originals and a set of photocopies of educational, other educational and professional qualifications in support
of the required basic educational qualifications for the post (The originals will be returned after perusal)
v. Marriage certificate, if married: Birth Certificate of the spouse and, if there are any children, their Birth Certificates
vi. Service Agreement on General 160
vii. Declaration of  Assets on General 161
viii. Declaration of  Assets and Liabilities, if applicable
ix. Address permanent and temporary
19. In case you want to resign from this post you must give one calendar month’s notice. You may also resign from this
post by paying the Western Provincial Council a sum equivalent to your month’s salary with the consent of the Appointing
Authority.
20. If the fact that you have submitted erroneous or false information or documents to obtain this appointment in the
Western Provincial Public Service is duly established at any stage after the assumption of this post by you, your appointment
will be treated null and void and the appointment revoked forthwith. Apart from that, action shall be taken in terms of
Section 47 of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service.

<!-- page 37 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
37A
21. Please acknowledge receipt of this letter to................................on form attached hereto, and inform whether you
accept this appointment subject to the conditions stated herein.
Yours sincerely,
Signature: ........................................
Name: ...............................................
Designation: ...................................
Copies:
1. ....................................................
2. ....................................................
3. ....................................................
4. .....................................................
5. ....................................................
6. Auditor General - for your information
*This paragraph shall be amended relevant to the service or post.
APPENDIX 02
(Section 144)
My No. : ................................
Address:..................................
..................................................
..................................................
Date :........................................
Mr./Mrs./Miss............................
....................................................
....................................................
Sir/Madam,
Appointment to the Post of...................................in the Department of
.....................on Contract Basis
I am pleased inform you that you are appointed to the Post of .............................. in the Department
of..................................with effect from………..on the results of the competitive examination held on ........................, professional
test held on.......................and the interview held on ........................ . Accordingly you are hereby informed to report to......................at
the ....................at...........a.m. / p.m. on the above date and assume duties. If you fail to report for duty as above without a valid
reason this appointment shall stand cancelled.
2. You shall hold this post on public trust. You shall efficiently and diligently discharge the duties of the post for the
benefit of the country and its people.
3. You should be unreservedly loyal to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and you are bound to treat the
duties of your post in the strictest confidence.
4. You have no right to engage yourself in a job in any other institution or any other profession as long as you are in
the Public Service.

<!-- page 38 -->

38A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
5. This appointment is made solely on contract basis for a period of................ Accordingly this appointment will
terminate on.................... This appointment may be terminated even before that date as the need demands.
6. You have no right whatever to request that you be made permanent in this post by virtue of your holding this
appointment which is made on contract basis. Similarly, your holding this post will not grant you any special rights to request
that you be appointed to another post in the Public Service on permanent basis.
7. You will be paid a monthly salary / allowance of  Rs................................................ (Rs ............../-). Moreover, you will be
entitled during the effective period of this appointment to the lawful privileges which an officer/employee permanently
appointed to this post is entitled.
8. You should discharge your official responsibilities and obligations according to rules, regulations, orders and
procedures enacted by the Western Provincial Governor and the Western Provincial Public Service Commission for the
Western Provincial Public Service. Similarly, you shall be subject to the Establishments Code, Financial Regulations of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, other government regulations, circulars, instructions and amendments issued
thereto from time to time.
9. In accordance with the official duties of your post, you are liable to work on any day, any time, although under
normal circumstances you are liable to perform your duties within the period prescribed by the Government.
10. You are liable to discharge the official responsibilities of this post anywhere in the Western Province on formal
notice given to you instantly or with due notice.
11. You shall make the affirmation or take the oath in terms of Articles 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. If you fail to make affirmation or take oath during the period prescribed by law your appointment
shall cease at the expiry of such period.
12. You should duly establish your identity before taking up this appointment.
13. As soon as you assume duties, you should submit a letter on the prescribed form that you have reported for duties.
14. On the day itself that you assume duties you should submit the following documents to ....................................:–
i. Certified copy of your National Identity Card
ii. Certificate of Birth
iii. Originals and a set of photocopies of educational, other academic and professional qualifications in support of
the required basic educational qualifications for the post (The originals will be returned after perusal)
iv. Marriage certificate, if married: Birth Certificate of the spouse and, if there are any children, their Birth Certificates
v. Service Agreement on Gen.160
vi. Declaration of Assets on Gen.261
vii. Declaration of Assets and Liabilities, if applicable
viii. Address permanent and temporary
ix. Forms of Oath/Affirmation in terms of Schedules 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
15. Your appointment may be terminated at any stage by the Appointing Authority with one month’s notice.
16. In case you want to resign from this post you must give one calendar month’s notice. You may also resign from this
post by paying the Western Provincial Council a sum equivalent to your month’s salary / allowance with the consent of the
Appointing Authority.
17  If the fact that you have submitted erroneous or false information or documents to obtain this appointment in the
Western Provincial Public Service is duly established at any stage after the assumption of these duties by you, your appointment
will be treated null and void and the appointment revoked forthwith.

<!-- page 39 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
39A
18. Please acknowledge the receipt of this letter to ………………......... on form attached hereto and inform whether you
accept this appointment subject to the conditions stated herein.
Yours sincerely,
Signature: ........................................
Name: ...............................................
Designation: ...................................
Copies:
1. ....................................................
2. ....................................................
3. ....................................................
4. .....................................................
5. ....................................................
6. Auditor General - for your information
APPENDIX 03
(Section 68)
My No. : ................................
Name:.......................................
Address:..................................
..................................................
Date :........................................
...................................................
....................................................
....................................................
Sir,
Appointment to the Post of .......................................................
in the Department of ............................................................
This refers to your letter No. .................................... dated ................. .
02. I hereby inform you that I agree to accept the appointment in the Western Provincial Public Service offered to
me by the letter under reference subject to the conditions mentioned therein.
03. I hereby inform you that I do not wish to accept the appointment in the Western Provincial Public Service
offered to me and letter of appointment is returned herewith.
Yours faithfully,
........................................
Signature.

<!-- page 40 -->

40A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
APPENDIX 04
(Section 71)
(To be submitted in duplicate)
Name: .............................................
Address: ........................................
.........................................................
Date:................................................
To: .....................................................
Through: ...........................................
Sir,
Reporting for Duty in the Post of ....................................... in the
Department of .........................................
Reference letter No. ........... dated .................. issued by ............................ appointing me to the post mentioned above.
02. I hereby confirm that I reported for duty to .............................. on ...................... to discharge the relevant duties and
responsibilities subject to the conditions mentioned in the letter under reference.
Yours faithfully,
Signature: ........................................
Name : .............................................
Designation :....................................
(Appointing Authority)
………………………………
I hereby certify that (Mr./Mrs./Miss) .................................................................. reported for duty in t he post
of.......................................................................................... at the office of..................................................on....................
Date:……………………….
Signature: .......................................
Name: ..............................................
Designation: ..................................
Official Stamp: ...............................
APPENDIX 05
(Sections 87, 89 and 92)
Reference No. : .............................
Annual Review Report Relating to Officers Subject to a Period of Probation / Acting
01. Particulars of the officer
1.1 Name of the Officer: .....................................................................................
1.2 Designation: ...................................................................................................
1.3 Station: ............................................................................................................
1.4 Date of assumption of the appointment: .........................................................
1.5 The date on which the probation / acting period will end :…………………..
1.6 Period relevant to the Review : From ......................... to ...............................

<!-- page 41 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
41A
02. A brief description of the duties assigned to the officer
..................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................................
03. Attendance
3.1 Does he attend office for duties at the due time or before?  Yes / No
3.2 Does he habitually come late for duties? Yes / No
3.3 Does he duly attend to his duties during office hours?   Yes / No
3.4 Does he spend office time to attend to other extraneous matters?   Yes / No
3.5 Leave particulars for the relevant period:
Casual Vacation Sick Half-pay No-pay
………… ……… ………… ………… …………
04 Discipline and Conduct
4.1 Discipline and conduct within the place of work
Weak/satisfactory/good/very good
4.2 Discipline and conduct outside office hours and place of work
Weak/satisfactory/good/very good
4.3 A brief description of disciplinary action taken against the officer during the relevant period:
..................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................................
05  Health
5.1 Was his physical health satisfactory? Yes / No
5.2 Was his mental health satisfactory? Yes / No
06. Performance of duties
6.1 Capability weak / satisfactory / good /very good
6.2 Efficiency weak / satisfactory / good /very good
6.3 Dedication weak / satisfactory / good /very good
6.4 Diligence weak / satisfactory / good /very good
6.5 Neatness weak / satisfactory / good /very good
6.6 Courteousness  weak / satisfactory / good /very good
6.7 Reliability weak / satisfactory / good /very good
6.8 Adherence to instructions weak / satisfactory / good /very good
6.9 Obedience weak / satisfactory / good /very good
6.10 Knowledge of laws, rules, procedures, regulations and circulars etc.
weak / satisfactory / good /very good
07. Any special skills shown:
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................

<!-- page 42 -->

42A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
08. Any noticeable weaknesses shown:
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
09. Particulars of passing over the efficiency bar :
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
10. Particulars about gaining proficiency in the second language:
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
11. Additional educational and professional qualifications obtained:
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
12. Matters to be brought to the attention of the officer:
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
...............................................................................................
13. Final conclusion on the officer after considering all the relevant factors:
weak / satisfactory / good /very good
14. The conclusions of this Review Report were brought to the notice of the officer on..........................
(Immediately Supervising Staff Officer) (Head of Department/ Institution)
Signature : …………………………. Signature : ………………………….
Name : ………………………….…… Name : ………………………………
Designation : ……………………… Designation : ……………………….
Date : ……………………………… Date : ……………………………….
15. The conclusions of this Review Report were brought to my notice on................................
(Officer)
Signature : ……………………….
Name : ……………………………
Designation : …………………….
Date:………………

<!-- page 43 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
43A
APPENDIX  06
(Section 86)
(Registered Post)
My No. : .............................................
Address ...................................
...................................................
...................................................
Date :.........................................
Mr./Mrs./Miss.: ..............................
(Designation)
...........................................................
Through :..........................................
Sir/Madam,
Termination of Appointment
You are hereby informed that your appointment which was subject to a period of probation is terminated with immediate
effect in terms of Section 86, V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission, due to your
failure to fulfill the requirements for confirmation in terms of Section 84 of the Procedural Rules.
2. Please settle all advances and loans taken by you from government/Western Provincial Council before…………………
Failure to do so will result in legal action being taken against you.
3. Please duly handover all Provincial Council properties, documents, keys, computer passwords and official identity
card, etc. in your charge before……………. . Failure to do so will result in legal action being taken against you.
Signature : ..............................
Name : .....................................
Post : .......................................
Date:………………………
Copies :
1. Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission
2. Accountant
3. Auditor General
4. Personal file of the officer
APPENDIX  07
(Section 92)
My No. : ..........................................
Address.........................................
........................................................
........................................................
Date: ..............................................
Mr./Mrs./Miss. :..............................
(Designation)
...........................................................
Through:..........................................
Termination of Appointment
You are hereby informed that your appointment which was subject to a period of acting is terminated with immediate
effect in terms of Section 93, V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission, due to your
failure to fulfill the requirements for confirmation in terms of Section 84 of the Procedural Rules.

<!-- page 44 -->

44A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
2. Accordingly you are hereby reverted to your former post. / former post on supernumerary basis.
3. Please duly hand over all government properties, documents, keys, computer passwords and official identity
card, etc in your charge before………………………….
Signature : .................................
Name : ........................................
Post : ..........................................
Copies:
1. Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission
2. Accountant
3. Former Appointing Authority
4. Auditor General
5. Personal file of the officer
APPENDIX 08
(Section 110)
My No. : ………………….
Address : ................................
..................................................
..................................................
Date :........................................
Mr. / Mrs. / Miss.: ........................
Post :...............................................
Through : ......................................
Notice of Promoting over the .......................... Efficiency Bar
You are hereby informed that you have passed the ……………..Efficiency Bar mentioned in the Service Minute / Scheme of
Recruitment of the post of ............................ in .................................. with effect from .............................
Signature : ..............................
Name : .....................................
Post : .......................................
Copies :
1.
2.
3.
4. Personal File
APPENDIX  09
(Section 115)
My No. :
Address: ................................
.................................................
.................................................
Date:........................................
Mr./Mrs./Miss. :………………………….
……………………………………………
Through :……………………………….
Termination of Appointment
This is to inform you that your appointment as ………………………. is deemed to have terminated with effect
from…………………………. in terms of Section 114, Chapter 10 of V olume I of Public Service Commission procedural rules, as
a result of your failure to pass the Efficiency Bar within the stipulated time.

<!-- page 45 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
45A
02. Please settle all advances and loans taken by you from the government/Western Provincial Council
before………………. Failure to do so will also result in legal action being taken against you for the recovery of such dues.
03. Please duly handover all Western Provincial Council properties, documents, keys, computer passwords
and official identity card, etc. in your charge before ………………. . Failure to do so will result in legal action being taken
against you.
Signature : ........................
Name : ................................
Post : ..................................
Copies :
1. Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission
2. Accountant
3. Auditor General
4. Personal File of the Officer
APPENDIX  10
(Section 130)
Address: ................................
.................................................
.................................................
Date:........................................
(Appointing Authority)
………………………………………………
Through
………………………………………………
Request for permanent / temporary release from the Western Provincial Public Service
for service in the post of ..............................in the ..........................
1. Particulars of the officer
1.1 Full Name: ...........................................
1.2 Service: ................... Class: ..................... Grade: ..............
1.3 Designation: ..........................................
1.4 Station: ...................................................
1.5 Department / Institution: ................................
1.6 Provincial Ministry: ................................................
1.7 The date on which the officer was confirmed in the Western Provincial Public Service:
1.8 Age as at the date of request: Years: ....................... Months: ................ Days: .................
1.9 Whether or not the officer has passed all relevant efficiency bars / departmental tests by the date the request is
made:
1.10 If the officer has received special training for discharging the duties of his present post, please give details.
.............................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................
1.11 If the officer is under bond with the Western Provincial Council for a compulsory period of service, please give
details.
.............................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................

<!-- page 46 -->

46A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
1.12 Details of previous temporary releases from the Public Service/Provincial Public Service.
Institution Designation Period Y ears Months
..................... ..................... from ........ to ......... ......... .........
..................... ..................... from ........ to ......... ......... .........
..................... ..................... from ........ to ......... ......... .........
2. The post which the officer expected to serve after release
2.1 Institution:
2.2 Ministry:
2.3 Trade Union / Welfare Union:
2.4 Post:
2.5 Whether the request is for permanent or temporary release:
2.6 If temporary, for how long:
2.7 The proposed date of assumption of duties in the post:
3. I attach hereto a letter issued by.......................expressing willingness to appoint me to the post of .............................. in the
………………………………………… .
4. I attach hereto a certified copy of the minutes of the.......................... trade union / welfare union stating that I have been
selected for the post of ............................... in the said union and that it is necessary to get me temporarily released from
the Western Provincial Public Service for service in the said post. I also attach hereto details about the number of
members registered in the said union and a copy of the approved constitution.
5. I certify that the matters stated by me above are true. This request is submitted in terms of Section 130 of V olume 1 of the
Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission. Accordingly I request that I be permanently /
temporarily released from the Western Provincial Public Service for service in the post of ……………….................………
Signature of the Officer
APPENDIX 11
(Section 130)
My No. : ........................
Address : ...................................................
......................................................................
Date : .........................................................
(Appointing Authority)
......................................
Request for the release of an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service
permanently / temporarily from his present post on the need of the
Government/ Western Provincial Public Service
1. Particulars of the Officer
1.1 Full Name :…………………………………………………………………………
1.2 Service : …………………………Class : ……………….. Grade :…………………
1.3 Post :………………………………………………………………………………..
1.4 Station :…………………………………………………………………………….

<!-- page 47 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
47A
1.5 Department / Institution :…………………………………………………………
1.6 Ministry :………………………………………………………………………….
2. The post proposed to be appointed after the release
2.1 Post : …………………………………………………………………………………
2.2 Salary Scale : ………………………………………………………………………
2.3 Station : ………………………………………………………………………………
2.4 Institution : … ………………………………………………………………………
3. Proposed release
3.1 Whether permanent or temporary : …………………………………………………
3.2 If temporary, for how long :
For a period of .......................... years from .............................. to ...........................
4. The request of the Institution seeking to employ the officer is attached as annex .........
5. The letter of consent by the officer is attached as annex ...........
6. 25% of the consolidated salary of the officer as contribution to his pension and contributions to the Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pension Fund / Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund will be duly paid by the ............................. of
.................................................. which will employ the officer.
7. Accordingly I, request that the above officer be released temporarily / permanently from the post he now holds in the
Western Provincial Public Service for appointment to the above post.
Signature :……………………………….
Name : ……………………………………
Designation : ……………………………
Ministry : ………………………………
(By Registered Post)
APPENDIX  12
(Section 159)
My No. : ..................................
Address: .............................
............................................
............................................
Date :..................................
Rev./ Mr. / Mrs. / Miss. ........................................
...............................................................................
...............................................................................
Notice of Vacation of Post
You who were holding the post of ................................................................ in this Department have not reported for duty
from ................... without duly approved leave.
02. Accordingly, you are hereby informed in terms of Section 160, V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Western
Provincial Public Service Commission that you are deemed to have vacated your post on your own accord.

<!-- page 48 -->

48A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
03. Please settle all advances & loans taken by you from the Government/Western Provincial Council before
.............................  .Failure to do so will also result in legal action being taken against you for the recovery of such dues.
04. Please duly hand over all Western Provincial Council properties, documents, keys, computer passwords and
official identity card, etc. in your charge before ....................... . Failure to do so will result in legal action being taken against you.
05. As a result of the vacation of your post you will forfeit the right to be reappointed to a post in the Western
Provincial Public Service and the right to a pension or grant under the Minutes on Pension.
Signature : ……………………
Name : …………………………
Designation : ………………….
Copies:
1. Appointing Authority
2. Relevant Secretary to the Provincial Ministry
3.  Auditor General
APPENDIX  13
(Section 195)
Your Ref : …………….
Address: ....................................
...................................................
...................................................
Date : .........................................
(Head of Department/ Institution)…….
Through……………………………
Representations relating to Proposed Annual Transfer
I have been informed by your letter/proposed annual transfer Schedule No. ………………………
dated…………………… that it is proposed to transfer me from ………….……………… to ……………………
02. I kindly request under Section 195, V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service
Commission that the proposed transfer be cancelled/varied on the basis of the following facts.
2.1
……………………………………………………………………………………………………..……………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………..……………………
2.2
……………………………………………………………………………………………………..……………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………..……………………
2.3
……………………………………………………………………………………………………..……………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………..……………………
03. Certified copies of following documents are attached in support of the above facts.

<!-- page 49 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
49A
04. I request that I be transferred to one of the following work stations :-
1st preference…………………………………………
2nd preference…………………………………………
3rd preference…………………………………………
……………………………
Signature
Copies :-
1. Appointing Authority
2. Head of the Department
3. Head of the Institution
____________________________________________________________
Recommendation of the Head of the Department/Institution
(Appointing Authority)
………………………………
I am satisfied /not satisfied that the facts mentioned above are correct. This request is recommended/not recommended.
Date : ………… Signature : ……………………….
Name : ……………………………
Designation : ……………………
Official Frank:……………………
APPENDIX 14
(Section 211)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated power
on Appointments and Promotions
Serial No. Date Name of Service, Post Whether the Whether it is a Signature of Signature of
the Officer Class, Appointment is Promotion Management Staff Officer
Grade Assistant and Date
Permanent On Contract in charge of
 the Subject
and Date
APPENDIX  15
(Section 211)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated power
on Officers dismissed from the Western Provincial Public Service
Serial Name, Service, Reasons for Date of File No. Other Matters Signature of Signature of
No. Class, Grade, Post dismissal in dismissal Management Assistant the Staff
of the Officer biref in charge of the Officer
Subject and Date and Date

<!-- page 50 -->

50A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
APPENDIX  16
(Section 211)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated power
on officers who have resigned from the Western Provincial Public Service
Serial Name, Service, Reasons for Date of File No. Other Matters Signature of Signature of
No. Class, Grade, Post Resignation Resig- Management Assistant the Staff
of the Officer nation in charge of the Officer
Subject and Date and Date
APPENDIX  17
(Section 211)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated power
on officers who have vacated their posts
Serial Name, Service, Date of Date of the Other Signature of Management Signature of the
No. Class, Grade, V acation Notice Matters Assistant in charge of the Staff Officer and
Post of the Officer of Post issued Subject and Date Date
APPENDIX  18
(Section 211)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated power
on Interdicted Officers and on Officers on Compulsory Leave
Serial Name, Service, Whether Whether Reasons for File Other Signature of Signature
No. Class, Grade, Interdiction Compulsory such No. Matters Management of the
Post of the Officer Retirement action in brief Assistant in charge Staff Officer
of the and Date
Subject and Date
APPENDIX  19
(Section 211)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated power on Officers
who have been retired from the Western Provincial Public Service
Serial Name, Service, Reasons for Date of File Other Signature of Signature of the
No. Class, Grade, Retirement Retirement No. Matters Mana gement Assistant Staff Officer
Post of the Officer in brief in charge of the and Date
Subject and Date

<!-- page 51 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
51A
APPENDIX   20
(Section 212)
Biannual Report on Changes of the Staff submitted by the Authority with Delegated power
to the Western Provincial Chief Secretary - From .................. to .....................
New Appointments Number of Number Number Number  Number Number Number on
Promotions Dismissed Resigned V acated Retired  Interdicted Compulsory
Posts Leave
Leave
Permanent Contract
APPENDIX  21
(Section 213)
Register to be maintained by Office /Institution
of the Western Provincial Council
on the Entire Staff
Serial Date on which Name and Leaving the Office Signature of Signature of the
No. the Officer reported Designation Management Staff Officer
for Service of the Officer Assistant in and Date
in the Office charge of the
Manner Date Subject and Date
APPENDIX  22
(Section 217)
Name with initials : …….........................................
Address: ...................................................................
...................................................................................
………………………………………………………
Date:.........................................................................
………………………………………………
(Relevant Authority)
Through : (Head of Department / Institution)
………………………………………………………………………..
………………………………………………………………
Appeal made against the Appointment / Promotion / Transfer
01. Particulars of the Appellant:
1.1 Full Name : ...................................................

<!-- page 52 -->

52A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
1.2 Service : ............................. Class : ............................. Grade : ..............................
1.3 Post : ..........................................................................................................................
1.4 Station : .....................................................................................................................
1.5 Department / Institution : ......................................................................................
1.6 Ministry : ...................................................................................................................
02. Decision / Order on which the appeal is based.
2.1 Describe the decision / order briefly :
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
2.2 Who made the decision /order?
................................................................................................................................................
2.3 The date on which the officer received the order : ..........................................................
2.4 Certified copies of letters containing the decision / order are attached as annexes shown below:
Annex (1) ................................................................................................................
Annex (2) ................................................................................................................
2.5 Any other relevant matters:
............................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................
03. Reasons for making an appeal against the decision / order:
3.1 ...........................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................
3.2 ...........................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................
3.3 ...........................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................
3.4 ...........................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................
3.5 ...........................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................
3.6 Certified copies of written submissions to support the above reasons are attached as annexes shown below:
Annex  (1) ……………………………………………………………………………
Annex  (2) ……………………………………………………………………………
Annex  (3) ……………………………………………………………………………
Annex (4)  ……………………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 53 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'01'24
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA – 24.01.2018
53A
04. Redress prayed for:–
.............................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................
. ............................................................................................................
Signature : .........................................
Name : ............................................,,...
Designation : ....................................
Date : ...................
Copies :
1. Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission (This advance copy is kindly forwarded for necessary
action)
02 – 279
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA