

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
441
441
wxl 1"907 - 2015 ud¾;= ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'03'20
No. 1,907 – FRIDAY , MARCH 20, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 443
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... –
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 10th April, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th
March, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—   Part IV(A) of this Gazette, No. 1,906 of 13.03.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
442
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
443
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
NUWARA ELIYA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
04th March, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Nuwara Eliya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(Tamil Medium) of Nuwara Eliya General, District Secretariat,
Town Division Nuwara Eliya.
03–634
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
444
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
04th March, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Pethiyagoda Area in Udunuwara and General, District Secretariat,
Yatinuwara Division Kandy.
Kandy Akurana Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Rambuke-Ela, Harispattuwa Area General, District Secretariat,
Kandy.
Kandy Akurana Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kurugoda Area General, District Secretariat,
Kandy.
03–632
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
445
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
04th March, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Soranatota Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Soranatota Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Viyaluwa Badulla.
Division (Kandyan/General)
Badulla W elimada Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Dambawinna Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Udukinda Badulla.
Division (Kandyan/General)
Badulla Haldummulla Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandepalla West Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Haputale Badulla.
Division (Kandyan/General)
Badulla Lunugala Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Pattipola Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Yatikinda Badulla.
Division (Kandyan/General)
03–631
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
446
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
04th March, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Doluwa Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Legundeniya Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Udapalatha Kandy.
Division (Kandyan/General)
Kandy Y atinuwara Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Medapalatha Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Udapalatha Kandy.
Division (Kandyan/General)
Kandy Udapalatha Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Gangapahala Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Udapalatha Kandy.
Division (Kandyan/General)
Kandy Akurana Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Harispattuwa Udagampaha Division General, District Secretariat,
and  Post of Marriage Registrar of Kandy.
Harispattuwa Division (Kandyan/General)
Kandy Harispattuwa Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Medasiyapattuwa No. 02 Division and General, District Secretariat,
Post of Marriage Registrar of Kandy.
Harispattuwa Division (Kandyan/General)
03–633
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Recruitment to the Posts of Plumber and Electrician in the Ministry of Justice and Labour Relations
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit suitable persons for six (06) vacanices in the post Plumber and five (05)
vacancies in the post of Electricians in the Ministry of Justice and Labour Relations.
01. Educational Qualifications :
Plumber and Electrician : Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with at least two credit passes
in not  more than two sittings.
02. Professional Qualifications :
Plumber : Should have obtained a N. V . Q. Certificate (not less than Level 4) in Plumbing awarded by a Technical/
V ocational Training Institute recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
447
Electrician : Should have obtained a N. V . Q. Certificate (not less than Level 4) in the field of electrical installation, services
etc. awarded by a Technical/V ocational Training Institute recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission.
03. Experience :
Plumber : Should have possessed 02 year work experience as plumber in the field of plumbing.
Electrician : Should have possessed 02 year work experience as an electrician in the field of electrical installation, services
etc.
04. Physical fitness.– Every candidate should be in good mental and physical order to serve in any part of the island and to
discharge the duties of the post.
05. Age limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
06. Other.– Every candidate must furnish a satisfactory proof to the effect that he,
(i) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Is of excellent moral character,
(iii) Has fulfilled the necessary qualifications in all respect referred to above ( i. e. Items 01-05) as at the closing date of
application. Copies of the relevant certificates in proof of the eligibility should be submitted along with the applications.
Applicants who fail to submit the copies of the relevant certificates, will not be called for the interview.
07. Salary Scale.– PL 3-2006(A) - Rs. 12,470 -10x130 -10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,860 per month.
08. Method of recruitment. – Recruitments will be made on the order of merit secured at the practical test and the structured
interview.
09. Nature of the duties.– Plumber is required to carry out the following duties in respect of the buildings of the Ministry of Justice
and Labour Relations which inter alia include –
(i) Proper maintenance of underground water tanks, pipes etc. to ensure the water supply to the buildings is safe.
(ii) Operation and maintenance of water pumps.
(iii) Repair and maintenance of drainage and sewerage systems.
(iv) Repair and maintenance of toilet fittings and water pipes.
(v) Assurance of uninterrupted water supply to the buildings.
(vi) Emergency installation of plumbing fixtures and fittings to drainage and sewerage systems and water pipes.
(vii) Inspection of water meters, motors, taps etc. and diagnose faults if any and report the same.
(viii) Supervision of the economical consumption and the quality of the water supply and report the findings as a matter
of daily routine.
(ix) Maintenance of the pond and the foundatin located within the Ministry premises.
(x) Any other duties and tasks to be assigned by the Secretary to the Ministry or any other officer authorized by the
Secretary.
Electrician is required to carry out the following duties in respect of the buildings of the Ministry of Justice and Labour Relations
which inter alia include -
(i) Electricity supply in accordance with the safe and approved methods.
(ii) Power supply to the air conditioners and related maintenance activities.
(iii) Installation of electrical wiring system, compenents, equipment and related repairs and maintenance.
(iv) Supervision of uninterrupted power supply to the elevator and asurance of its smooth operation and diagnose and
correct faults.
(v) Inspection and testing of electrical connections and installation and supervision of uninterrupted power supply
necessary for the smooth operation of the equipment relating to water supply.
(vi) Assurance that a perfect electrical wiring system is available for uninterrupted electricity supply and proper
maintenance of emergency generator to be used during power cut or failure.
(vii) Supply and maintenance of power to suit the needs on special occasions.
(viii) Any other duties to be assinged by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice or any other officer authorized by the
Secretary.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
448
10. Terms of engagement.– This post is permanent. It is pensionable. The selected candidates are liable to contribute to the
Widows' and Orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans' Orphans' Pension Scheme.
11. The duly completed applications prepared as per the specimen appended at the end of this notice should be sent by registered
post to the following address on or before 17.04.2015. The words "Post of Plumber in the Ministry of Justice and Labour Relations"/"Post
of Electrician in the Ministry of Justice and Labour Relations" as the case may be, should be written on the top left hand corn er of the
envelope containing the application form. Application forms of the officers already in the Public Service must be forwarded tho rugh the
Heads of the Departments/Institutions.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Labour Relations,
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
12. Marking Scheme at the Practical Test.– In case of the post of Plumber.
Subject Syllabus Duration Maximum Pass
Marks Marks
Water supply and Maintenance Lay down, repair and maintenance of water pipes, drainage 03 hours 100 marks 40 marks
pipes, water mains, connections and any other
Repairs and maintenance of contrivances and conveniences of whatever kind,
drainage and sewerage installation repair and maintenance of water pumps,
systems motors, drainage and sewerage systems, practical
knowledge to follow and understand preliminary plans,
maps to ensure uninterrupted supply of water to single
storey and multi storeyed buildings.
In case of the post of Electrician :
Subject Syllabus Duration Maximum Pass
Marks Marks
Supply, repair and maintenance Installation and maintenance of electrical circuits, wiring 03 hours 100 marks 40 marks
of electricity systems, components, enclosures, equipment, appliances,
diagnose and correct defects, maintenance of power supply,
basic knowledge of drawing, following and understanding of
power supply designs, systems, plans, practical knowhow
to maintain electric generators to ensure uninterrupted
supply of power to single storey and multi storeyed
buildings.
13. Marking scheme at the structured interview :
Spheres in respect of which marks are awarded Maximum Marks
01. Additional educational qualifications 25
02. Additional experience 50
03. Additional V ocational qualifications 20
04. Performance at the interview 05
Total 100
Note.– Recruitment will be made on the basis of the practical test and the structured interview. A numbe rof applicants equivalent
to thrice the number of vacancies to be filled among the applicants secured the highest marks at the practical test will be
summoned for the structured interview. Recruitments will be made on the order of merit based on the marks secured at the
practical test and the structured interview.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
449
14. Applications should be in the specimen appended at the end
of this notice and should be filled by the applicant’s own legible
handwriting. Applications which are not in conformity with the
specimen and are received after the closing date of acceptance of
applications are liable to be rejected without notice. Incomplete
applications and applications of the applicants who have not
possessed prescribed minimum requirements will also be rejected.
No allegation that an application form or a document respecting such
form has been lost or delayed in the post can be considered.
15. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disquailfications if the inaccuracy
is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after
selection.
16. If an applicant wishes to apply for the two posts, separate
applications should be submitted.
Final decision on any matter not mentioned herein shall be with
the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice and Labour Relations.
K
AMALINI DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Labour Relations.
Colombo 12,
18th February, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
Application for the Posts of Plumber and Electrician in the
Ministry of Justice and Labour Relations
No. :...............................
(For office use only)
Post applied for
Plumber - 1
Electrician - 2
(Indicate in the relevant box the number given to each post for which
you applied)
01. Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil/English) :–––––––––––––.
02. Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil/English) :–––––––––––––.
03. Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil/English) :––––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
05. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
06. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
07. Gender :–––––––––––––.
08. Whether married or single :–––––––––––––.
09. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualification :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Su bject Grade
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Su bject Grade
11. Vocational qualifications :–––––––––––––.
(As per the notice of calling for applications)
12. Experience :–––––––––––––.
(As per the notice of calling for applications)
13. Other qualifications :–––––––––––––.
14. Applicant’s declaration :
I, ........................................... declare that the particulars furnished
by me in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that, if
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I
am liable to disqualification, if detected before selection and to
dismissal without compensation, if detected after appointment.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I do hereby inform that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. is
serving in this Ministry/Department as .................................. on
permanent/temporary/casual basis and that, according to his/her
personal file, the particulars furnished by him/her in this application
are true and correct and that any disciplinary action against him/her
has been taken/has not been taken and that he/she can be/cannot be
released, if selected for this post.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department
and Official seal.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––––.
03–558

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
450
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Police Constable
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Recruit Police Constable in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by registered post to
the above-mentioned address to reach on or before 29.05.2015 and
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed applications will
be rejected and no applications will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary Scale :
 Rs. 1,71,360 - 7 x 1,740 - 10 x 2,160 - 17x2,880 - Rs. 2,54,100.
Further, these officers are entitled to the cost of living allowance
paid to other public officers and allowances granted in accordance
with the I. G. Police’s Circular No. 2416/2013 dated 07.01.2013. In
addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
monthly allowances :
Rs. cts.
(a) Arduous duty allowances 2,000 0
(b) Combined allowances :
(1) For performance duties in 10,500 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance of duties in other areas 8,400 0
(c) Other allowances :
(1) Uniform cleaning allowance 250 0
(d) Free transport facilities.
(e) Free medical facilities to officers  (Financial assistance
can be obtained for medical treatment even in a foreign
country).
(f) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(g) Facilities to improve their skills and talents in sports.
(h) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be granted
as rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
04. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age Limits. – The age should be between 18 and 28
years as at closing date of the application. However
Security Assistants’ service personal who are serving
in the Police Department are eligible to apply up to
the age of 30 years as at the closing date of applications.
(b) Educational qualifications :
Should have passed 06 subjects including
Mathematics and Medium Language in not more than
two attempts at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
Applicants who are qualified within two attempts
should have passed at least 05 subjects at the first
attempt.
Note 01.– According to the classification of subjects by the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka number
of subjects passed at the examination will be
decided by considering the two science subjects
bearing numbers 41 and 44 as one subject and the
two  Mathematics subjects bearing numbers 42
and 45 as one subject.
Note 02.– Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note 03.– Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G. C. E. (O/L), passes in any of these subjects
will not be computed as a pass in the G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination.
(c) Physical Requirements :
* Height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
* Chest 30 inches (minimum/in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided that they have
skills in sports or have achieved best performance
in sports at national level or they have earned
reputation for Sri Lanka by participating in an
international competition.
(d) Visual Requirement :
Vision should not be less than 6/12with each eye, if the
vision is of 6/6 with one eye and 6/18 with the other eye
it will be accepted. Colour vision should be normal.
Applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses will not
be eligible.
(e) Other Qualifications :
Applicants should be unmarried (Divorcee will be
considered as married). Only this condition will not apply
for those who have fulfilled the other qualifications and
presently serving in the Police Department as Security
Assistants.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
451
05. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will have to
pass in the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department
of Police. Only those who have passed this test must also get
through the physical fitness test such as endurance test.
1,000 meters  – 03 minutes   44 seconds
Only those who are successful in the physical fitness such
as endurance test will be called for final interview. Only
those who score 40% or more will be called for the written
test.
* The written test consists of two question papers.
* An essay paper ; not less than 500 words within 45
minutes.
* General knowledge and intelligence test paper -
1 hour.
06. Medical Test.– Applicant must be passed in the medical test
before obtain his appointment. Medical test is an only one part of
the course of action, with regard to the recruitment process. Selection
will be made among the applicants who have passed in the medical
test, considering the number of existing vacancies and the position
in the list pertaining to the merit and skill. Those who have failed in
the medical test will be rejected.
07. Background Inquiries  :
(a) In view of confirm the conduct of the applicant, inquiries
will be made on the conduct of the applicant, close
relations and friends. If the applicant with the adverse
reports he will be rejected for recruitment ;
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
08. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they enterd the service.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the language test of secondary level conducted by the
Department of Official Language.
* The salary increments of those who fail to pass the second
official language within 5 years from the date of
appointment will be deferred until a pass is obtained.
09. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to a recruit period of three
years ;
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereinafter be made to
give effect to the official language policy of the
Government ;
(c) They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code V olume I and II, Financial Regulations,
Departmental Orders, and any other orders that may be
issued by the Inspector General of Police or by the
Government from time to time ;
(d) Prior to their confirmation of post, every officer will be
requried to pass the prescribed Departmental
Examinations. Those who fail to pass the prescribed
examinations or found to be unfit for Police duties are
liable to dismiss from the service ;
(e) Permission will not be granted to the selected officers to
marry prior  to being confirmed in the said rank without
the permission of the Inspector General of Police.
However in terms of P. G. II No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and
I. G. P.'s Circular No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and
circular (amended) dated 09.08.2007, it is possible to
marry showing special reasons and with the permission
of Inspector General of Police ;
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a recruit period of three (03) years in the
Police Department and if they wish to resign from service
before their recruit period is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing to
pay at the time of tendering their resignation, any amount
which was incurred on the training and uniforms etc.,
together with any other prescribed payments. Director
of Police Training College will decide it having calculated
dues from the applicants. The acceptance of resignation
should conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of V olume I
of the Establishments Code, 1985 ;
(g) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables have
commenced training at the Police Training College, they
should take affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply
with the Police Code of conduct in terms of the  I. G . P.’s
Circular, No. 1693/2003 ;

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
452
(h) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables have
commencement their training at the Police Training College,
they should take the Oath of allegiance to the Public
Service, in terms of the I.G.P.'s Circular, No. 1804/2004 ;
(i) Recruit Police Constables who have been confirmed in
the post will have opportunities for promotions in terms
of the approved scheme of promotions of the Police
Department.
11. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointments to the posts in the Public Service
published in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette ;
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular, No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their applications (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related) ;
(iii) Certificates substantiating of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates substantiating any outstanding sports or
other extra curricular activities ;
(v) A photocopy of certificates of services (if available) ;
(vi) A photocopy of the Identity Card.
13. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service must
forward their applications through the Heads of their
respective Departments and they must be accompanied
with a certificate stating that the officers can be released
if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for to the
address given in paragraph two and under no
circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
14. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
SRI LANKA POLICE DEPARTMENT
P
OST OF POLICE CONSTABLE
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Photocopy of the NIC should de attached)
03. Father's Name in Full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth belongs :
––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police Station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(d) Police Station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
(f) Telephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are a Citizen by Birth or Registration :––––.
(If by Registration attach copies of Certificate)
(c) If you are Citizen by Birth state the Place of Birth :
–––––––––––––.
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's Father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal Grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great Grandfather :––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :––––––––––. (Copy of the birth certificate should
be attached)
Age : (as at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
Chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
453
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
11. Whether Married or Single :––––––––––.
12. ( a) Present employment :––––––––––.
(b) Are you a Member of a Armed Forces ? :––––––––––.
13. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications ? :––––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant :
(a) ––––––––––.
(b) ––––––––––.
15. Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the Sri
Lanka Reserve Police service before ? (If so, under what
circumstances did you leave the service ? Give details) :––––.
16. ( a) Are you serving in any Armed Service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Commander of the respective service) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
17. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ? (If so, your application must be submitted
through the respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed Service ?
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate) :–––––.
18. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
19. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence ? (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or fake, I am aware that I am liable for immediate
termination of my service in the Police Department at any time
even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
03–470
GOVERNMENT   ANALYST'S   DEPARTMENT
Recruitment of External Candidates to the Post of
Laboratory Assistant, Grade III in the Primary Semi -
Technical Service Grade - 2015
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka (both
from male and female) with the under mentioned qualifications to
recruit suitable persons to fill the vacancies in the posts of
Laboratory Assistant. Grade III in the Primary Semi-Technical
Service Grade of the Government Analyst's Department.
02. Recruitments will be made on the order of merit secured at
the practical test and the structured interview to be conducted by
the selection board to be appointed by the Government Analyst.
03. The practical test and the structured interview will be
conducted at the Government Analyst's Department on 2015 by
the selection board to be appointed by the Government Analyst.
04. Method of Recruitment.– The number of existing vacancies in
the post of Laboratory Assistant. Grade III in the Primary Semi-
Technical Service Grade in the Government Analyst's Department
is ten (10). Selection will be made on the basis of merit secured at
the structured interview by the candidates who will obtain the
highest marks at the practical test.
05. Educational, Vocational and Other Qualifications :
05.1 Educational Qualifications :
Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in
six subject in one sitting including Sinhala/Tamil and
Mathematics with at least two credit passes including
Science.
05.2 Vocational Qualifications :
Should have obtained a NVQ Certificate (not less than
Level 2 or level 3) in respect of the relevant field awarded
by a Technical/V ocational Training Institute recognized
by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
05.3 Experience :
Should have two years (02) work experience relating
to the duties to the post obtained from a recognized
institute. Certificates should be furnished in proof of
the experience.
05.4 Should not be less than 18 years and not mroe than 45
years of age as at the closing date of applications. (The
maximum age limit does not apply to officers already
in the Public Service).
05.5 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
05.6 Should be in good mental and physical order and is of
excellent moral character.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
454
05.7 Should have fulfilled the necessary qualifications in
every respect as at the closing date of applications
referred to in this notice.
05.8 Applications of the candidates who have not possessed
the prescribed minimum requirements will be rejected
without notice.
06. Method of application.– Applications should be prepared on
a A4 size papers using one side each as per the specimen appended
at the end of this notice and be filled by the candidate's own legible
handwriting. The duly completed applications should be sent by
the registered post to reach the "Government Analyst, Government
Analyst's Department, No. 31, Isuru Mawatha, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla" on or before 17.04.2015. The words "Laboratory
Assistant - Grade III. Government Analyst's Department" should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing
the application. Applications from officers in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Servie must be forwarded through the Heads of
the Departments/Establishments. Incomplete applications and
applications received after the closing date of the acceptance of
applications are liable to be rejected without notice. Receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged. It would be advisable if a
photocopy of the application is retained with the candidate. It is
essential that in case of applications which are to be prepared
either in Sinhala Language or Tamil Language, the name of the
candidate should also appear in English block capitals. Further, the
applications which are to be prepared in English Language, the
name of the candidate should also appear either in Sinhala or Tamil.
The application to be prepared as per the specimen at the end of
this notice should contain Items 01 to 07 on the first page and the
rest of the Items on the second and third pages as the case may be.
Candidate should see that the completed application is complied
with the specimen as those that are not in compliance wit hthe
specimen are liable to be rejected.
07. Candidates who fail to furnish a satisfactory proof of
qualifications are liable to disqualification if it is detected at the
practical test and structured interview.
08. Final decision of any matter not mentioned herein shall be
with the Government Analyst.
09. Every candidate is required to get his/her signature certified
by a Principal of a Government School, Justice of the Peace,
Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in
the Armed Forces or an Officer holding a permanent post in the
Public Service or Provincial Pubilc Service carrying a salary exceeding
Rs. 237,060 per annum.
10. Selection Procedure :
10.1 Marking Scheme for the practical test.
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. Basic knowledge of the relevant field 20
2. Experience for repair and installation of equipment 20 40%
3. Ability to identify the faults of equipment 40
4. Ability to handle of equipment 20
Candidates will be summoned for the structured interview on the order of merit secured at this practical test.
10.2 Marking Scheme at the structured interview  :
Spheres in respect of which marks are awarded Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. Additional educational qualifications 20
2. Additional experience 35 Not applicable
3. Additional vocational quailfications 20
4. Language proficiency 10
5. Computer literacy 10
6. Performance at the interview 05
Candidates who fulfill the necessary qualifications specified in the Gazette Notification and secure the highest marks at
the practical test and structured interview will be recruited to the posts of Laboratory Assistant, Grade III.
11. Candidates are required to produce the following documents when required to do so by the selection board :
(a) Highest educational and technical qualifications,
(b) Certifictae of birth issued by the Registrar General,
(c) Recently obtained 03 character certificates.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
455
12. Medical Examination.– Selected candidates should present
themselves for a medical examination to establish that they are in
good mental and physical order to serve in any part of the island
and discharge the duties of the post. If any selected candidate is not
certified as physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the
island, the appointment of such candidate will not take effect.
13. Salary Scale.– In terms of the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006 and the subsequent amendments made thereto, this
post which is under PL 2-2006A, carries a salary of Rs. 12,210 -
10x130 -10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,600 per month.
14. Terms of Engagement and Conditions of Service :
14.1 This post is permanent. It is pensionable. Selected
candidates will be on probation for a period of three
(03) years and are liable to contribute to the Widows'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
14.2 Selected candidates are subject to the provisions of the
Establishment Code. Financial Regulations,
Departmental Orders and any other Regulations or
Orders issued from time to time by the Government.
14.3 In order to give effect to the official language policy, a
holder of an appointment who enters the public service
in a medium of language other than in a medium of any
of the official languages will be required to reach within
three (03) years a requisite standard of proficiency in
one official language. Increment of those who do not
succeed at the relevant language proficiency test will
be deferred in the ensuing year.
14.4 As per the Public Administration Circular No. 1/2014,
a holder of an appointment will be required to acquire
within five (05) years from the date of permanent
appointment, a working knowledge of the other official
langauge applicable to the standard of that post than
the official language in which he enters the Public
Service. Increment of those who do not succeed the
standard of the proficiency in the second official
language will be suspended.
14.5 Conditions of recruitments specified in Procedural
Rules of the Public Service Commission published in
the Extra Ordinary Gazette Notification No. 1,589/30
are applicable.
14.6 Selected candidate are recruited to serve in any part of
the island.
15. In the event of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
S. T
ENNAKOON,
Government Analyst.
Government Analyst's Department,
No. 31, Isuru Mawatha,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
2015.
GOVERNMENT  ANALYST'S  DEPARTMENT
R
ECRUITMENT OF EXTERNAL CANDIDA TES TO THE POST OF LABORATORY ASSISTANT, GRADE III IN THE PRIMARY
SEMI-TECHNICAL SERVICE GRADE - 2015
01. ( a) Name with initials in English block capitals : (Initials should appear after the last name)
E. g. : SILV A A. B. C.
(b) Name with initials in Sinhala/Tamil (Initials should appear after the last name)
Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
(c) Names denoted by initials in Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––––.
(d) Names denoted by initials in English block capitals :
02. National Identity Card No. :
03. Gender : Male - 01
Female - 02
(Write the appropriate number in the box)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
456
04. Permanent Address :
(a) (In Sinhala/Tamil) :
(b) (In English block Capitals) :
(Calling letters are to be dispatched to the above address)
(c) District :–––––––––––––.
(d) Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––––––.
(e) Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth : Y ear : Month : Date :
Age as at the closing date of applications : Years : Months :         Days :
06. Whether married or single : Married - 1
Single - 2
(Write the appropriate number in the box)
07. Race : Sinhala - 1,    Tamil - 2,     Others - 3
(Write the appropriate number in the box)
08. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First Attempt Second Attempt
Year :––––––––––––. Year :––––––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
(b) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––.  Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
09. V ocational/Technical Qualifications :
9.1 Degree/Diploma :––––––––––––.
9.2 Institute by which the Degree/Diploma was confeered :––––––––––––.
9.3 Date on which the Degree/Diploma was conferred :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2015
457
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
10. Other Qualifications :––––––––––––.
11. Have you ever been convicted for an offence in a Court Law ? Yes/No :––––––––––––.
11.1 If so, please state the offence committed and the sentence imposed :––––––––––––.
12. Indicate the designation, Department and its address if you are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service :–––––––.
13. State the reason in case you have ceased to continue in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service :––––––––––––.
14. Candidate's declaration :
I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to my knowledge and belief. I am aware that,
if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, if detected before sel ection and to
dismissal without compensation, if detected after appointment. Further, I am bound to abide by the decisions to be taken by the
Government Analyst.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.
15. Certification of the candidate's signature :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................................... is personally known to me. He/she placed his/ her signature
on this ................ day of ..................... 2015 in my presence.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Officers are from the Public Service or Provincial Public Service must forward their applications along with the following
certificate of the Head of the Department)
I do hereby inform that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... is serving in this Ministry/Department as ........... ................ on
permanent/temporary/casual basis with effect from ....../........./......... and that his/her service is satisfactory and that he/she can be/cannot
be released from present position, if selected for this post.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––––.
(The above certificate of the Head of the Department is only applicable for those who are already in the Public Service or
Provincial Public Service).
03–546