

<!-- page 1 -->

1A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
wxl 1713$16 - 2011 cQ,s 07 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2011'07'07
No. 1713/16 –  THURSDAY JULY 07,  2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV(A)  — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial Council Notifications
1A
NORTH   WESTERN   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
North  Western  Provincial  Council Environmental  (Amendment) Statute,
No. 02  of  2011 of the North Western Province
THE  above mentioned statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 19th May, 2011, and
assented by the Governor of North Western Province 22nd June, 2011 is hereby published for the information of the public.
PADMINI KARIYAWASAM,
Secretary,
Provincial Council, North Western Province.
Council Office,
North Western Provincial Council,
Kurunegala,
27th 
 June, 2011.
NORTH   WESTERN   PROVINCE
Statute  To Amend  The North  Western  Provincial  Environmental
Statute No. 12 of 1990
BE it enacted by the North Western Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This Statute may be cited as the North Western Province Environmental (Amendment)
Statute No. 02 of 2011.
2. Section 1 of the North Western Province Environmental Statute No. 12 of 1990 (hereinafter
referred to as “The principal statute” is hereby repealed and the following  section  substituted  therefore.
Short Title
Amendment of
section1 of
the Statute, No.
12 of 1990

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
This statute shall be called and referred to as the North Western Province Environmental Statute
No. 12 of 1990 and  shall come into operation on a date appointed by the  Minister by order published in the
Gazette.
The Chief
Executive and
Chief
administrative
officer of the
Provincial
Authority
Amendment of
section 3 (1) of
the principal
statute
Repeal of
section 17 & 18
of the principal
statute
Replacement
of the section 20
of the principal
statute
Minister to
determine
activities
in respect of
licence
is required under
this statute
Replacement
of the section
11 of the
principal
statute
3.  Paragraph (e) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the principal statute is hereby repealed
and the  following paragraph substituted therefore : -
“(e) The Chairman of the Provincial Authority shall appoint the Director for the
time being of the Authority as the Secretary of such Authority.”
4.   Section 11 of the principal statute is hereby repealed and the following
section substituted therefore:
11.  (1) The Chairman appointed under paragraph (d) of sub-section (1) of section
3 shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Provincial Authority and the
Director shall be Chief  Administrative Officer of the Authority.
    (2)  (a)  The Director of the Provincial Authority shall subject to the general
direction and control of  the Chairman be charged with the administration
of the affairs of the Authority and the administration and control of the
employees of the Authority.
(b) Provincial Authority shall subject to the provisions of 12 (1) of the Statute,
appoint as the Director of the Provincial Authority, a person possessing
educational qualifications in the subject of Environment and having specialized
knowledge in environmental activities.
(c) He shall be paid proper remuneration as prescribed by the Provincial Authority
under sub section (2) of section 12 of this statute.
(d) The Director of the Provincial Authority has the right to participate at the
meetings of  the Authority but he is not entitled to exercise his vote at such
meetings.
5.    Section 17 and 18 of the principal Statute are hereby repealed.
6.    Section 20 of the principal Statute is hereby repealed and the following
                 section substituted therefore:
      “20 (1) The Minister in charge of the subject of Environment shall determine by order
published in the Gazette, the activities in respect of which a licence has to be obtained
under this Statute (hereinafter referred to as “the prescribed activities”) that cause the
emanating to the environment of any waste thereby causing environmental pollution or
noise pollution”.
          (2) No person shall, engage in any prescribed activity unless he is acting –
(a) under the authority of a licence issued by the Provincial
Authority and
(b) in accordance with the standards and criteria prescribed
under this statute”

<!-- page 3 -->

3A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
(3) Any person who is engaged in any prescribed activity in contravention
of the provisions of sub section (2) of this section, shall be guilty of
an offence and shall on conviction-
(a) be liable to a fine of not less than rupees ten thousand or to
imprisonment   for a period of not less than one year or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
(b) Shall obtain a licence issued under Sub-section (2), within
such period as may be determined by the court
(4) Where any person convicted of an offence under the provisions of sub-section
3 continues to carry on the prescribed activity without obtaining a licence with
the period specified in the Court Order, the Court shall order the closure of the
factory or the premises where such prescribed activity is carrying on until such
time such person obtains the required licence and submits a copy of such
licence to the Court.
  7.  Paragraph (b) of sub-section (1) of section 24 of the principal Statute is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “five days” of the words “thirty days”.
8.  Section 62 of the principal statute is hereby repealed and the following section
is substituted therefore :-
“Interpretation” 62. in this Statute unless the context otherwise
requires –
“air pollution” means, an undesirable change in the physical, chemical
or biological characteristics of air which will adversely affect the
plants, animals, human beings and inanimate objects and releasing
to the air of any unpleasant odour or smoke or any air having
undesirable particles which disturbs the normal inhaling and
exhaling process;
“building” means, any houses, factory, wall or any other construction
of whatever description:
“construction” means, any fence, hurdle, gate, beam, wall or any
building:
“environment” means all the physical factors of the surroundings of
the human being including the land, the water, the atmosphere, the
weather the noise, the odour, the taste, and all other biological
factors of animals and plants of every description:
“land” includes dwelling, buildings and all the easements attached
thereto and any state land whether occupied or not made available
by the government:
“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban Council,
Pradeshiya Sabha, or any other Sabha or Institution established in
place thereof :
Amendment of
section 24 (1) b
of the principal
statute
Replacement
of the section
62 of principal
statute

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
“Minister in charge of the subject” means the Minister in charge of
the subject of Environment:
“noise pollution” means the presence of sound at a level which causes
irritation, fatigue, hearing loss or interferes with the perception of
other sounds or with creative activity through distraction :
“pollution” means the causing of adverse effect to the beneficial use
of the environment or the causing of a condition which is hazardous
to public health, public safety or public welfare or causing of any
disturbance to or affects adversely the human beings, wild life or
aquatic life including animals, birds, fish and fauna and flora, by
the discharge, emission dispose or deposit of waste to the
environment:
“territorial waters” means sea beach and the coastal line within the
boundaries of the North Western Province including all reservoirs,
rivers, lakes, canals and springs within the North western Province:
“toxic chemical” means any solid, liquid or gaseous substance which
has harmful effect on living material or which can create hazardous
changes in the environment:
“waste” means unpurified faeces, animal and plant refuse, industrial
and agricultural toxics, carbonic gas, debris from material used for
industrial and business purposes and air, gas or smoke which
contains undesirable particles or has unpleasant odour which is
harmful to public health and the environment:
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Provincial Environmental
Authority.
“Prescribed” means prescribed by regulations.
9.   In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this
statute, the Sinhala  text shall prevail.
07- 538