

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
THAI-SRI  LANKA BUDDHIST CULTURAL
CENTRE (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 43 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 12th October, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 12, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007
1
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Thai-Sri
Lanka Buddhist
Cultural Centre.
[Certified on 12th October 2007]
L.D.—O. (INC) 3/2006.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  THAI -SRI LANKA  BUDDHIST  CULTURAL
CENTRE
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre” has heretofore
been established in Mabima, Heiyanthuduwa for the purpose
of  effectually carrying out and transacting all matters
connected with the said Association :
AND WHEREAS the said Association heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist
Cultural Centre (Incorporation)  Act, No. 43 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Thai-
Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre” (hereinafter referred to
as  “the Centre”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be and become a
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre”
(hereinafter referred to as the “the Corporation”) and by that
name may sue and be sued, with full power and authority to
possess, and use a common seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007
3. The objects of the Corporation shall be —
(a) to maintain and promote religious and cultural
relations between Sri Lanka and Thailand ;
 (b) to promote the interests of Buddhism ;
(c) to foster Theravada Buddhist doctrine and way of
life ;
(d) to provide facilities for the study and the fostering
of Buddhism ;
(e) to encourage the practical observance of the
Buddhism ;
(f) to promote unity and co-operation among Buddhist
organizations and Buddhists, nationally and
internationally ;
(g) to advance the moral, cultural, economic and social
welfare of Buddhists ;
(h) to provide welfare facilities to the needy Buddhists ;
(i) to provide educational and vocational training
facilities to the Buddhists of the community ; and
(j) to co-operate with other associations, societies or
organizations, having objects similar to those of
the Corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to—
(a) open, operate and close bank accounts ;
(b) borrow or raise moneys with or without security ;
General Powers
of the
Corporation.
Objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007
3
 
(c) receive or collect grants or donations ;
(d) invest excess funds  ;
(e) engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants,
for the purpose of carrying out the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation, be
administered by the Executive Committee consisting of the
Chief Patron, President and not more than seven and   not less
than five other members to be elected in accordance with the
rules made under this Act.
(2) The Most Venerable Phra Dhammapariyaththivedi
Maha Thera shall be the Chief Patron of the Corporation.
(3) After the demise or resignation of the said Most
Venerable Phra Dhammapariyaththivedi Maha Thera, the
Executive Committee shall appoint a fit and proper person
for the post of Chief Patron on the recommendation of the
President.
(4) The Venerable Rassagala Seewali Thera shall be the
first President of the Corporation and shall continue to hold
such office until and unless he resigns or vacates.
(5) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Executive Committee of the
Centre holding office on the date of commencement of this
Act.
6. No person shall be elected as a member of the
Executive Committee if he or she—
(a) is not a member of the Corporation ;
(b) is not a Buddhist ;
Disqualification
to be a member
of the Executive
Committee.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007
(c) is a person who having been declared a bankrupt or
insolvent by a court ;
(d) is of unsound mind ; or
(e) has been by any competent court found to have
committed  any offence involving moral turpitude.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the members convened for
the purpose and with the approval of not less than two-thirds
of the members present and voting, to make rules, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other written
law for—
(a) the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of
members ;
(b) offices to be held by members of Executive
Committee and election of the office bearers ;
(c) the conduct and the duties of the executive
committee and of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be observed in the transaction of
business at meetings,
and otherwise generally for the management of the affairs of
the Corporation.
(2) Such rules may be added to, amended or rescinded
in like manner as a rule may be made under subsection (1).
(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing at the
time of the coming into operation of this  Act, shall be paid
by the Corporation, hereby constituted and all debts due to
and subscriptions and contributions payable to the centre,
shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by and
payable to the
Centre.

<!-- page 6 -->

Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007
5
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
money received by way of gift, testamentary disposition,
transfer, donation, contributions,  or fees shall be deposited
in the name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may
be determined by the Executive Committee.
(2) The Corporation may establish any depreciation fund,
reserve or sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,
development and improvement of the property of the
Corporation.
(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercising
and discharging it’s powers and functions shall be paid out
of the Fund.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law and possesses a
certificate to practise as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007
11. The  Corporation may take and hold any movable or
immovable property by right of purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and subject to the rules
of the Corporation may sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same. All properties belong to the
Centre on the date of commencement shall be properties of
the Corporation.
12. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
President and anyone of the members of the Executive
Committee,  who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains, after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other Association or Associations having
objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and which
is or are, by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its or their members. Such
Association or Associations shall be determined by the
members of the Corporation at, or immediately before, the
time of the dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this  Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the republic or of anybody politic or
corporate or any other person.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Corporation may
hold and dispose
properties.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Affixing the seal.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

Thai-Sri Lanka Buddhist Cultural Centre
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 2007
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO   05  befor 15th
                           December each year in respect of the year following.