

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2467
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2462
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"134 – 2019 cQ,s ui 26 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'07'26
No. 2,134  –  fRiday ,  July 26, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th august, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd august, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2459 - B 81545- 5,403 (07/2019)
Note.–    (i) t rust Receipts (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 12, 2019.
 (ii) Excise (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka of July 12, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2460
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2461
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2462
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
Department of the Registrar of Companies
REcRuitmENt foR thE PoSt of lEGal officER 
(ExEcutiVE catEGoRy - GRadE iii)
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the Sri lankan citizens 
who have fulfilled the below mentioned Qualifications, for 
the post of Legal officer Executive Category grade III in the 
department of the Registrar of companies that comes under 
the purview of the ministry of industry and commerce, 
Resettlement of Protracted displaced Persons , co-operative 
development and V ocational training Skills development.
Method of Recruitment.– applicants who obtained 
maximum marks from a Structured interview conducted 
by an interview board appointed by the Public Service 
commission out of applicants who have completed 
qualifications specified in the notice ,will be recruited to 
fill the existing vacancy. The Structured Interview will be 
held in conformity with the marking scheme (under No. 06) 
approved by Public Service commission .the effective date 
of the appointment will be determined by the Public Service 
commission.
1. Required Qualifications :-    
1.1  Educational / Professional Qualifications :
 (i) Being taken oaths as an attorney -at -law in 
the Supreme court.
 (ii) experience.– Should have an active 
professional service period not less than 
3 years after taking oaths as an attorney at 
law.(candidates shall be required to submit 
experience certificates to the interview 
board with clear vision of date of period of 
experience obtained and rubber stamp of 
certified officers proving experience).
  Should have not less than 3 years experience 
in the law field in the following department 
/ institution after taking oaths as an attorney 
at law.
 (1) Should have experience for handling cases 
in the department of attorney- General .
 (2) Should have experience for bonds 
preparation and related legal activities .
 (3) Should have wide knowledge for ordinance 
and current acts and drafting legal 
documents.
 (4) Should have ability to procurement of acts, 
circulars, and other important regulative 
applications available in the Law field.
 (5) to appear and assist for the inquiries that 
will be held by other institutions.
(N:B.– this experience should be Proved by the 
certificate issued by the Head of the relevant 
department.)
 (iii) Physical Qualification.–  Every applicant 
should be physically and mentally fit to serve 
in any part of the island and perform the 
duties in the post.
 (iV) Other Qualifications :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri lanka
 (ii) Should be of excellent character 
 
 (iii) Requisite qualifications for this post should 
have been completed in every aspect as at 
the closing date of application.
03. Service occupying conditions and service conditions :
 i this post is permanent.
 ii this post is pensionable . you are subject to the 
policy decision taken by the Government in the 
future regarding the pensions entitled to you. 
further , you shall contribute for the widows/ 
widowers and orphans pensions scheme . you 
should make contributions as time to time 
ordered by the Government.
 iii this appointment will be subjected to a probation 
period of the (03) years. Officers should pass 
the first efficiency bar examination within three 
years of the appointment as mentioned in the 
Scheme of Recruitment.
 i V in terms of the provision of Public 
administration and the provision and circular's 
No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and incidental 
thereto, the applicant should affirm the obtaining 
of proficiency in official languages within five 
years of recruitment.
 V this appointment will subject to the Procedural 
Rules of Public Services commission and 
amendments and the provisions that have been 
already made and will be made in future to the 
relevant Recruitment Procedure of the post of 
Legal Officer of the Department of the Registrar 
of companies.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2463
04. Age Limit.– Not less than 21 years of age and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of calling applications.
05 Salary Scale.– Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170- Rs. 110,895 monthly salaries will be paid for this post 
(Public administration circular No.03/2016 and Salary code of the Sl- 01-2016)
06. Method of Recruitment.– Structured interview is based on the below marking scheme :
Subject Marks Maximum
Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :
a post Graduate degree in law issued by university recognized by the university Grants 
commission
a post Graduate diploma or post Graduate law diploma not less than one year in the relevant 
field by a recognized Institution
degree in law from a recognized university
first class
Second class (upper)
Second class (lower)
First Class in the final years of Law College
Second Class in the final years of Law College
Note: 05 marks should be given only honorable pass in the final year (marks be given only 
for maximum Qualifications)
25
20
15
10
05
10
05
25
02.Additional Professional Experience :
1. Additional Professional Qualification
Diploma in relevant field offered by a recognized Institute . (10 marks for each diploma)
Diploma of not less than six months or not more than one year in relevant field offered by a 
recognized institute
(05 marks for each one diploma)
Certificate course of not less than 3 months and not more than 06 months in relevant field 
offered by recognized Institute ( 03 marks for each certificate course )
(Except Number 01 category of experience)
11. Additional Experience :
Experience as Attorney at- Law in Government or Private Sector Maximum 25 marks -five 
marks for each year
Not less six months and not more than year -02marks
(Except three years of service period engaged in service as an
Attorney at Law to acquire basic Qualifications)
(Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate issued by an Attorney at Law or 
President's counsel or a judge with a service period not less than 20 years.
The government or private Sector Candidates who have completed the required Qualifications in all 
respect should confirm the additional experience by a certificate of service obtain from the head of 
institute stating that the candidate is currently working in the post of legal framework.
10
25
 
35

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2464
Subject Marks Maximum
Marks
03. Computer Literacy
Should have possessed a degree in information technology as a main subject from a university 
recognized by university Grants commission.
a diploma on information technology not less than one (01) year or 1500 hours from a 
Government Recognized institute.
A Certificate course on information technology of
06 months/ 720 hours
03/months/360 hours
from a government recognized institute.
(Marks to be given only for Maximum Qualifications)
10
07
05
03
10
04 Proficiency of Language
Post graduate /degree/ post llB degree / l.l.B degree studied in English medium.
(all relevant question papers should be answered in English medium)
English language diploma from a university recognized by university Grants commission or 
an institution recognized by the government (01 year or 1500hrs)
English Language Certificate course from a university recognized by University Grants 
commission or an institution recognized by the government
06 months /720 hours
03 month/ 360 hours
(marks to be given only for maximum Qualifications)
15
10
07
05
15
Performance at the interview
1 General knowledge and intelligence
2 Knowledge in modern trends in legal system
3 Skill of express views and personality
05
05
05
15
Total 100
07 Identities of the Applicants. – only those who have completed the applications in all respect are summoned for the 
skill assessment test. Original copies of the certificates and duly certified copies of the certificates should be forwarded at 
the interview .
to certify the identity of the candidates at the interview , the identity cards mentioned below are accepted.
 i National identity card issued by the commissioner of the department of the Registration of Persons.
 ii Valid Passport 
08. Method of Applications :
 (I) All the duly filled applications should be sent to the below mentioned address
  Registrar General of companies
  department of the Registrar of companies
  No . 400, “Samagam madura” d.R. Wijewardena mawatha,
  colombo 10.
  by the registered post to reach on or before 26.08 2019. applications which receive after the closing date, will 
be rejected.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2465
 (ii) applications should be prepared in 22-29 c.m. 
a4 papers. applications should be prepared as 
item No. 1.1 to 5.1 in the first page from 5.2 to 
7.0 in the second page and from item No. 8, 9 
in the third page and it should be clearly filled 
in applicants own hand writing.
 (iii) “Application for the post of the Legal Officer 
in the department of Registrar of companies 
should be mentioned at the top left corner of 
the envelope enclosing the application.
 (iV) the signature of the applicant should be 
attested by a Principal of a Government 
school/ Justice of the Peace/ commissioner 
of oaths/ an attorney at law / Notary Public/ 
Commissioned Officer of three armed forces, 
a officer holding a permanent post in public 
service drawing consolidated monthly salary 
of Rs .47,615 or above
 (V) candidates who are already in the Public 
Service or Provincial Public Service, Should 
forward their applications through the 
respective heads of their department in which 
they are serving at present.
 (Vi)  the applications which are not conformed to 
the prescribed specimen application will be 
rejected. No complaints will be admitted on 
loss or delay of the applications.
9. Furnishing false particulars.– if any of the particulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before- 
the Recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. in case 
of such falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment, 
action will be taken to discontinue your service, subject to 
relevant disciplinary actions being taken.
10. The power of filling or not filling the vacancies is 
vested with the Public Service commission.
11. in case of any inconsistency between the notice 
published in Sinhala , tamil and English languages the 
notice published in Sinhala languages shall prevail.
12. in case of any problematic issue arises ever the 
recruitment procedure or the contents of the notice, the 
decision taken by the Public Service commission will be 
final.
By order of the Public Services commission.
 Secretary,
 ministry of industry and commerce, 
 Resettlement of Protracted displaced 
 Persons, co- operative development and 
 V ocational training Skill development.
11th July, 2019.
SPEcimEN aPPlicatioN
executive Service category - Structured interview for 
the recruitment for the PoSt of LegaL officer 
grade iii -2018
dePartment of the regiStrar of comPanieS
(For Office Use only)
01. 1.1 full Name (in Block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (eg. : hERath mudiyaNSElaGE SamaN 
KumaRa GuNaWaRdENa )
 1.2 Last name first with Initials at the end (In Block 
capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (GuNaWaRdENa, h.m.S.K) 
 1.3 full Name :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala /tamil)
 1.4 National identity card No. :
02. 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in Block capital)
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala / tamil) 
 2.3 address to send the admission card :––––––––––.
  (in Block capitals)
03. 3.1 Gender :
  female -1             male-0
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 date of Birth:
  y ear month date

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2466
 3.3  age as at .................. 2019 
    y ears  months days
 3.4 t elephone Number :
4.0 4.1 Educational Qualifications :
  The details of educational certificates related to the 
university degree or details related to taking oaths 
as an attorney at law in the Supreme court;
 (i) university or institute   :–––––––––––.
 (II) Degree or Name of the Educational Certificate 
:–––––––––––.
 (III) Valid date of the Degree Certificate or the 
Educational Certificate :–––––––––––.
 (iV) class :–––––––––––.
5.0 Experience in the field (Law) :–––––––––––.
6.0 Experience in the computer Sector :–––––––––––.
7.0 Other Educational Professional Qualifications :––––––.
8.0 Proficiency in English language :–––––––––––.
9.0 have you been convicted before a court of law :
 y es                           No
  P  (indicate in the relevant cage)
 	(if yes Explain) :–––––––––––.
10.0  declaration of the applicant:
 (a) i do hereby honourly declare that the particulars 
given by me in this application are true and 
correct. i agree to bear the loss may be incurred 
by incomplete and/ or false completion of any part 
of this, further, i declare that all the parts in the 
application are completed accurately.
 (b) if my declaration is found to be false, i am liable to 
be disqualified before selection and to dismissal if 
detected after the appointment.
 (c) further, i declare that i am bound to abide by 
the condition enacted by the Public Services 
commission pertaining to the holding of this 
structured interview.
 (d) i will make no alternations in the future to any fact 
mentioned in the application .
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
11.0  attestation of applicants Signature :
i certify that mr/mrs/ms. ........................................ who 
is submitting this application is personally known to me. 
he/She has placed his/her signature in my presence on 
this............... day ................................................
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester.
date :–––––––––––.
full Name of the attester :–––––––––––.
Position :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Should be supported by the official frank)
12.0 attestation of the head of the department / institution: 
(for applicants of Public/provincial Public /Govt. 
corporations only)
i hereby certify that mr/mrs/miss .............................. 
who is working in this ministry / department/ institution, 
is presently working in the post of ........................... and                 
his/her work and conduct are satisfactory , no disciplinary 
action pending against him/her and no decision has been 
taken to impose any such in future . he/She can/ cannot be 
released from the service once he/she is selected for.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department or 
 Authorized Officer.
  (Official Seal)
date  :–––––––––––.
07–956

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2467
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
DISASTER mANAGEmENT AND RuRAL 
ECONOmIC AffAIRS
Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I 
of Public management Assistants’ 
Service - 2015 (I) 2019
1.0 it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar 
Examination for officers in Class I of the Public 
management assistants' Service will be held by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in the month of 
November 2019 as per the provisions of Section 8 and 
15 of the Public management assistants’ Service minute 
(interim provisions) published in the Gazette extraordinary 
of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka No. 1840/34 
dated 11.12.2013 and annex 06. 
 
2.0  (i) Officers who have earned five salary increments 
on completion of an active and satisfactory service 
of five years after promotion to Grade I before 
the implementation of this service minute shall 
be exempted from the requirement of passing the 
efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade I 
under this service minute.
 (ii) A period of concession of five years from the 
effective date of this service minute shall be 
given to the officers, who have not earned five 
salary increments on completion of an active and 
satisfactory period of five years from the date of 
promotion to Grade i, even though they have been 
promoted to Grade i before the implementation of 
this Service Minute, to pass the relevant efficiency 
bar examination prescribed for Grade i under this 
Service minute.
3.0 This examination for officers in Grade I of Public 
management assistants' Service will be held in colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, matara, Jaffna, mannar, mullaitivu, 
trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, 
Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. the relevant towns 
and town numbers are given below. the commissioner 
General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel a 
centre due to insufficient number of applicants or other 
reason and decide the centre according to the second 
preference of the applicants at his discretion. If a sufficient 
number of candidates have not applied to have examination 
centers in all the proposed towns or in the majority of towns, 
the commissioner General of Examinations shall make 
arrangements to conduct the examination only in colombo. 
the relevant section of the application shall be completed 
according to the table in which towns and town numbers are 
indicated. it will not be allowed to change the town applied 
for subsequently.
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
matara 04
Jaffna 05
mannar 06
mullaitivu 07
trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
 
4.0 (i) this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the applicants shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him.
 (ii) the rules and regulations for applicants 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates shall be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
5.0 Qualifications.– Officers who have been appointed to 
Grade i of Public management assistants’ Service shall be 
qualified to sit for this examination.
Note.–  this examination shall be passed within 05 
years from the date of promotion to Grade i.
Provisions for Provincial management assistants’ 
Service shall be issued by the relevant Provincial Public 
Service commissions and provisions shall be issued by 
the relevant institutions for other institutions concurrently 
to this Gazette Notification. In order to identify the 
applications of the officers in each Provincial Public Service 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2468
and other institutions conveniently, code number should be 
used. Accordingly, for the officers in combined service code 
number is 10. this number should be entered in the upper 
right side of the application where you have to mention the 
service you belong to. (The responsibility is not taken for the 
issues caused by the Non submission of the correct number)
6.0 the application for this examination should be in the 
form of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants 
should prepare the applications themselves according to the 
specimen. applications prepared thus should be sent by the 
registered post through the respective heads of departments 
to reach the
Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organizations (Institution and foreign 
Examination) branch,
Department of Examinations,
PO.1503,
Colombo
on or before 26
th of august 2019. The name of the 
examination should be indicated in the top left hand corner 
of the envelop of the application which is forwarded to 
the Commissioner General of examinations. applications 
received after the closing date and applications in which the 
relevant details have not been furnished shall be rejected.
7.0 (i) Identity of the Applicants.- applicants shall be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
for this purpose, one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor.
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) a  valid Passport
 (iii) a  valid Sri lankan driving license
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above mentioned documents might be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations. 
the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations in 
conducting the examination. applicants shall be subjected 
to any punishment imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
(ii) Penalty    for   furnishing    false   in   formation.– the   applicant   
should  be very careful to include the correct  particulars in 
the application. if it is found that any applicant is not eligible 
according to the rules and regulations of this examination 
his/her candidature can be cancelled at any time before, 
during or after the examination.
8.0 (i) Applications.– applications should be prepared in 
a paper of a4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 
6.0 appears on the first page and the other paragraphs on 
the other pages. the application could be typewritten but 
should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's own 
handwriting. application should strictly conform to the 
specimen appended and candidates are advised as not to 
send more than one application or photocopies. applications 
that do not comply with the specimen and that have not 
been perfected properly shall be rejected without notice. 
Please indicate the title of the examination appearing on 
the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala 
and tamil application forms. it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/her self complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the completed application form.
(ii) the candidates appearing for the examination for 
the first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, Rs. 500/= for the whole examination or 
for more than one subject and Rs. 250/= for only one subject 
should be paid at any post office/ sub post office island-
wide or any Divisional or District Secretariat office to be 
credited to revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. the receipt obtained thus should 
be affixed to the relevant cage of the applications form. It 
is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the 
candidate. further, stamps or money orders are not accepted 
for examination fees.
9.0 (i) all applicants who have paid prescribed 
examination fees and forwarded their applications on 
or before the prescribed date will be allowed to sit 
the competitive examination, by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, on the presumption that only 
those who possess qualifications as indicated in the Gazette 
Notification have forwarded their applications. A   notification 
will   be   published   in  newspapers   as  soon as the  admission    cards 
are  issued      to   the    candidates    by   the   department   of   Examinations. 
if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of 
such advertisement, steps should be taken to inquire from 
the foreign Examination Branch of department of 
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement 
you are informed to inquire from the department of 
Examinations, mentioning the name of the examination, 
full name of the applicant, address and the Nic number 
of the applicant. it would be advisable for candidates 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request to the 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2469
department of Examinations through fax indicating the 
above details and a fax number for sending a copy of the 
admission. it would be advisable to keep a copy of the 
application and a copy of the receipt relevant to payment of 
examination fee in hand, if any while making the inquiry.
Note: issuance of an admission card to an applicant does 
not necessarily mean that the applicant has fulfilled 
the qualifications to sit for the examination.
(ii) applicant should get their signature on the admission 
card attested in advance.
(iii) applicant should surrender the attested admission 
card to the supervisor of the examination hall on the first day 
of the examination.
10.0 the heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner-General of Examinations to enable 
them to appear for the examination. No traveling expenses 
will be paid.
11.0 the written test shall be held in Sinhala, tamil & 
English media. The officers may answer three question 
papers either in the language medium in which they sat for 
the entry examination to the service or in one of the official 
languages. candidates who entered the service without 
a competitive examination may answer three question 
papers in their medium of education or in one of the 
official languages. The language medium of examination, 
mentioned originally in the application, cannot be changed 
subsequently.
12.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at 
different occasions at their discretion. however they should 
score at least 40% of the total marks for each subject, for a 
pass. (Refer annex 06 of the Public management assistants’ 
Service minute)
13.0 department of Examinations shall release the 
results of the examination to the director General of 
combined Services, ministry of Public administration, 
disaster management and Rural Economic affairs. Names 
of the applicants who have passed the examination shall 
be published on the web site of the ministry of Public 
administration, disaster management and Rural Economic 
affairs.
14.0 examination Procedure.– applicants should sit 
for a written examination that will consist of the following 
subjects.
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
Cut off 
marks
1 Establishment 
Procedure and 
Procedural 
Rules
100 01 1/2 
hours
01 40
2 Public finance 
management
100 01 1/2 
hours
02 40
3 current trends 100 01 hour 03 40
14.1 Establishment Procedure and Procedural Rules
 this paper shall consist of two parts and one shall 
consist of the questions to test the proficiency 
of the experience gained on the knowledge of 
fundamentals of office systems, their importance, 
written communication, documentation and 
compiling formats and office activities. The other 
part shall consist of questions to test the knowledge 
on practical knowledge on matters contained in 
V olume i and ii of the Establishments code and 
V olume i of the Procedural Rules of Public Service 
commission.
Part i - this is a question paper consisting of 
multiple choice questions. duration is 30 
minutes. (25 marks)
Part ii - this is a question paper consisting of semi 
structured essay type questions. three 
questions out of four shall be answered. 
duration is 60 minutes. (75 marks)
14.2 Public finance management
 it is expected to test the candidates’ knowledge on 
the subjects in government departments, offices 
and ministries such as financial control, custody 
of public money, revenue and payment, budget 
estimates, supply and services (basic knowledge 
on board of survey and store keeping, financial 
regulations and auditing and basic banking practice)
Part i - this is a question paper consisting of 
multiple choice questions. duration is 30 
minutes. (25 marks)
Part ii - this is a question paper consisting of semi 
structured essay type questions. three 
questions out of four shall be answered. 
duration is 60 minutes. (75 marks)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2470
14.3  Current trends
 t his paper shall consist of a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledge on current, local and international 
events and a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledge on new trends on office management, service 
delivery of public sector and good governance. this question paper shall consist of multiple choice questions 
and semi structured essay type questions. (all the questions shall be answered)
15.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services shall be final in any matter not provided for in this 
notification.
16.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 K. V . P. m. J. gamage,
 director General of combined Services.
ministry of Public administration,
 disaster management and Rural Economic affairs, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
12th of July, 2019.
(For Office use only)
SPEcimEN aPPlicatioN foRm
efficiency Bar examination for officerS in grade i of
PuBLic management aSSiStantS' Service - 2015(i) 2019
(Only the officers in Grade I of Public Management Assistants’ Service which belongs to the combined 
Service are qualified to apply as per this examination notification)
 the service to which you belong
 (Please refer the note of para 5.0 of the Gazette
 Notification carefully before filling this section)
 language medium of examination
 Sinhala  - 2 
 tamil  - 3 
 English  - 4
 (indicate the relevant number in the box)
1.0  1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (e.g. : hERath mudiyaNSElaGE SamaN KumaRa  GuNaWaRdhaNa) 
 1.2  Name with initials at the end (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (e.g. : GuNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.S.K)
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.0   Name and address of the Service Station :
 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In block capitals) :–––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(indicate the town in which you intend to sit the examination 
according to your preference as per Section 3.0 of the 
Gazette notification) (This cannot be altered subsequently)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2471
3.0   Gender :
  female  - 1
  male  - 0  
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0   N.i.c. :
5.0  mobile Number :
6.0   Subject/s you are offering :
Subject Subject No.
7.0  Post held at present:
 7.1 Post :––––––––––.
 7.2 appointment letter Number :––––––––––. 
 7.3 date of appointment to Grade i of Public 
management assistants’ Service :––––––––––.
8.0 8.1  Are you sitting the examination for the first time? 
:––––––––––.
 8.2 if not, examination fee paid :––––––––––. 
 8.3 Post office/ sub post office island-wide or any 
Divisional/ District Secretariat office :––––––––.
 8.4 Receipt Number :––––––––––.
 8.5 date :––––––––––.
One edge of the receipt should be affixed so as 
not to be detached 
(it is advisable to keep a photo copy of the receipt)
9.0  declaration of the applicant :
i declare that the information furnished above is correct 
and i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above and it is not necessary to pay the 
examination fee since i am sitting for the examination for 
the first time/ the receipt issued on payment of examination 
fee of Rs. ...................... to the post office/ sub post office 
island-wide or any Divisional/ District Secretariat office 
............... on ................. is affixed above. I agree to abide 
by the decisions made by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on conducting of the examination and all the 
provisions of the Examination act.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.
Note: candidate should place his/her signature in the 
presence of his/her respective head of department 
or an officer assigned to sign on behalf of him.
Attestation of Signature
i certify that mr./mrs./miss ............................ who is 
an employee of my office and who is personally known to 
me placed his/her signature in my presence on ................... 
Since he/she is sitting for the examination for the first time 
it is advisable to exempt him/ her from the examination 
fee/ has paid the examination fee and the receipt has been 
affixed.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of 
 the person attesting.
Name :––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––. 
Certificate of the Head of the Department
i certify that,
 (i) The information furnished above were verified 
and,
 (ii) The officer belongs to the Combined Service,
 (iii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the 
examination previously,
 (iv) The officer has appeared for the examination 
previously and * he/she has affixed the receipt of 
the fees for the relevant examination,
 (v) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
* (Delete inapplicable words)
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 head of the department
Name :––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––. 
07–955

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2472
mINISTR y Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
DISASTER mANAGEmENT  AND RuRAL  
ECONOmIC Aff AIRS
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 
II of Public management Assistants' Service - 
2013(II) 2019
1.0   it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for the officers in Grade II of Public Management 
assistants' Service will be held by the commissioner - 
General of Examinations in the month of November 2019 
as per provisions of Para 8, para 15, interim provisions and 
provisions in annex 05 of the approved service minute of 
Public management assistants' Service published in the 
Government Gazette of the democratic Socialists Republic 
of Sri lanka bearing No. 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013.  
2.0 (I) Officers who have not completed the Efficiency 
Bar Examination for the officers in Grade II, mentioned in 
the previous service minute, but have passed or exempted 
from either both or one of the subjects of this examination 
namely (1) Office Systems and Procedures (2) Accounting 
Systems used in the Government Offices shall be exempted 
from the relevant subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination 
for officers in Grade II mentioned in this Service Minute, on 
subject to subject basis.
(II) Officers who have been promoted to Grade II before 
the date of implementation of this Service minute, should 
pass the Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade II 
before the lapse of six (06) years from the date of promotion.
3.0  This examination for officers in Grade II of the 
Public management assistants' Service will be held 
in colombo, Kandy, Galle, matara, Jaffna, mannar, 
mullaitivu, trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, 
anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. the 
list of relevant towns and town numbers are given below. 
the commissioner - General of Examinations reserves the 
right to cancel any center due to insufficiency of candidates 
or any other reason and decide an alternative as per the 
candidate's second preference of towns. the relevant section 
of the application should be filled by referring to the table of 
towns and town numbers given below. it will not be allowed 
to change subsequently the town/towns indicated.
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Town Town No.
matara 04
Jaffna 05
mannar 06
mullaitivu 07
trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
4.0 (i) this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and the candidates 
will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with 
regard to the same.
(ii) the rules and regulations for candidates have been 
separately printed in the Gazette Notification . candidates 
will be subjected to any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner - General of Examinations for violation of 
these rules and regulations.
5.0 eligibility.– Officers who have been appointed to 
posts in Grade ii of Public management assistants' Service 
are eligible to appear for this examination. this examination 
should be passed within three years from the date of 
promotion to Grade ii.
Note: Provisions for provincial management assistants' 
Service shall be issued by the relevant Provincial 
Public Service commissions and provisions shall 
be issued by the relevant institutions for other 
institutions concurrently to this Gazette Notification. 
In order to identify the applications of the officers in 
each provincial public service and other institutions, 
conveniently code number should be used. 
accordingly, for the officers in combined service 
code number is 10. this number should be entered 
in the upper right side of the application where you 
have to mention the service you belong to.
(the responsibility is not taken for the issues caused by 
the Non submission of the correct number )
6.0 the application for this examination should be 
in the form of the specimen appended to this notification 
and should be prepared by the candidate him/her self. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2473
applications should be sent by the Registered post through 
the respective heads of departments to reach the
Commissioner - General of Examinations,
Organization (Institution and foreign 
 Examination) branch,
Department of Examinations,
PO 1503,
Colombo.
on or before 26th of august 2019. the name of the 
examination should be indicated at the top left hand corner 
of the envelope containing the application. applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected. incomplete 
applications, too, will not be accepted.
7.0 Identity of the Candidates.– candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
for this purpose one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card
 (ii) a valid Passport
 (iii) a valid driving license
the candidature of those who fail to produce any 
of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled 
at the discretion of the commissioner - General of 
Examinations. all candidates are bound to comply with 
the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination with regard to the conducting of 
this examination. further, candidates will be subjected to 
the punishment imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for violation of those rules and regulations,
8.0 (i) Applications.- applications should be prepared 
in a paper of "a4" size in such a manner that Para nos. 1.0 
to 6.0 appears on the first page. The application could be 
typewritten but it should be filled in correctly and legibly 
by candidate's own handwriting. application should strictly 
conform to the specimen appended and candidates are 
advised not to send more than one application or photocopies. 
applications that do not comply with the specimen and that 
have not been perfected properly will be rejected without 
notice therefore it is the responsibility of the applicant to 
make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself 
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice 
and the application is perfected  accurately including all the 
particulars and the prescribed examination fee has been paid 
and the relevant particulars are included in the application 
and the receipt is affixed. Please indicate the title of the 
examination appearing the specimen in English language 
as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application forms. it 
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form.
Penalty for furnishing false information.– application 
should be perfected very carefully with correct information. 
if a candidate is found to be ineligible in accordance with 
the rules and regulations of this examination, his/ her 
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to, 
during or after the examination.
(II) Officers appearing for the examination for the 
first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, Rs. 500/= for the whole examination 
and Rs. 250/= for only one subject should be paid at any 
post office/ sub post office island-wide or any Divisional 
or District Secretariat office to be credited to revenue head 
20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations. 
The receipt obtained thus should be affixed to the relevant 
cage of the applications form. it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. it is 
kindly informed that no fee shall be charged in addition to 
the examination fee. it will not be allowed to transfer the 
fee paid for this examination in favor of another. further, 
stamps or money orders are not accepted for examination 
fees.
9.0 the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue copies of the time table and admission cards to the 
officers who have sent the applications on or before the 
closing date, which are perfected accurately along with 
the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee on the 
supposition that only those who possess the qualifications 
indicated in the Gazette notification have applied. A 
notification will be published in newspapers as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to the candidates by the 
department of Examinations. if the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department of Examinations, 
organizations (institution and foreign) Examination) 
Branch in the manner specified in the advertisement. It 
would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time 
of calling the department of Examinations: i.e. a copy of 
the application from kept at your possession, copy of the 
receipt obtained at payment of Examination fee, name, 
address, national identity card number and the name of the 
examination. in case of the applicants outside colombo, 
letter of the request furnishing the above particulars and a 
fax number to which a copy of the admission card is to be 
send to the Department of Examination through fax. Officers 
who sit for the examination should get their signature on 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2474
the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the 
supervisor of the examination hall.
Note: issuance of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled 
the qualifications to sit for the examination.
10.0 the admission card in which the signature have 
been attested should be produced to the supervisor of the 
examination center on the first day of the examination.
11.0 the heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations, enabling 
them to appear for the examination. No traveling expenses 
will be paid.
12.0 the signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card shall have been attested by 
the Head of the Institution or an officer authorized by him.
13.0 this examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English media. candidates should answer both question 
papers in the language medium in which they sat for the 
entry examination to the relevant service or in an official 
language. in case of candidates who entered the service 
without a competitive Examination, both papers should be 
answered in the language medium of their education or in 
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the 
language medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
14.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject 
and at different occasions at their discretion. however, they 
should score at least 40% of the total marks allocated for 
each subject for a pass. (for further details, refer to annex 5 
of Public management assistants' Service minute.)
15.0  For the purpose of the official language policy, all 
officers should prepare and fill the application forms in the 
official language.
16.0 the department of Examination will issue the 
result sheet including the results of all the candidates who 
have sat for the examination to the director General of 
combined Services, ministry of Public administration, 
disaster management and Rural Economic affairs. the lists 
of name of the candidates who have passed the examination 
will be published in the web site of the ministry of Public 
administration, disaster management and Rural Economic 
affairs.
17.0 examination Procedure.– candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the following 
subjects.
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
1 Office systems and 
procedure 
100 02 hours 01
2 accounting Systems 
adopted in the 
Government offices
100 02 hours 02
total 200
17.1  Office Systems and Procedure
 this paper is intended to test the candidate's 
knowledge of office systems adopted in 
government offices and his /her ability of practical 
application of the knowledge. this paper consists 
of two parts.
Part i - a paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part ii - a paper of semi-structured type 
questions, 03 out of 04 questions should 
be answered, duration is 90 minutes, 75 
marks.
17.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government 
Offices.
 candidate's knowledge in accounting Systems 
adopted in government offices, books and records 
controlling accounts and orders and instructions 
of the treasury issued in relation to that and 
his /her ability of practical application of the 
knowledge will be tested. this paper consists of 
two parts.
Part i - a paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part ii - a paper of semi-structured type questions, 
03 out of 04 questions should be 
answered, duration is 90 minutes, 75 
marks.
18.0  the decision of the director General of combined 
Services will be final, in respect of any matter not provided 
for in this notification.
4

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2475
17.0 examination Procedure.– candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the following 
subjects.
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
1 Office systems and 
procedure 
100 02 hours 01
2 accounting Systems 
adopted in the 
Government offices
100 02 hours 02
total 200
17.1  Office Systems and Procedure
 this paper is intended to test the candidate's 
knowledge of office systems adopted in 
government offices and his /her ability of practical 
application of the knowledge. this paper consists 
of two parts.
Part i - a paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part ii - a paper of semi-structured type 
questions, 03 out of 04 questions should 
be answered, duration is 90 minutes, 75 
marks.
17.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government 
Offices.
 candidate's knowledge in accounting Systems 
adopted in government offices, books and records 
controlling accounts and orders and instructions 
of the treasury issued in relation to that and 
his /her ability of practical application of the 
knowledge will be tested. this paper consists of 
two parts.
Part i - a paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part ii - a paper of semi-structured type questions, 
03 out of 04 questions should be 
answered, duration is 90 minutes, 75 
marks.
18.0  the decision of the director General of combined 
Services will be final, in respect of any matter not provided 
for in this notification.
4
19.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 K.V .P.m.J. gamage,
 director General of combined Services.
ministry of Public administration,
disaster management and Rural Economic affairs, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
12th of July, 2019.
(For Office use only)
SPEcimEN aPPlicatioN foRm
efficiency Bar examination for officerS in grade ii of PuBLic management aSSiStantS' Service - 2013(ii) 2019
(As per this exam notification, only the officers in Grade II of Public Management Assistants' Service of the 
Combined Services shall be eligible to forward applications)
 the service to which you belong
 (Please refer the note of para 5.0 of the Gazette
 Notification carefully before filling this section)
 medium of examination
 Sinhala  - 2 
 tamil  - 3 
 English  - 4
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0  1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (e.g. : hERath mudiyaNSElaGE SamaN KumaRa  GuNaWaRdhaNa) 
 1.2  Name with initials at the end (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (e.g. : GuNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.S.K)
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.0   Name and address of the Service Station :
 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In block capitals) :–––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
3.0   Gender :
  female  - 1
  male  - 0  
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0  National identity card No. :
5.0 Contact Number : Mobile :                      Office :
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(indicate the name and the number of the town in which you 
wish to sit for the examination as per Para 3.0 of the Gazette 
notification) (This cannot be changed subsequently)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2019
2476
6.0  Subject/s for which you appear :
Subject Subject No.
7.0 Present Post :
 7.1 Post :––––––––––.
 7.2 Number of the letter of appointment :–––––––––.
 7.3 date of entry into Grade ii of Public management 
assistants' Service :––––––––––.
8.0 8.1  Are you sitting the examination for the first time? 
:––––––––––.
 8.2 if not, examination fee paid :––––––––––. 
 8.3 Post office/ sub post office island-wide or any 
Divisional/ District Secretariat office :––––––––.
 8.4 Receipt Number :––––––––––.
 8.5 date :––––––––––.
Affix the receipt securely here 
(it would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
9.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
i declare that the information furnished above is correct 
and i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above and it is not necessary to pay the 
examination fee since i am sitting for the examination for 
the first time/ the receipt issued on payment of examination 
fee of Rs. ......................... to the Post Office/Sub Post Office 
island-wide or any Divisional/ District Secretariat Office 
..................... on ........................ is affixed above. I agree to 
abide by the decisions made by the commissioner General 
of Examinations on conducting of the examination and all 
the provisions of the Examination act.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of candidate.
date :––––––––––.
Note: the candidate should sign in the presence of the 
head of his/her department/ institution or an 
officer authorized to sign on behalf of such Head 
of department.
Attestation of the Signature
i certify that mr. / mrs. / miss ..........................................
who is an officer in my office and who is known to me 
personally, placed his / her signature in my presence on  
................... Since he/ she sit for the examination for the 
first time, it is not necessary for him/her to paid the relevant 
examination fee and that the receipt has been affixed.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 person attesting
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department 
i certify that,
 i. the particulars furnished by the candidate have 
been examined;
 II. This officer belongs to combined services;
 III. The officer has* appeared/not appeared for the 
examination earlier;
 IV . *He/she has affixed the receipt obtained by paying 
the relevant fee to this application form since 
*he/she has appeared for the examination and;
 V . the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
* (Delete inapplicable words)
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 head of the department.
Name :––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––. 
07–954
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.