

<!-- page 1 -->

69 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014.07.18
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
wxl 1"872 - 2014 cQ,s 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'07'18
No. 1,872 – FRIDAY , JULY 18, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... 70
69
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th August, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th July,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www. documents. gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B. :—  Part IV (A)  of the Gazette No. 1,871 of 11.07.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

70  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014.07.18
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
Miscellaneous Notices
An Act to Incorporate
"Sandya Siriwardhana Foundation"
I, Lalith Dissanayake do hereby give notice under Standing Order
No. 48 of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in
Paliament a Bill entitled ‘‘An act to incorporate the Sandya
Siriwardhana Foundation.’’
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Sandya Siriwardana
Foundation which has the following General Objects :-
(a) to assist the relevant authorities to promote sustainable
development in the Country by providing assistance and
apportunities to the less privileged and unemployed persons
secure employment according to their skills and talents in order
to uplift their standards of living :
(b) to assist the relevant authorities to help the needy children and
youth by providing them with apportunities to learn creative
arts that would assist in bringing out positive change in their
mental and physical well being ;
(c) to assist the relevant authorities to organize free medical camps
and clinics and distribution of free medicine to the needy and
underprivileged persons; etc
Hon. Lalith Dissnayake,
Member of Parliament,
PKegalle District.
07-571
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.