

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.08.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1718$32 - 2011 wf.daia;= 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'08'12
No. 1718/32  -  FRIDAY   AUGUST  12,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT, No. 14  OF  2008
Order  under Sub-Section of (4) of Section 3
BY VIRTUE of the powers vested in me by Sub-section (4) of Section 3 of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No 14 of
2008 as amended, I, Basil Rohana Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Development, do by this Order declare that , –
1. The Notification containing the relevant information of a Project to establish a modern steel mill with
state-of-the-art technology, to upgrade the plant capacity of the existing factory at Athurugiriya which was
identified as a Strategic Development Project for the purpose of aforesaid Act, was published in Gazette
Extraordinary  No. 1708/1 dated 30th May, 2011 ;
2. The Approval of Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained in terms of Sub-section (3) of Section 3 to declare the
project to establish a modern steel mill with state-of-the-art technology, to upgrade the plant capacity of the
existing factory at Athurugiriya ;
3. The above Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as a “ Project to establish a modern steel mill
with state-of-the-art technology, to upgrade the plant capacity of the existing factory at Athurugiriya” ;
4. The aforesaid Project shall commence the Expansion Unit with effect from the date of the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) signed with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka on 19th May, 2011 ; and
5. The exemption of the enactments specified in the Schedule to this order shall apply to the Project Company
subject to the limitations specified therein and shall be operative for the duration specified in this Schedule.
SCHEDULE
(a) Inland Revenue Act,  No. 10 of 2006 and its amendments
A ten (10) year tax holiday period under Inland Revenue Act commencing from either the first year in which the
project company makes taxable profit or two years from the date of commencement of the operations of the new
mill by the project company whichever becomes earlier. Thereafter, there will be a partial exemption granted
equivalent to half of the applicable tax rate prevailing at that time for each year of assessment for a further period
of five (5) years immediately succeeding the last date of the ten year tax holiday period. For avoidance of doubt

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.08.2011
2A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA
it is to be noted that the general tax regime then prevailing shall be applicable in relation to the project company
after the expiration of the fifteen (15) years as set out above.
However, Economic Service Charge will be applicable at the rate of 0.25% as per the Economic Service Charge Act
No. 13 of 2006.
(b) The Value Added Tax Act, (V AT) No. 14 of 2002 and its amendments
The payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) on the importation of project related capital goods and construction
items will be exempted during the project implementation period of five (5) years with the approval of the Board
commencing from the date of MOU entered into between the project company and the Board of Investment in
this regard.
(c) The Port and Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The payment of Port and Airport Development Levy on the importation of project related capital goods and
construction items will be exempted during the said project implementation period of five (5) years with the
approval of the Board commencing from the date of MOU entered into between the project company and the
Board of Investment in this regard.
(d) Nation Building Tax Act, No. 10 of 2011
The payment of Nation Building Tax on the importation of project related capital goods and construction items
will be exempted during the said project implementation period of five (5) years with the approval of the Board
commencing from the date of MOU entered into between the project company and the Board of Investment  in
this regard.
(e) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to importation of project related capital goods and construction
items other than the items mentioned in the negative list. However items in the negative list will be considered if
quantity of such goods are not available in the local market, as approved by the Board of Investment during the
said project implementation period of five (5) years commencing from the date of MOU entered into between the
project company and the Board of Investment of Sri lanka in this regard.
(f) Import of Raw materials
Import of Raw materials for the above said Mills will include major raw materials will be exempted from the Port
and Airport Development Levy and if any Customs Import Duty for a period of eight (8) years with the approval
of the Board Commencing from six months prior to commencement of commercial operation of the new rolling mill
or first date of imports effected for the new rolling mill whichever falls later.
B
ASIL ROHANA RAJAPAKSA, MP,
Minister of Economic Development.
Colombo,
10th  August, 2011.
08 - 687
SCHEDULE  (Contd.)