

<!-- page 1 -->

1505 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1505
wxl 1"577 _ 2008 fkdjeïn¾ ui 21 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'11'21
No. 1,577 – FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1508
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1511
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th November, 2008, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 14th November, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II, III and  Part IV (A)   of the Gazette No. 1576 of 11.14.2008 were  not published.
Jurors List  has  been  published in part  VI of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1506
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

1507 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
B5 – B 79901

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1508
Posts - Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages Anuradhapura District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages, in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applications should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sfficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Officers, Rural Develop ment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 21st December 2008 .
E. M. G
UNESEKARA,
Registrar General.
Regisgtrar General's Department,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
22nd October, 2008.
POSTS  VACANT
A
NURADHAPURA DISTRICT
Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for Address to which
District Divisio n which applications applications
are called should be sent
Anuradhapura Horowpothana Post of Additional District Secretary/Addi.
Registrar of Muslim Registrar General,
marriages in Ihala District Secretariat,
Agunachchiaya area Anuradhapura
Anuradhapura Thirappane Post of Registrar District Secretary/Addi.
of Muslim marriages Registrar General,
in Thirappane area District Secretariat,
in Hurulu Palatha Anuradhapura
Division
11-282

<!-- page 5 -->

1509 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
MINISTRY    OF   POWER   AND    ENERGY
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan Citizens for the
following vacancies in the Ministry of Power and Energy.
01. Press Officer - 01 Post
02. Video Camereman - 01Post
03. Still Photographer - 01 Post
The applications Prepared as per the below specimen
application, should be sent to reach Secretary, Ministry of Power
Energy, 493/1, T. B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before
02.01.2009. The post applying should be indicated on the top left
hand corner of the envelop.
01. Qualifications for these posts are as follows :-
(a) Age Limit :
Should be between 18-35 years as at the closing date of
applications. (The upper age limit will not be applicable
for those already in the public and provincial public service).
(b) Educational Qualifications :
For Press Officer :
A degree from a recognized university or a Post Graduate
Diploma in the filed of media from a government recognized Institute
(Institutes recognized by the University Act, No.16 of 1978)
For  Video Cameraman and Still Photographer :
Should  have passed six  subjects at G . C. E. (O/L) NGCE
Examination  in not  more  than  two  sittings with four  credits
including for Science and Mathematics. (Should  have  passed  five
subject in one  sitting).
and
A Diploma in Photography from a recognized University or a
Technical College or a government recognized Institute of V ocational
Education or a Certificate obtained from a recognized institute of
Vocational Education upon the completion of one year full time
course or a part time course of which the duration in not less than
two years.
(c) Professional and Other Qualification :
For Press Officer
Experience not less than 03 years in an information and
Propaganda Staff of a Newspaper Institute or government or
corporation or any other recognized institute.
For Video Cameraman and Still Photographer
5 year experience in government or government recognized
Institute (Shoule be confirmed by certificates).
02. Mode of Recruitment
Post of Press Officer
Applicants who score highest marks will be recruited based the
recommendations of a structured interview panel.
Posts of Video Cameraman and Still Photographer
Applicants who score highest marks at a Practical Test will be
recruited based the recommendations of a structured interview panel.
03. Terms of Employment
These posts are permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to the Widows' and Widowers' and Orpahans’ Fund. Should achieve
the language proficiency within 5 years of appointment as per the
provisions of the Public Adinistration Circular No. 7/2007 of
28.05.2007. This appointment is subjected to a probation period
of three years. The efficiency bar examination should be passed
within 03 years of appointment.
04. Salary Category and Salary Scale.
For Press Officer
As per P. A. Circular No. 6/2006 (iv) (MN4 -2006-A)
(Rs.15,215- 10 x 215 - 4 x 240 - 7 x 320 - 15 x 360 - 25965)
(Grades III, II and I will be applicable)
Note : Recruitment will be made to the salary scale of 15,215 -
10 x 215 - 17,365 which is applicable for grade III until the scheme
of Promotion is formulated to promoted  them to Grade II and I
based on the recommendations of the National Salaries and Cadre
Commission.
Posts of Video Cameraman and Still Photographer
As per P. A. Circular No.6./2006 (iv) (MT1 2006-A)
Rs.14,425 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 - Rs. 23,665
(Grades III, II, and I will be applicable)
Note .-  Recruitment will be made to the salary scale of Rs.14,425 -
10 x 145 - Rs. 15,875 which is applicable for Grade III until the
scheme of Promotion is formulated to pormoted them to Grade II
and I based on the recommedation of the National Salaries and
Cadre Commission.
M. M. C. Ferdinando,
Secretary,
Ministry of Power and Energy.
06th November 2008.
Specimen Application
Ministry of Power and Energy
Application for the Post of...................
1. ( a) Name with initials :————.
(b) Names denoted by Initials :————.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1510
2. Address :————.
3. Sex :————.
4. Date of Birth :————.
5. Age as at the Closing date of application :
Years :———.         Months :———. Days :———.
6. National Identity Care No.:————.
7. Civil Status :————.
8. Educational Qualifications :————.
9. Professional and other Qualifications :————.
I Certify that the particulars furnished by me above are true and
correct to the best of my Knowledge.
————.
Applicant's Signature
Date :————.
Recommendation of the Head of Department/Institution
(Only for the applicants in the Public/Provincial Public
Service)
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss....................... who serves in
the post of............................ of  this Institution is recommended
and forwarded. The Particulars furnished by him/her are correct
and he/she can/cannot be released from the service of this
Department/Institution if he/she is selected to this post.
————.
Signature of Head of Department
and Official Frank.
Date :————.
11-436
115) for the post of the D. S's Division
of Kalpitiya in Puttalam District.
03. Gampaha : Application are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the
Judicial Zone of Gampaha.
04. Nuwara-Eliya : Application are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the
Judicial zone of Nuwara-Eliya and
Hatton.
Persons with following qualifications may apply
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized university
or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by
the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or
a holder of the Al-Alim Certificate issued by the Department of
Education or an Attornery-at-law or a holder of other similar
professional qualifications or a retired public servant who has held
office in staff grade.
Persons currently holding a permanent post in the public service
shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicant should be persons of over 40 years of age and of
good character and standing in the community and posssessing
sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim Marriage and
Dovorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which
will be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed. A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of
Rs. 6,000/- and an all inclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month
for the cost of support service (clerical, assessors, typing, postal)
Applications on forms obtainable from this office, should be
sent to reach me on or before 22nd December 2008.
P. W. D. C. J
AY ATHILAKE,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Office of the Judicial Service Commission,
P . O. Box 573,
Hultsdorp,
Colombo 12.
04th  November 2008.
11-450
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Application are called for in terms of Muslim Marriage
and Divorce
Act (Chapter 115) the recruitment for the Post of Quazis
01. Puttalam & Chilaw : Application are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the
Judicial Zone of the Judicial Zone of
Puttalam & Chilaw (except the D. S's
Division of Kalpitiya) in Puttalam
District.
02. Kalpitiya : Application are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter

<!-- page 7 -->

1511 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
DEPARTMENT  OF  PRISON  SRI LANKA
APPLICATION are invited for the following post I class I I "A"
Sub - working Supervisor (Male) of the Sri Lanka Technician Service.
Application are called qualification completed the person's in state
service and provincial state service in accordance to that the following
format all the applications should be completed and sent to the
registered post Commissioner General of Prisons, Department of
Prisons, Baseline Road, Colombo 09 threw the Department of Head.
The enveloped enclosing the application should be marked "II "A"
Post for the Sub Working Supervisor" on the top left corner other
application not be recognized without send to the posted
application.
Working Condition :
(1) The appointment will be subject to the provisions of the Sri
Lanka Technician Service minute Published in the gazette
extraordinary No. : 1436/34 and 06.01.2006 of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Condition of Technician Service of Sri Lanka in accordance to
that amended to the above constitution selected candidate appointed
for the Post of II "A" Working Supervisor :
Experience and Qualifications :
(i) Completed the six year service record in II "B" class in Sri
Lanka Technician Service.
(ii) Passsed in first Department examination.
Method of Recruitment :
Will be call for an interview.
Structure and the annual salary scale  :
1. Class II "A" (Sub Working Supervisor) Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 -
6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x360- Rs. 27,885/=
Note - No complaint  that an application has been lost or delayed
in the post will be considered before the date 16.12.2008 application
should be send the me.
————.
Commissioner General of Prison.
28th October 2008,
Prison Headquarters.
Model Application Form
Department of Prison Sri Lanka Technician Service of Sri Lanka
Application for (Male) Sub Working Supervisor II A
01. Full Name : (with initials) :————.
Name denoted by initials :————.
02. Address :————.
Private :————. Office :————.
03. National Identity Card Number :————.
04. Date of Birth :————.
05. Your age on closing date :
Y ear :———,       Month :———,      Day :———,
06. Qualifications :
(i) Dated in appoint for post and designation name in II A
Technician Service of Sri Lanka
(ii) Passed in first departmental exam date and descriptions.
07. (i) Present post held in you :————.
(ii) W orking place :————.
(iii) Date of Appointment :————.
08. Declaration of Applicant :
I Certify that all the particulars given by me in this application
are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particulars given by me
in this application are found to be false or inaccurate prior to my
selection my application will be rejected and that if such information
is found to be false or in accurate after my selection I will be
discontinued from the service without compensation.
————.
Signature of the applicant.
Certified of the head of the Department
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss.............. is employed
in this department/Ministry/Provincial Council as a.......................
and above particulars are corrective, amended to the above details
his/her work and conduct are satisfactory and that if he/she is
selected for the above post. If he/she can/can't be released.
————.
Signature of the head of
the Department post.
Date :————.
11-336
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1512
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to follow a Pre-Service Professional
Course in Teacher Education - 2009
(Very Important : The Gazette Notification dated 10.10.2008 on above subject was cancelled. Applicants under that Gazette must
re-apply according to this Gazette Notification)
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from those with requisite academic qualifications and Eligibility to follow a Three Year Pre Servic e
Professional Course in Teacher Education in National Colleges of Education.
2.0 Eligibility :
Every applicant should -
2.1 Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 Possess an excellent character and sound physical and mental health ;
2.3 Age :
2.3.1 Should not be more than 25 years of age as 01.01.2009 ;
2.3.2 Clergy who apply for the course of Catholicism/Christianity should not be more than 30 years of age as 01.01.2009;
2.3.3 Buddhist Monks/Buddhist Nuns who apply for the Course of Buddhism should not be more than 27 years of age as
on 01.01.2009 ;
2.4 Should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications :
3.1 Should have passed three subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007  (Two passes for Sri Pada
National College of Education).
(Applicants for Technological Studies Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.14 and applicants for Chirstianity/
Chatholicism course should refer to the Note in paragraph 4.10 ).
3.2 Should have passed  six core subjects  including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language with three Credit passes at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings. (Should have passed at least 5 Core subjects at the first sitting).
3.3 If the Special requirements in the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination mentioned under 3.2 have not been completed in two sittings,
they should have been completed at the third sitting. (Special requirements will be considered only if the applicants have
completed the basic qualifications indicated at 3.1 and 3.2 above. If Special qualifications have not been especially mentioned;
only the qualifications mentioned under 3.1 and 3.2 will be considered.
3.4 English Language proficiency for the English Language Course and English Medium Courses.
3.4.1 Those who apply for English Medium courses except for English Language Course should have obtained a Credit
pass in English/Ordinary pass in English Literature at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination ;

<!-- page 9 -->

1513 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
3.4.2 Applicants for the English Language Course should have obtained Very Good Pass in English Language/Credit Pass
in English Literature. A Credit for English or an Ordinary  Pass for English Literature at G.C.E. (O/L) will be
sufficient if the applicants have passed English Language as a subject in G .C.E. (A/L). However, in case of obtaining
the same mark by two or more applicants, performance at G .C.E. (O/L) in English and English Literature will be
considered (Distinction or V ery Good Pass in English/Distinction/V ery Good Pass or Credit Pass in English
Literature).
3.4.3 Although the Courses in Library Science and Information Studies and Information Communcation Technology,
Western Music : are conducted in English Medium, the applicants are selected from those who have appeared
G.C.E. (A/L) in Sinhala or Tamil Medium.
3.5 All applicants should fulfill their requirements on  or before the closing date of applications.
4.0 Educational Qualifications and Other Special Requirements :
Educational qualifications and other special requirements applicable to each Course in National Colleges of Education are as
follows :
4.1 Course No. 01 - Primary Education (Sinhala)
Primary Education (Tamil)
4.1.1 Three passes including Sinhala/Tamil Language at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 ;
and
4.1.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil
Language and two other subjects (Minimum three credit passes)
4.2 Course No. 02 - Science (Sinhala).
Science (Tamil)
Science (English)
4.2.1 Three passes in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 in the following subjects : Botany,
Zoology, Physics, Chemistry and Biology (Two passes in above subjects for Sri Pada National College of Education);
and
4.2.2 Passed at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Mathematics 32 or Mathematics 42
4.3 Course No. 03 - Mathematics (Sinhala)
Mathematics (Tamil)
Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three passes at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2007 in the following subjects :  Mathematics, Combined
Mathematics or Higher Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry. (Two passes in one of the following subjects including
Mathematics, Combined Mathematics and higher Mathematics for Sri Pada National College of Education) ;
and
4.3.2 Passed at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Science 34
4.4 Course No. 04 - Physical Education (Sinhala)
04 - Physical Education (Tamil)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1514
4.4.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 ;
and
4.4.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Health and Physical
Education and Mathematics ;
and
4.4.3 Achievements /performances of the recognized Track and Field Athletics and Organized Sports. A maximum of 75
marks will be awarded for three various games/events in the following priority order.
PRIORITY ORDER OF SPORTS /EVENTS
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 International Level single —— 1 25
2 International Level single —— 2 24
3 International Level single —— 3 23
4 International Level —— team 1 22
5 International Level —— team 2 21
6 International Level —— team 3 20
7 International Level single team —— 19
  Representation
8 National Level single —— 1 18
9 National Level single —— 2 17
10 National Level single —— 3 16
11 National Level —— team 1 15
12 National Level —— team 2 14
13 National Level —— team 3 13
14 Provincial Level single —— 1 12
15 Provincial Level single —— 2 11
16 Provincial Level single —— 3 10
17 Provincial Level —— team 1 09
18 Provincial Level —— team 2 08
19 Provincial Level —— team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major —— —— —— 06
/Warrant Officer 1
21 Presidents’ Scout/Girl Guide —— —— —— 06
22 Sergeant Major /Warrant —— —— —— 05
Officer 2
23 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 1 06
Divisional Secretariat Level
24 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 2 05
Divisional Secretariat Level
25 District Level/Zonal / single —— 3 04
Divisional Secretariat Level
26 District Level/Zonal / —— team 1 03
Divisional Secretariat Level
27 District Level/Zonal / —— team 2 02
Divisional Secretariat Level
28 District Level/Zonal / —— team 3 01
Divisional Secretariat Level
4.4.4 Following marks will be awarded for passes obtained for the Health and Physical Education at G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
A Pass - 05
B Pass - 03
C Pass - 02

<!-- page 11 -->

1515 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
Note:
(i) Recognized Sports Competitions (International) - Participation at International Competitions representing Sri
Lanka National Teams or School National Sports Teams (except Chess, Carom and Draught) through Ministry
of Education / Ministry of Sports and their registered sports Associations (Participation in International
Competitions on personal basis by school sports teams will not be considered).
(ii) Recognized Sports Competitions - National level competitions organized by the Ministry of Education/
Ministry of Sports/National Youth Services Council.
Provincial level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education /Provincial Ministry of
Sports /National Youth Services Council
District Level Competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education/Provincial Ministry of Sports
/National Youth Services Council
Zonal level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education.
(iii) 1st 2nd and 3rd places in “A” Grade competitions organized by Sports Associations registered  under the
Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Education will only be given priority in order.
(iv) Certificates gained for Sports performance/achievements within the preceding five years before the closing
date of the application will only be valid.
Marks will be awarded to the highest certificate obtained for the same event in the same year out of three
certificates.
4.5 Course No. 05 -  Home Economics and Food Technology (Sinhala)
  Home Economics and Food Technology (Tamil)
4.5.1 Passed  three subjects including Home economics at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2007 ;
 and
4.5.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil Language  Mathematics and a credit pass for
Science
4.6 Course No 06- English
4.6.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2007 including English Language (Not General
English) with credit pass for English Language/Ordinary pass in English Literature and six core subjects including
Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination/London G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
or
4.6.2 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 and three passes including
English at London G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 and credit pass in English Language/Ordinary pass
in English Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) examination/London G. C. E. (O/L) examination and passed six subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics ;
or
4.6.3 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 and passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in
six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics with a very good pass in English Language/
Credit pass in English Literature.
Note :
(i) Priority will be given to those who qualify under 4.6.1 and 4.6.2 they do not need to sit for the proficiency test.
Their qualifications should be proved at the interview
(ii) Applicants who are qualified under 4.6.3 should appear for the Selection Text.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1516
4.7 Course No. 07 - Buddhism
Buddhist Priests/Nuns and the Laity can apply for the Course of Buddhism. All requirements should have been
completed in year 2007 or before. (Laity candidates should have completed all educational qualifications in their
laity name in year 2007 or before)
4.7.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 with three subjects including two out of Buddhism,
Buddhist Civilization, Pali and Sinhala.
4.7.2 Passed Pracheena, Preliminary examination (only for Buddhist Priests/Nuns)
4.7.3 Passed Buddha Dharmacharya Examination
4.7.4 Passed Daham School Final Examination
4.7.5 Passed  G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Buddhism and Mathematics/
passed Primary Pirivena Final Examination in six subjects with Sinhala Language, Mathematics and Tripitaka
Dharma.
Note :
(i) Priority order in selection
(a) Applicants having all certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.7.3, 4. 7. 4 and 4.7. 5
(b) Applicants having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2 and 4.7.5
(c) Applicants having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.3 and 4.7.5
(d) Applicants having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.4 and 4.7.5
(e) Applicants having certificates 4.7.1 and 4.7.5
4.8 Course No. 08 - Hinduism
4.8.1 Three passes in one sitting including one of the  following subjects Hinduism, Hindu Civilization and Sanskrit
in the G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 ;
4.8.2 Candidates having Shavia Siddhantha Pandithar Certificate ;
4.8.3 Candidates having Shavia Pulaver Certificate ;
4.8.4 Candidates having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.8.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Hinduism
Note : Priority order in Selection
(a) Candidates having 4.8.1 and all other certificates
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.4, 4.8.5 and one certificate out of other two
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.5 and one certificate out of other three
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1., 4.8.5
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2007 or earlier.
4.9 Course No. 09- Islam
4.9.1 Three passes including one of the following subjects - Islam, Islamic Civilization and Arabic in the G . C. E.
(A/L) examination held in Year 2007
4.9.2 Passed Al-Alim Examination (Both Part 1 and Part 2)
4.9.3 Having Moulavi Certificate and passed Part 1 in Al-Alim examination,
4.9.4 Having Moulavi Certificate

<!-- page 13 -->

1517 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
4.9.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects with Tamil Language, Mathematics and Islam
Note : Priority order in selection
(a) Candidates having 4.9.1, 4.9.5 and all other certificates indicated above
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.9.1, 4.9.3, 4.9.4. and 4.9.5
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.9.1, 4.9.4 and 4.9.5
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.9.1 and 4.9.5
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2007 or earlier.
4.10 Course No. 10 - Catholicism/Christianity (Sinhala)
                          Catholicism/Christianity (Tamil)
4.10.1 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 and passes in six subjects including
Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
and
Ordinary pass for Christianity in G. C. E. (A/L) examination or credit pass for Catholicism/Christianity in
G. C. E. (O/L) examination
and
The certificate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics to be a teacher of Catholicism and the certificate of National
Christian Council for Christians to be a teacher of Christianity
4.10.2 Selection of Catholicism candidates will be made by giving priority in the order of following qualifications :
4.10.2.1 Four year course certificate on Theology (BTH)
                or
4.10.2.2 Christian Philosophy certificate conducted by the National Seminary ;
or
4.10.2.3 Three year religious education course certificate in Deva Dharma Nikethanaya ;
or
4.10.2.4 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that the candidate has successfully
completed the study of the religious education and training course (Novitiate) to become a member of the
clergy ;
or
4.10.2.5 Passed the Catholic Dharmacharya examination conducted by the National Catechetical Centre Namely
Dharmachary a Hons/Dahamguru 3 ;
or
Dharmacharya Special (Dahamguru 2) or Dharmacharya Ordinary (Dahamguru 1)
or
4.10.2.6 Passed Christianity in G.  C. E. (A/L) examination.
4.10.3 Selection of candidates for Christianity will be made according to the qualifications indicated in the following
order :
4.10.3.1 Should have obtained Dharmavedi Diploma conducted by Lanka Theological College, Pilimathalawa.
4.10.3.2 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge conducted by National Christianity Council.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1518
Note : (i) To select 90% from all admissions, Catholic candidates qualified under 4.10.1 will be selected on the
serial order shown under 4.10.2 When 90% of Catholic candidates have not applied, Christian candidates
will be selected for such vacancies
(ii) 10% of the total number of admissions will be selected from among Christian candidates qualified
under 4.10.1 according to the serial order shown under 4.10.3. If 10% Christian candidates have not
applied, Catholic candidates will be selected for such vacancies
(iii) 40% of the total number of admissions will be selected from Catholic and Christian Clergy. If the
required percentage (40%) of vacancies cannot be filled out of clergy, selection will be made from laity
applicants.
(iv) In case of sufficient applicants of the Clergy who have passed G. C. E. (A/L) in 2007 are not available,
those (clergy) who have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) examination immediately preceding the years 2006,
2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 will be selected considering the closest year to 2007. If 40% of the Clergy
candidates have not applied layman candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
(v) Indicate whether the religion is Catholicism or Christianity in the space provided to mention the
course in the application form.
4.11 Course No. 11 - Library Science and Information Studies (English)
4.11.1 Pas sed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 ;
and
4.11.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics and a
Credit pass for English Language/an Ordinary pass for English Literature.
4.12 Course No. 12 - Special Education (Sinhala)
                           Special Education (Tamil)
4.12.1 Pas sed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 ;
and
4.12.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in 09 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics
4.13 Course No. 13 - Agriculture (Sinhala)
                         Special Education (Tamil)
4.13.1 Pas sed G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2007 with Agriculture, Biology and Chemistry and  G. C. E.
(O/L) in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language at one sitting with credit passes for science and
mathematics
4.13.2 Passed three subjects including Agriculture, Agricultural Technology G . C. E. (A/L) examination in year 2007
with two Arts subjects ;
and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language with Credit passes for Mathematics
and Science.
Note : Priority will be given to the Applicants qualified under 4.13.1
4.14 Course No. 14- Technical Studies (Sinhala)
                        Technical Studies (Tamil)
4.14.1 Design Technology
4.14.1.1 Passed three subjects including one of the following components in Hard Technology at G . C. E. (A/L)
examination in year 2007
(i) Civil Technology
(ii) Mechanical Technology
(iii) Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology

<!-- page 15 -->

1519 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
4.14.1.2 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007
and
4.14.1.3 Passed 6 core subjects at G. C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language, and
one subject out of the followings. Wood work, Masonry/Construction Technology/Metal work/Motor
Mechanism/Mechanical Technology/Radio Mechanism/Electric and Electronic Technology.
4.14.2 Crafts and Arts–
4.14.2.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007
and
4.14.2.2 Passed six core subjects at G . C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language,
and one other subject out of Weaving/Pottery/Craft and Art.
and
4.14.3 Followed and successfully completed (in not less than 10 months) a Technical Course which is relevant to the
subject area and formally issued indicating the subject performance level and conducted by a Government
approved Technical College/National Apprentice Board/Vocational Training Authority/Textile Industries
Department/Small Industries Department.
Note : (i) Priority Order of selection
           Design and Technology–
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.14.1.1 and 4.14.1.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.14.1.2, 4.14.1.3 and 4.14.3
If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) and (b) are not available, the applicants who have passed
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2006 and 2005 will be considered as per (a) and (b) mentioned in this gazette
notification.
Craft and Art–
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.14.2.1, 4.14.2.2 and 4.14.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.14.2.1 and 4.14.2.2
(i) If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) and (b) are not available, the applicants who have
passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2006 and 2005 will be considered as per (a) and (b) mentioned
in this gazette notification.
(ii) In the application, clearly state the course as Design and Technology/Crafts and Art
(iii) All requirements indicated above should have been completed on or before the closing date of the applications.
(iv) Indicate whether the application has been forwarded under (a) or (b) in (i)/ (a) or (b) in (ii) considering the
priority order in the cage provided to mention the ‘Name of the Technological Course’ under No. 14 in the
application.
4.15 Course No. 15 – Art (Sinhala)
                           Art (Tamil)
4.15.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 including Art in one sitting.
and
4.15.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Art.
4.15.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Art/Art and Sculpture at G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2007.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1520
Note.—  If applicants qualified under 4.15.1 are not sufficient, those who passed the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in
Year  2006 in three subjects at one sitting and passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/
Tamil Language, Mathematics and with a credit pass for Art will be considered.
4.16 Course No. 16 – Dance  (Oriental)
4.16.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 including Dance in one sitting.
and
4.16.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Mathematics and Dance.
4.16.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Dance in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year
2007.
4.17 Course No. 17 – Dance  (Bharatha)
4.17.1 Passed three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 including Bharatha Natyam. (Two subjects
including Bharatha Natyam for Sri Pada National College of Education).
4.17.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Bharatha
Natyam.
4.17.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Bharatha Natyam in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2007.
Note : If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National College
of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who have passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
held in Year 2007 with two subjects in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Bharatha Natyam in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination.
4.18 Course No. 18 – Music  (Oriental)
4.18.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 including Music in one sitting.
and
4.18.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Mathematics and Music.
4.18.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Music in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year
2007.
4.19 Course No. 19 – Music  (Carnatic)
4.19.1 Passed any three subjects including Carnatic Music at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 (Two passes
including Carnatic music for Sri Pada National College of Education)
and
4.19.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Carnatic
Music.
4.19.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Carnatic Music in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2007.
Note : (I) If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National
College of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who have passed G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination held in Year 2007 with two subject in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Carnatic music at
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.

<!-- page 17 -->

1521 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
4.20 Course No. 20 – Western Music  (English)
4.20.1 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 including Western Music in one sitting ;
and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music and, with a Credit pass for English Language or an ordinary pass for English Literature ; or
4.20.2 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007. ; and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music with a Credit pass in English language or an ordinary pass in English Literature. ; and
Passed Grade five in Western Music (Theory and Practical) from a recognized institute approved by the Colleges of
Education Board. ; or
Passed Western Music at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination as an additional subject.
Note : (i) Applicants should reach a satisfactory level of performance at the practical test conducted for Western Music
Course.
(ii) In selection, priority will be given to applicants qualifying under 4.20.1.
4.21 Course No. 21 – Drama and Theatre (Sinhala)
                  Drama and Theatre (Tamil)
4.21.1 Passed three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 including Drama and Theatre in one sitting ;
and
4.21.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Mathematics and Drama and
Theatre.
4.21.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Drama and Theatre at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2007.
4.22 Course No. 22 – Information Communication Technology (English)
4.22.1 Passed in any three subjects at the G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 (Two subjects for Sri Pada National
College of Education) ; and
4.22.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a Credit pass for
English language/an ordinary pass for English Literature and credit pass for Mathematics.
Note :
(i) Applicants who apply for this Course should appear for a Selection test.
(ii) This test measures the mathematical ability of the candidate.
(iii) Applicants shall sit for the Selection Text in his/her medium of study.
(iv) Indicate the preferred medium under 1.0 para of the application.
4.23 Course No. 23 – Social Science  (Sinhala)
                      Social Science  (Tamil)
4.23.1 Passed three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 including one subject out of History, Political
Science and Geography. ; and
4.23.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, and Mathematics and with
a credit pass for Social Science and History.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1522
4.24 Course No. 24 – First Language  (Tamil)
4.24.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 in three subjects including a Credit pass for Tamil subject.  ; and
4.24.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and a credit pass in Tamil language.
4.25 Course No. 25 – Second National Language  (Sinhala)
4.25.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2007 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Sinhala.  ; and
4.25.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala language.
Note.– The priority will be given to those who have followed Tamil as a Second National Language / Optional Second
National Language at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination  or Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Tamil issued
by the Official Language Department.
4.26 Course No. 26 - Second National Language (Tamil)
4.26.1 Passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Tamil ;
and
4.26.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Tamil Language.
Note :   The priority will be given to those who have followed Sinhala as a Second National Language / Optional
Second National Language at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination  or Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in
Sinhala issued by the Official Language Department.
4.27 Course No. 27 – French
4.27.1 Passed  G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2007 in three subjects including French ;
and
4.27.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination  in six core subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language and with
a Credit Pass in English Language /an Ordinary Pass in English Literature.
Note: Courses for Bharatha, Carnatic Music will be conducted only in Tamil Medium, while courses for Western Music,
Library Science and information studies and  Information Communication Technology will be conducted only in
English Medium.
5.0 Procedure for Selection of trainees for Year 2009
5.1 Basis of selection :
5.1.1 The number of trainees to be admitted will be decided based on the teacher carder requirements in the school system
in the year 2012.
5.1.2 The basis of selection  will be Z Score, obtained at G. C. E. A/L Examination in 2007 Student will be selected for
English/Information Communication Technology and Physical Education courses on the achievements and
performances of Proficiency Selection Tests and  sports. The Z Score will be deciding factor when several candidates
score same marks at proficiency and performance tests. Selections for all the courses will be 30% on National Level
and 70% on Difficult District Level except for Sri Pada National College of Education.
5.1.3 Applicants who prefer to follow English Medium courses Western Music and Information Communication Technology
should qualify with a Credit Pass in the English Language or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature. Applicants for
English Language Course should have obtained a very good pass in English Language or Credit Pass in English
Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination including six core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics.
5.1.4 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level at the Practical Test conducted for Physical Education and Western
Music.
5.2 Difficult District Basis :
5.2.1 Admission for difficult districts will be made from applicants belonging to the 17 Districts deemed as difficult
based on the distribution of educational facilities. (Matale, Mullativu, Anuradhapura, Nuwara Eliya, Vavuniya,

<!-- page 19 -->

1523 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
Polonnaruwa, Hambantota, Trincomalee, Badulla, Jaffna, Baticaloa, Moneragala, Kilinochchi, Ampara, Ratnapura,
Mannar, Puttalam).
Number to be admitted from each District will be decided for each course proportional to the number of students
appeared for G . C. E. (A/L) - 2007 Examination in all media in respective Districts.
5.2.2 If the expected number from relevant difficult district is not available, vacancies will be filled from other difficult
districts.
5.2.3 Determination of Districts :
5.2.3.1 The D istrict of any school applicant will be the district of the location of the School/Schools in which he/
she had studied during the entire or major part of the Five years (more than 2 1/2 years) period ending on
the last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G. C. E. (A/L)
examination at the first sitting.
5.2.3.2 If any private applicant had left the school after having previously sat the G. C. E. (A/L) examination as a
school applicant, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school from which he/she had first
sat the above examination.
5.2.3.3 If any private applicant has left the school without having previously sat for the G. C. E. (A/L) examination
as a school candidate, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which
he/she had studied during the entire or the major part of the five years (more than 2 1/2) years period ending
on the last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G. C. E. (A/L)
examination at the first sitting.
5.2.3.4 If any private applicant has not studied in a school, he/she should confirm his/her District of residence with
the V oter’s List of Election Commissioners Office or Grama Niladhari and Divisional Secretary’s affidavit.
5.3 Selection for Sri Pada National College of Education :
5.3.1 75% of the vacancies will be filled from applicants of the Indian Tamil Origin and 25% from Sinhalese applicants.
5.3.1.1 On the required number of vacancies prevailing at state-schools in platation Districts, 35% of the Candidates
will be appointed to the Moneragala, Badulla and Ratnapura Districts.
5.3.2 75% will be selected to Tamil Medium Courses while 25% will be selected to Sinhala Medium Courses.
5.3.3 Mathematics and Science Courses will be conducted in the Sinhala Medium. Mathematics, Science, Music (Carnatic)
and Dance (Bharatha) Courses will be conducted in the Tamil Medium. Information Communication Technology
Course will be conducted in the English Medium. The above courses will only be conducted at Sri Pada National
College of Eudcation.
5.3.4 Applications for admission to Sri Pada National College of Education will be entertained only from children of the
residents in Nuwara Eliya, Kandy, Matale, Badulla, Moneragala, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara, Galle and
Kurunegala Plantation Districts.
5.3.5 In the selection, priority will be given to the children of the workers who are residing in the eleven plantation sector
districts indicated above.  At the  interview the children of the  employees in the State and Private Sector Estate
Companies should submit a letter from the Estate Superintendent relating to service (with employee’s period of
service), a certificate from the Estate Superintendent to the effect that he is permanently serving for the past period
of 05 years or more, candidate’s letter agreeing to serve a period of ten years continuously in the schools in the
plantation sector after the training. And letters to prove that deductions are being done for the Employees Provident
Fund including Registration Numbers. Paragraph 5.2.2 will be applied for the applicants of Sri Pada National College
of Education when deciding district of applicants.
5.3.6 If a sufficient number of Candidates having above qualifications are not available, Candidate who served in estates
earlier and who are presently residing outside estates will be considered although they are not working in estate at
present.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1524
5.3.7 If it is not possible to select a sufficient number of candidates under 5.3.7 the balance number of vacancies will be
filled by interviews conducted for selecting for the other Sinhala Medium Courses.
5.3.8 In selection, at least one applicant will be considered for each relevant district.
Note.– In the case of an applicant having an Indian Tamil Origin who had studied in Sinhala Medium will be
considered for the percentage entitled to Indian Tamil Origin. Similarly, a Sinhalese applicant who had studied in
Tamil Medium will be considered for the Sinhala Medium percentage.
6.0 Other Matters related to Selection :
6.1 Selected applicants should be prepared to submit acceptable evidence and originals of certificates to confirm their eligibility
on the date of conducting the interview. A number of applicants more than the number of vacancies will be called for the
interview.
6.2 Applicants who fail to submit the originals of all certificates will not be considered.
6.3 When a problematic situation is observed relating to the mental and physical fitness required by an applicant for reaching the
expected level in the Course and the Interview Board is not satisfied of this position he/she should be subjected to a special
interview and after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board the decision taken by the Board should
be implemented.
6.4 If the selected applicant fails to get registered in the relevant College of Education within 03 days from the due date he/s he
will be deprived of the opportunity for the admission. The vacancies created thereby, will be filled according to the merit
order. Appeals from the applicants who fails to register within 03 days from the due date will strictly not be considered.
6.5 Selected applicants are required to appear for a Medical Examination before their admission to a College of Education to
ascertain whether they are physically and mentally fit for service in any part of the Island.
6.6 After the admission to any Course/National College of Education permission will not be granted to change such Course/
College of Education. If a sufficient number of applicants are not available for a particular Course the applicants will be
transferred to the nearest College of Education where such Courses are conducted.
6.7 In selecting applicants for a Course, if the number of applicants who have obtained equivalent Z Score at the G. C. E. (A/L)
is in excess of the number of vacancies available, the results obtained by the applicants at  the G . C. E. (O/L) at the first
sitting will be considered. Marks will be awarded as 03 marks for a Distinction pass, 02 marks for a Credit pass and 01 marks
for an Ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the total number of marks obtained. The
award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
7.0 Persons Who are not Eligible to apply or to get admitted :
7.1 Those who have already obtained teaching appointments in Government or in Private Schools.
7.2 Those who have been selected for an appointment in a Government School.
7.3 Those who are following or who have followed a Course in a College of Education.
7.4 Those who are following or have followed a Degree Course in a University or University Institute or any other Higher
Education Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is the entry requirement. (Student who were/are already registered and withdrawn
the registration will not be eligible to apply.) And those who have been discontinued from a College of Education on
disciplinary ground.
8.0 Conditions applicable for Training :
8.1 Duration of a Training Course is three years. This period consists of two years residential institutional training in the
National College of Education and one year internship training while being attached to a school. Attendance of a student
teacher should be not less than 90% to enable him/her to sit for the External Final Examination conducted by the Department
of Examinations at the end of the second year.

<!-- page 21 -->

1525 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
8.2 Every trainee should pass the Internal Continuous Tests held in the first and second year. Internal Test conducted at the en d
of the second year and the external final examination conducted by the Department of Examinations. Likewise, those who
follow the English Medium Courses and those who follow all other Courses should get a pass in the English subject at the
above examinations. Applications should be forwarded only by those who agree to the above conditions.
8.3 During the period of two years residential training a trainee will be provided with meals and lodging facilities to the value of
Rs. 2,000 per month for ten months in a year. During the Internship Year a monthly allowance of Rs. 2,500 will be paid for
ten months. Other expenses for personal requirements should borne by the trainee.
8.4 During the period of training a trainee will not be allowed to follow an Academic Course as an internal student in a
University, University Institution or other Higher Education Institute where G. C. E. (A/L) is treated as the entry requirement.
If it is proved that a trainee had followed such a Course all expenses incurred for him/her will be surcharged and the trainee
will be removed from the Course.
8.5 If the trainees get married during the period of training their studentship will be cancelled.
8.6 If a trainee fails to exhibit the progress expected in his general conduct, enthusiasm and in his studies during the period of
training he will be removed from training. Likewise, those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the assessment during the
first year of academic training or found to be following any other Course in an Institute as indicated at 8.4 they will be
removed from the Course. Regarding these matters the decision made by the Colleges of Education Board shall be the final
decision.
8.7 If any complaints are received relating to the physical and mental fitness of the trainee either by the President of the College
during the period of training or by the Principal of the school during the Internship period the trainee will be referred to a
Special Interview Board. A final decision will be taken after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board.
8.8 Trainees should enter into an Agreement with the Ministry of Education with an undertaking to pay back the cost incurred
by the Ministry in providing training if they would leave the training before the completion of the specified period of three
years training course.
8.9 National Diploma in Teaching will be awarded to the trainees who will successfully complete the Training Course. Course
Work and Personality Development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be continuously assessed during
the period of training and this assessment will form a component of the final assessment in awarding the Diploma.
8.10 Applicants successfully completing this Course will be considered for grant of appointments as teachers based on the
availability of vacancies on Education Zonal Level in difficult districts.
8.10.1 In future priority will be given to those who complete this Training Course in awarding teaching appointments for
Government Schools. Therefore, the candidates who are invited for the interviews for selecting to the above Course
should appear for the interview only if would agree to the above conditions.
8.10.2 Priority will be given to those who have followed this training courses in appointing teachers to Government
Schools. Therefore, candidates should appear for the interviews if only they can adhere to the conditions mentioned
above. Those who complete the Library Science and Information Studies Course will be eligible for the appointments
as Teacher Librarians in Government Schools. (They are not Information Communication Technology Teachers).
8.10.3 Applicants who receive their training under the above conditions should enter into an Agreement with the Secretary
of the Ministry of Education that they will serve under the Ministry of Education for a minimum period of five (5)
years from the date of appointment in the Difficult District/Education Zone they have been appointed. The
Education Zone for which the appointment has been given will not be changed for any reason whatsoever.
8.11 Applicants who get registered in a National College of Education should sign a Bond for Rs. 500,000 for the cost to be
incurred for providing training and for supply of infra structure facilities. A student who leave the Course half way or who
fail to serve for five years under the Government will be subjected to a condition for paying the total amount in the Bond to
the Government.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1526
8.12 All educational and other qualifications should have been completed on or before the last date of calling for applications.
9.0 Application :
9.1 An applicant can apply for a maximum of 03 courses.
9.2 An applicant can enclose only one application and two of its certified copies in the same envelope. If any applicant has
submitted applications other than the above mentioned application and the two certified copies all the applications will be
rejected.
9.3 Application should be prepared according to the Specimen Form and instructions given below.
9.4 Applications should be sent under registered post and addressed to Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education), Colleges of
Education Branch, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla to be received on or before 15.12.2008.
Specimen of the envelope in which the application is enclosed should be as follows :
‘Application for Admission to National Colleges of Education 2009
Course Number indicated as first preference .......... Medium ...............’.
Apply to the Sri Pada National College of Education Yes/No.
Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education),
Colleges of Education Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(It is stressed that applications should not be sent to Department of Examinations).
9.5 The postal receipt of registration issued in forwarding the application and a photo copy of the application should be sent
in all instances of making inquiries or submitting appeals. Hence, these documents should be kept with the candidate.
9.6 Applications which do not clearly indicate the Index Number, Year and Course Number as well as the incomplete and
informal applications will be rejected.
9.7 Applications will not be acknowledged.
9.8 No other document should be attached to the application.
9.9 If any certificate submitted by the candidate is revealed later to be a forged or fraudulent certificate the candidate will be
dismissed from service and he will be ineligible for any post in Public Service.
10.0 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the above information in this Gazette Notification the decision of the Colleges of
Education Board will be the final decision.
11.0 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil or English Texts of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala Text shall
prevail.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
11th November, 2008.

<!-- page 23 -->

1527 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
INSTRUCTIONS    FOR    THE    PREPARATION    OF    APPLICATION    FORM
1.0 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. Apply only three courses to which you are eligible. Submit only one application form
with two of its photocopies enclosed in one envelope. (School applicants should get the photo copies certified by the Principal
while the private applicants should get them certified by a Justice of the Peace).
2.0 Application should be prepared in a A4 size white paper (21 x 29.7c.m.) in conformity with the specimen form. Paragraphs 1.0  to
09.4 should be included in the first page. In places where information has to be given in a cage, mark “x” in the relevant cage.
3.0 Please note that the Computer Data relating to each Course used for calling applicants for the interview are prepared based on the
information given from 1.0 to 09.4 in the first page. Specially the Course Number, Index Number of G. C. E. (A/L) and Z Score
should be confirmed as accurate. Please note that the application is liable to be rejected owing to overlapped writing and ille gible
and erroneous writing.
4.0 The information given in paragraph 12.0 for Physical Education Course, paragraph 13.0 for Buddhism Course, paragraph 14.0 fo r
Catholicism /Christianity Course, paragraph 15.0 for Hinduism/Islam Course, paragraph 16.04 for Technological Studies and
paragraph 17.0 for Western Music Course should be considered carefully in filling the application. The information specified wi ll
not be changed under any circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the districts are indicated below  :
Colombo 01 Hamb antota 09 Amparai 17
Gampaha 02 Jaffna 10 Puttalam 18
Kalutara 03 Kilinochchi 11 Kurunegala 19
Matale 04 Mannar 12 Anuradhapura 20
Kandy 05 Mullativu 13 Polonnaruwa 21
Nuwara Eliya 06 Vavuniya 14 Badulla 22
Galle 07 Trincomalee 15 Moneragala 23
Matara 08 Baticaloa 16 Kegalle 24
Ratnapura 25
6.0 Symbol for each Medium : Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION TO NATIONAL COLLEGES OF EDUCATION - 2009
Only for Office use    
(An applicant should submit only one application and two certified photo copies of the application enclosed in one envelope. Applications
which are not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected. Details up to paragraph 09 in the application sho uld be
included in the first page. Computer data required for the selection interview will be prepared out of the information given from 1.0 - 9.4).
1.0
Preference Course Number Medium - S/T/E Course Number (22) and the
medium (S/T)
for the examination
1
2
3

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1528
2.0 2.1 Name with initials in English (In Block letters) Example : PERERA R. C.
Mr./Miss. :–––––––––––.
2.2 Name in full in English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
3.0 Permanent residential address :
  In English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
4.0 According to para 5.2.3 in Gazette Notification :
District :–––––––––––. District No.
5.0 5.1 Date of Birth :
Y ear Month  Date
5.2 National Identity Card No.
6.0 Sex : Male 1 Female   2
7.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhalese Sri Lankan Tamil Indian Tamil Muslim Others
12 3 4 5
8.0 Results of G . C. E. (A/L) in Year 2007 :
8.1 Y ear
8.2 Index No.
8.3 Z score                    .
8.4 Details of results subject wise
Subject Subject No. Grade
1. ........................ ........................ ........................
2. ........................ ........................ ........................
3. ........................ ........................ ........................
9.0 9.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for English and English medium Courses at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for
English Language and English Literature
Year :
Index No.
9.2 Are you applying to Sri Pada National Collge of Education ?
9.3 If yes indicate whether you are a state worker’s child by marking ( ‘x’ in the relevant cage) :
Yes 1 N o 2
9.4 Total marks included for Section 12.0 in the application by applicants for Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil
10.0 If you have sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination prior to year 2007, please indicate details in full in each sitting even if you
appeared for only one subject :
10.1 No. of sitting for the examination 1 2
10.2 Y ear ........... ..............
10.3 Index No. ........... ..............
10.4 Examination Center No. ........... ..............

<!-- page 25 -->

1529 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
10.5 Z Score ........... ..............
10.6 Subjects passed and grades ........... ..............
Subject Grade Subject Grade
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
11.0 Details of G. C. E. (O/L) passed :
11.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2 3
11.2 Y ear .............. ............. ..............
11.3 Index No. .............. ............. ..............
11.4 Examination Centre No. .............. ............. ..............
11.5 Subjects and Grades passed .............. ............. ..............
1st sitting 2nd sitting 3rd sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
2. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
3. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
4. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
5. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
6. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
7. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
8. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
12.0 Particulars of sports competency according to the Clause 4.4.3 in Para 4.4 of the Gazette Notification
(Only those who apply for Physical Education Course should complete). It is necessary to give your attention to all the
Clauses in 4.4.3 when you complete this part. Particulars of only highest three sports/competency will be sufficient.
If you have passed Health and Physical Education in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, state the relevant mark according to the
grade as in 4.4.4, must be mentioned below.
The total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 09.3 in the first page of this application.
Certificate of sports competency :
No. Year Ministry/Institute/ Represented for Event/Sports Place Relevant
Clubs issued Competitions-Inter-National/ obtained Marks for
National/Provincial/District/ 4.4.3
Zonal
1
2
3
If you sat for Health and Physical Education in G. C. E. (O/L), Grade          Marks
Total Marks

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1530
13.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, Bauddha Dharmacharya, Pirivena Final examination according to 4.7 of the Gazette
Notification :
Examination Pracheena Bauddha Pirivena Final Daham Pasal
Preliminary Dharmacharya Final
13.1 Y ear
13.2 Index No.
13.3 Center No.
13.4 Subject and 1 1 1
Grade 2 2 2
33 3
44 4
55
66
7
8
9
10
11
14.0 The applicant of Catholicism/Christianity should fill the relevant part according to para. 4.10 of the Gazette Notification.
Name of  the Course/Certificate
From  To Grade
14.1 Degree in Theology (BTH).
14.2 Philosophy Certificate (BPH) conducted by the National and Seminary.
14.3 Dharmachariya Certificate conducted by the National Catechetical center.
14.4 Three year religious education course in Deva Dharma Niketanaya.
14.5 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that
the candidate has successfully completed the study of  the religious
education and training course (Novitiate) or become a member of the clergy
14.6 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Theological
College Pilimatalawa.
 14.7 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge
conducted by National Christian Council.
14.8 Certificate issued by relevant Bishop be a religious Teacher of Catholicism
or Christianity.
14.9 Obtained a pass in G. C. E. (A/L) Christianity subjects.
15.0 The applicants of Hinduism (4.8) Islam. (4.9) should fill the necessary particulars according to sections 4.8 and 4.9 of t he Gazette
Notification.
Name of the Course Duration V alid Date of the Certificate
Duration

<!-- page 27 -->

1531 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
16.0 The applicants who have successfully completed a Technology Studies in a recognize Government Institute and hope to follow the
Technical Skills Course Para. 4.14.3 should fill in the following table :
Name of the Number and Date Institute that Duration Whether successfully
Technical Registration in conducted the completed the course
Course Government Course
17.0 Applicants for the Western Music according in terms of para. 4.20.1 and 4.20.2 in the Gazette notification should include relevant
particulars :
Y ear Institute issuing Certificate Proficiency/class passed
18.0 Declaration of the applicant :
(i) I have forwarded only one application and two photo copies of it. I am aware that all my applications will be rejected if I
send more than one application.
(ii) I certify that the particulars given by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars given by me in this application
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before selection or to be discontinued if detect ed
after selection.
(iii) I declare that I have not applied for University admission and that I am not registered for following a course in a University/
University Institute/affiliated University College/any other Education Institute.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
19.0 Declaration by the Head of School/Pirivena in respect of School/Pirivena applicants :
I certify that this applicant sat G . C. E. (O/L) examination and G . C. E. (A/L) examination/Pracheena Preliminary Final examination
as a student of this School/Pirivena and that the particular given above by the applicant are correct according to my knowledge and
that the Aggregate marks/Z-Score ...................... (writing words) obtain by the applicant at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examinati on in the
year ...................... is according to the official sheets issued by the Commissioner-General of Examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the principal/Head of the Pirivena.
Name of Principal of School/Head of Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Name and address of School/Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'11'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.11.2008
1532
20.0 Declaration in respect of private applicants :
I certify that the aggregate marks/Z-Score obtained by me in the G . C. E. (A/L) examination in the year ............ is ............. (write
in words) according to the Official result sheet issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations, is ....................... .
–––––––––––,
Applicant’s signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Signed before me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Justice of the Peace.
Name :–––––––––––,
Official Frank :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–519
PRINTED AT THE DEPATMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA