

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
VICTOR ANTONY EDUCATIONAL, SOCIAL,
ECONOMIC SERVICES AND CHARITY
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 21 OF 2014
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 17th June, 2014]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 15.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2014

<!-- page 2 -->

1Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
Short title
[Certified on 17th June, 2014]
L.D.—O. (Inc.) 31/2012.
A
N ACT TO INCORPORATE THE VICTOR ANTONY EDUCATIONAL,
SOCIAL, ECONOMIC SERVICES AND CHARITY FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the "Victor
Antony Educational, Social, Economic Services and Charity
Foundation" has heretofore been formed for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Foundation, according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed, and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be expedient public advantage to
grant the said application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Victor Antony
Educational, Social, Economic Services and Charity
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of  2014.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic Services
and Charity Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
"Foundation") and shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession, under the name and
style of the "Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation" (hereinafter referred to as
the "Corporation") and by that name may sue and be sued,
with full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation of
the Victor
Antony
Educational,
Social,
Economic
Services and
Charity
Foundation.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide medical aid and food to the poor, the
destitute and the sick;
(b) to support and encourage senior citizens movements
in order to enhance the services provided by them;
(c) to assist the development of religious places of all
religions;
(d) to establish and maintain pre-school for the
development of early childhood of needy children;
(e) to assist the relevant authorities with the consent of
such authorities;
(i) in designing and implementing social
mobilization programmes and educational
and training programmes for the
development of the children and women;
(ii) to conduct self-employment oriented
vocational training programmes on different
subjects including engineering, technology,
carpentry, driving and computer technology
for the benefit of the youth from the families
of low income level; and
(iii) to organize and conduct extra classes,
seminars, workshops, lectures, exhibitions
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
and educational tours with the view of
promoting education of needy school
children;
(f) to make awareness among the employees of small
and medium scale industries to organize and work
towards their future advancement;
(g) to assist needy students by way of offering
scholarships;
(h) to grant scholarships to any employee of any
institution assisting the furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation;
(i) to promote understanding, co-operation and
friendship with organizations and institutions
having objects similar to the objects of the
Corporation; and
(j) to identify children of school going age who do
not go to school for various reasons and to assist in
directing them towards schools and to support their
education through providing social and economic
assistance.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the Board shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based on race, religion, caste, sex, political opinion, place
of birth or any of such grounds.
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Minister or Department of the
Government or of any Provincial Council.
Corporation to
ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department of
the central
Government or
Province.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the
management and administration of the affairs of the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.
(2) (a) The Board of Directors of the foundation that holds
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of
the Corporation until the first Board is appointed or elected
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3) ( a) Every office bearer of the Board including
the patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power:—
(a) to purchase, acquire rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
Powers of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
required for the pruposes of the Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;
(c) make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate maintain and close accounts in
any bank;
(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the Corporation, in such manner
as the Board may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful turst or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of the
Corproation;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;
(g)  to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a view to promoting the objectives of the
Corporation;

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the
Corporation;
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes of the Corporation; and
(j) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation any by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:–
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board or any sub-
committee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be a
member of the Board and the Corporation;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) generally the management of the affairs of the
Corpration and the accomplishment of its’ objects
and dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette.
(4)  The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which name, address and other essential details of the
members shall be inscribed.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest,
donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and
on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one
or more banks approved by the Board to the credit of
the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under the Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
Register of
members.
Fund of the
Corporation
Accounts and
Auditing.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually  by the Auditor General or a qualified auditor
appointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of this section "qualified auditor"
means–
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the council of such Institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts to the
Secretary of the Ministry of  the Minister assigned the subject
of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social
Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary Social
Services Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,
No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and
local moneys received by the Corporation during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediatly preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
Annual Report.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
movable or immovable, which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testementary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,
the same.
14. The moneys and property of the Corporaton however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall  be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.
15. (1) The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Board who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rules
thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or property
among its members.
Application of
moneys and
property.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of
the Corporation immediately before the dissolution at
a general meeting by the majority of votes of the
members present.
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Victor Antony Educational, Social, Economic
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 21 of 2014
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .