

<!-- page 1 -->

Price : Rs. 22.00       Postage : Rs. 6.75
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  01
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
INLAND  REVENUE  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  10  OF  2002
[Certified on 21st June, 2002]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 21, 2002

<!-- page 2 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
1
[Certified on 21st June, 2002]
L.D.—O.18/2002.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  INLAND  REVENUE  ACT , NO  . 38 OF  2000
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue
(Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 2002.
2. Section 3 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000
(hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment”) is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (h) of that section, and
the substitution, therefor of the following paragraph :—
“(h) capital gains arising on or before March 31,
2002”.
3. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “arising from–”, of the words and figures
“arising on or before March 31, 2002 from–”.
4. Section 8 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act No. 8 of 2001 is hereby further amended in paragraph
(a) of that section as follows :—
(1) in subparagraph (lxxiv) of that paragraph by the
substitution for the words “Investment Bank.”, of
the words “Investment Bank :”.
(2) by the addition at the end of that paragraph of the
following :—
“Provided however that except in the case of a body of
persons referred to in subparagraphs (ix), (xi), (xv), (xvii),
(xx), (xxi), (xxxix), (li), (liv), (lxiv), (lxv), (lxvi), (lxxii),
(lxxiii) and (lxxiv), the exemption from income tax, of the
2—H 015364—11,200 (05/2002)
Amendment of
section 3 of Act,
No. 38 of 2000.
Short title.
Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
2
profits and income of any other body of persons referred to
in this paragraph shall not extend to any such profits and
income of that body of persons as consists of dividends or
interest,  in respect of which tax has been deducted under
subsection (1A) of section 61 or section 122A respectively.”.
5. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in paragraph (a) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “payable to an individual”, of the words
“payable prior to April 1, 2002 to an individual” ;
(2) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (e) of
that section of the following paragraphs :—
“(ee) the interest accruing to any person on moneys
invested in Reconstruction Bonds issued by
the Government of Sri Lanka denominated
in United States Dollars ; ”.
(eee) the interest accruing to any person on moneys
invested in Sri Lanka Development Bonds
denominated in United States Dollars issued
by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka on or after
April 1, 2001;”
(3) in paragraph (f) of that section by the substitution
for the words “Tax Reserve Certificate ; ”, of the
words “Tax Reserve Certificate surrendered prior to
April 1, 2002 ; ” ;
(4) in paragraph (h) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “accruing to any financial institution”
of the words “accruing prior to April 1, 2002 to any
financial institution”.
6. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (f) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words and figures “18, 19, 20 or 21 of this Act”, of the
words and figures “18, 18
A , 19, 20, 20A , 21, 21A , or 21B  of
this Act,”.
Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 11 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
3
Amendment of
section 14 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 18 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 18
A  of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 19 of the
principal
enactment.
7. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—
(1) in paragraph (c) of that subsection by the substitution
for the words “for the three years of assessment.”,
of the words “ for the three years of assessment ; ” ;
(2) by the addition immediately after paragraph (c) of
that subsection of the following paragraph :—
“(d) the aggregate amount of the capital gains of
any person for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2002 arising
from any transaction stipulated in section 7.”.
8. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “Order published in the Gazette” of the words
“Order published in the Gazette, prior to April 1, 2002”.
9. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words and figures
“commences business on or after April 1, 2000,” of the words
and figures “commences business on or after April 1, 2000
but prior to April 1, 2002”.
10. Section 18
A  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures “which commences business on or
after April 1, 2001,” of the words and figures “which
commences business on or after April 1, 2001 but prior to
April 1, 2003”.
11. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures “which commences business on or
after April 1, 2000,” of the words and figures “which
commences business on or after April 1, 2000 but prior to
April 1, 2002”.

<!-- page 5 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
4
12. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures “which commences business on or
after April 1, 2000”, of the words and figures “which
commences business on or after April 1, 2000 but prior to
April 1, 2002”.
13. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 21 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 21
A  and 21B  of that enactment :—
21A . (1) The profits and income within the
meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (other
than any profits and income from the sale of
capital assets) of any company from any
specified undertaking referred to in subsection
(2) and carried on by such company on or after
April 1, 2002 shall be exempt from income tax
for a period of three years reckoned from the
commencement of the year of assessment in
which the undertaking commences to carry on
commercial operations.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)
“specified undertaking” in relation to a company
means an undertaking carried on by such
company and which is engaged in—
(a) agriculture, agroprocessing, industrial and
machine tool manufacturing, information
technology and allied services, electronics
or the export of non-traditional products ;
(b) any other designated project or in a project
in which the investment is in excess of
rupees five hundred million, and which
conforms to the prescribed guidelines.
“
Exemption
from income
tax of certain
agricultural
and industrial
projects.
Amendment of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
sections 21
A  and
21B  in the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
5
For the purpose of this subsection—
(i) “agriculture” means the cultivation of land
with plants of any description and the
rearing of fish ;
(ii) “export of non-traditional products”
means the export of any goods, other than
goods referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of
paragraph (b) of section 52 of this Act.
21
B . (1) The profits and income within the
meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (other
than any profits and income from the sale of
capital assets) of any company from any
specified undertaking referred to in subsection
(2) shall be exempt from income tax for a period
not less than five years but not more than ten
years as may be determined by the Minister by
Order published in the Gazette, if the amount
of the investment made by such company in
such undertaking is not less than one thousand
two hundred and fifty million rupees. Such
period shall be reckoned from the
commencement of the year of assessment in
which the undertaking commences to carry on
commercial operations.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)
“specified undertaking” in relation to company
means an undertaking carried on by such
company on or after April 1, 2002 and which is
engaged in any such activity relating to
infrastructure development as may be
determined by the Minister by Order published
in the Gazette, having regard to the interests of
the national economy.”.
Exemption
from income
tax of certain
undertakings
for
infrastructure
development.

<!-- page 7 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
6
14. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 22 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 22A  of that enactment :—
22A . Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act, the profits and income within the
meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 of any
person  who makes a declaration under section
2 of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 7 of 2002 shall not be exempted from
income tax for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2003.”.
15. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—
(1) in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (b) of that
subsection by the substitution,   for  the  words “or
subparagraph  (iii)”,  of  the  words “or sub-paragraph
(iii) or (vi)”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after sub -paragraph
(v) of paragraph (b) of that subsection of the
following sub-paragraph :—
“(vi) any computer hardware acquired by such
person on or after April 1, 2002 and arising
out of its use in any trade, business, profession
or vocation carried on or exercised by him at
the rate of one hundred per centum on its cost
of acquisition;”;
(3) in paragraph (c) of that subsection by the substitution
for all the words from “a sum equal to one tenth” to
“business carried on by him” of the following :—
“(c) A sum equal to —
(i) one-tenth of any payment made for any
year of assessment commencing prior to
April 1, 2002;
Insertion of new
section 22A  in the
principal
enactment.
“The profits
and income of
a person
making a
declaration
under section
2 of the
Inland
Revenue
(Special
Provisions)
Act, No. 7 of
2002 shall not
be exempted
from income
tax.Amendment of
section 23 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
7
(ii) a sum equal to one-fourth of any payment
made in any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2002,
by such person as consideration for obtaining a
licence, in his favour, of any manufacturing process
used by such person in any trade or business carried
on by such person;”;
(4) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (c) of
that subsection, of the following paragraph :—
“(cc) a sum equal to one-fourth of any payment
made by such person in any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2002 in the
acquisition of any intangible asset such as a
patent, copyright or trade mark (other than any
goodwill) used by him in any trade or business
carried on by him :
Provided that no deduction shall be allowed
to any person under this paragraph in respect
of any such payment if the total of the sum
deducted in the preceding years of assessment
is equal to the amount of such payment ; ”;
(5) in paragraph (d) of that subsection , by the
substitution for all the words from “such allowance
being” to “computer software”, of the following :—
“such allowance being :—
(i) in the case of the year of assessment
commencing prior to April 1, 2002, an amount
equal to fifty per centum ;
(ii) in the case of every year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2002, an
amount equal to one hundred per centum,
of the cost of acquisition of such computer
software,”;

<!-- page 9 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
8
(6) by the repeal of the proviso to paragraph (f) of that
subsection and the substitution of the following
proviso therefor :—
“Provided that the sum deductible under this
sub-paragraph shall, in the case of a company
carrying on the business of letting premises for
commercial purposes —
(i) for any year of assessment commencing prior
to April 1, 2002, not exceed ten per centum ;
(ii) for any year of assessment commencing on or
after April 1, 2002, insofar as it relates to the
repairs of such premises, not exceed twenty-
five per centum,
of the gross rent receivable by such company for
such premises;”;
(7) in paragraph (k) of that subsection by the substitution
for the words “the expenditure incurred” of the words
and figures “the expenditure incurred in any year of
assessment commencing on or after April 1, 2000
but prior to April 1, 2002”;
(8) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (k) of
that subsection of the following paragraph :—
“(kk) the expenditure including capital expenditure
incurred in any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2002 by such
person in carrying on any scientific, industrial,
agricultural or any other research for the
upgrading of any trade or business carried on
by such person;”;
(9) in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (t) of that
subsection by the substitution for the words
“performance of such trade or business.”, of the
following :—
“performance of such trade or business :

<!-- page 10 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
9
Provided that any expenditure incurred in any
year of assessment commencing on or after April 1,
2002 by such person in training shall be deductible,
irrespective of the length of the period of training.”.
16. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section —
(a) in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c) of that
subsection by the substitution for the words
“in accordance with such paragraph,” of the
following :—
“in accordance with such paragraph :
Provided that a deduction may be allowed in
respect of any expenditure incurred, by such person
in any year of assessment commencing on or after
April 1, 2002 if such expenditure incurred in
travelling outside Sri Lanka is directly related to any
trade, business, profession or vocation carried on,
or exercised by such person. ; ” ;
(b) in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (d) of that
subsection, by the substitution for the words
“accordance with the provision of such paragraph;”,
of the following :—
“accordance with the provisions of such paragraph :
Provided that a deduction may be allowed in
respect of any such expenditure incurred by such
person in any year of assessment commencing on
or after April 1, 2002, if such expenditure incurred
in travelling outside Sri Lanka is directly related to
the carrying on of such business;”;
Amendment of
section 24 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 11 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
10
(c) in paragraph (e) of that subsection by the substitution
for the words “exercised by him;” of the
following :—
“exercised by him :
Provided that a deduction may be allowed in
respect of such entertainment expenses incurred by
such person or on his behalf, in any year of
assessment commencing on or after April 1, 2002,
if the expenses so incurred are directly related to
any trade, business, profession or vocation carried
on, or exercised by such person;”;
(d) in paragraph (f) of that subsection, by the
substitution, for the words “his executive officer”,
of the words “his executive officer, in any year of
assessment commencing prior to  April 1, 2002”;
and
(2) by the addition, immediately after subsection (3)
thereof of the following subsection :—
“(4) In computing the statutory income of any
person from any trade, business, profession or
vocation carried on or exercised by such person, no
deduction shall be allowed under section 23 or
section 24 in respect of any expenditure unless the
amount of such expenditure is paid within three years
from the end of the year of assessment in which such
expenditure is incurred.”.
17. Section 29 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section of the following subsection :—
“(1
A ) The assessable income of a person (other than
a company) for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2002, shall
notwithstanding anything contained in
Amendment of
section 29 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 12 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
11
subsection (1), be his total statutory income
for that year other than the —
(a) statutory income from interest on which
income tax has been deducted under
section 122
A ; and
(b) statutory income from dividends on
which income tax has been deducted
under subsection (1
A ) of section 61,
whether received directly form such
company which distributes the dividend
or through any other company,
subject to the deductions, specified in this
section :
Provided however, where such income
from interest or dividends from which income
tax has been deducted under section 122
A  or
subsection (1A ) of section 61, as the case may
be, have been received by a person in the
course of carrying on any trade or business
as a receipt from such trade or business, such
income from interest or dividends shall form
part of the total statutory income of such
person.”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section —
(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) of that
subsection for the words “payable by such
person”, of the words “payable for that year
of assessment being a year of assessment
commencing prior to April 1, 2002 by such
person.”;
(b) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph
(a) of that subsection of the following :—
“(aa) sums paid by such person for any year
of assessment commencing on or after

<!-- page 13 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
12
April 1, 2002 by way of an annuity,
ground rent, royalty or interest not
deductible under section 23 :
Provided that —
(i) no deduction shall be allowed in
respect of any sum paid by way of
interest, annuity, ground rent or
royalty by a person out of Sri Lanka
to another person out of Sri
Lanka ;
(ii) where for any year of assessment
any such sum paid exceeds the total
statutory income for that year, the
excess shall be treated for the
purposes of this section in the same
manner as a loss incurred in a trade
during that year;
(iii) where any sum is paid by such
person by way of an annuity no
deduction shall be allowed in
respect of such sum unless such
annuity is —
(a) paid under an order of court by
way of payment of alimony or
maintenance ;
(b) paid to his spouse under a duly
executed deed of separation;
(c) in return, for full consideration
in money or moneys worth.
For the purposes of this paragraph the term “interest” means
any interest paid during any year of assessment on any loan
obtained from a bank, financial institution or any other
institution recognised by the Commissioner-General.”.

<!-- page 14 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
13
18. Section 30 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that subsection and
the substitution of the following paragraph therefor :—
“(a) and allowance of —
(i) one hundred and forty four thousand rupees,
in respect of every year of assessment
commencing prior to April 1, 2002; or
(ii) two hundred and forty thousand rupees, in
respect of every year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2002 ; ”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after the first proviso to
that subsection of the following :—
“Provided further, that any person who makes a
declaration under section 2 of the Inland Revenue (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 7 of 2002, shall not, in ascertaining
his taxable income, be entitled to deduct any allowance
under paragraph (b) on any investment or expenditure
made or incurred relating to any investment made in such
declaration.”.
19. Section 31 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :–
(1) in subsection (2) of that section –
(a) in paragraph (h) of that subsection by the
substitution for the words “projection on a
screen in a cinema.”; of the words “projection
on a screen in a cinema ;”;
(b) by the addition, immediately after paragraph
(h) of that subsection, of the following
paragraphs :–
“(i) any expenditure incurred, otherwise than
out of a loan referred to in paragraph (j)
Amendment of
section 30 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 31 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 15 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
14
on or after April 1 , 2002, by an individual
in either the construction or the purchase
of a house being in either case the first
house constructed or purchased by such
individual on or after April 1, 2001 ;
(j) any expenditure incurred, on or after April
1, 2002, by an individual on the
repayment of the capital of any approved
housing loan either for the construction
or the purchase of a house being in either
case the first house constructed or
purchased by such individual on or after
April 1, 2001.
For the purpose of this paragraph
“approved Housing loan” means any
housing loan obtained from the
Government, or any banking institution
within the meaning of the Monetary Law
Act, or any Provincial Fund, any local
authority or any other institution approved
by the Minister in charge of the subject
of Housing.”;
(2) in paragraph (a) of subsection (4) of that section –
(a) in sub-paragraph (v) of that paragraph by the
substitution for the words “twenty five
thousand rupees”, of the words “twenty-five
thousand rupees ;”;
(b) by the insertion immediately after
sub-paragraph (v) of that subsection of the
following sub-paragraph :–
“(vi) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to in paragraphs (i) and (j) of
subsection (2) made by him in that year
of assessment, shall not exceed one-third
of the assessable income or one hundred
thousand rupees which ever is less.”;

<!-- page 16 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
15
(3) by the addition immediately after subsection (6) of
that section of the following subsection :–
“(6A ) The excess of the allowance of any
qualifying payment referred to in paragraph (i) of
subsection (2) which cannot be deducted from the
assessable income in the year of assessment in which
such expenditure is incurred may be apportioned
over a period of not more than nine years
immediately succeeding the year of assessment in
which such expenditure was incurred and such
apportioned amount shall be deemed to be a
qualifying payment made in each such year of
assessment.”.
20. Section 32 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :–
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,
in paragraph (a) of that subsection, for the words
and figures “Part I of the First Schedule”, of the
words and figures “Parts I and IA of the First
Schedule”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section –
(a) by the substitution, for the words and figures,
“Part III of the First Schedule”, of the words
and figures “Parts III and IIIA of the First
Schedule”;
(b) in the proviso to that subsection by the
substitution for all the words from “such sum”,
to the end of that proviso, of the words “such
sum shall be chargeable with income tax in
the manner provided for in subsection (3) as
if the references in that subsection to ‘capital
gain’ were references to ‘such sum’;
Amendment of
section 32 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 17 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
16
(3) in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “a person includes any capital gain”,
of the words “a person, for any year of assessment
commencing prior to April 1, 2002, includes any
capital gain”;
(4) in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “a person includes any capital gain”,
of the words  and figures“a person, for any year of
assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2002,
includes any capital gain”; and
(5) in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “a person includes any capital gains”,
of the words and figures“a person, for any year of
assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2002,
includes any capital gain”;.
21. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 40 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 40
A  and 40B  respectively of that
enactment :–
40A . (1) Where the taxable income of any
company carrying on the business of a
specialized housing bank for any year of
assessment commencing on or after April 1,
2002 includes any profits and income within
the meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 from
such business such part of such taxable income
as consists of such profits and income, shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Act, be chargeable with income tax at the rate
of twenty per centum.
(2) For the purposes of this section
“specialized housing bank” means a licensed
commercial or specialized bank within the
meaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988
which is engaged in lending money only for
activities relating to residential housing.
‘Rate of
income tax
applicable to
specialized
housing
banks.
Insertion of new
sections 40
A  and
40B  of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 18 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
17
40B . (1) The profits and income within the
meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 of any
company referred to in section 21B  for any year
of assessment commencing after the expiry of
the period during which the profits and income
of such company were exempt from income tax
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in this
Act, be chargeable with income tax at the rate
of fifteen per centum.
(2) The profits and income within the meaning
of paragraph (a) of section 3 of any company
referred to in section 21A , shall notwithstanding
anything containing in this Act, for –
(a) each of the two years of assessment
immediately succeeding the period during
which the profits and income of such
company were exempt from income tax,
be taxed at the rate of ten per centum ;
(b) every year of assessment commencing
after the expiry of the period referred to in
paragraph (a) –
(i) if such company is a company
engaged in agriculture or the export
of non-traditional products, be taxed
at fifteen per centum ; and
(ii) if such company is a company other
than a company engaged in
agriculture or the export of non-
traditional products, be taxed at
twenty per centum.’.
22. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 48 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 48
A  of that enactment :—
48A . Where the taxable income of any
person (other than a company) for any year of
assessment includes a dividend declared on or
Rate of
income tax
applicable to
certain
companies
after the
expiry of tax
exemption.
Insertion of new
section 48
A  in the
principal
enactment.
“Rate of
income tax on
certain
dividends.

<!-- page 19 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
18
after April 1, 2002 in the form of shares or
debentures, the taxable income representing
such dividend shall be taxed at the rate of ten
per centum.”.
23. Section 53 of the principal enactment amended by
Act, No. 8 of 2001, is hereby further amended in subsection
(1) of that section as follows :–
(1) in paragraph (a) of that subsection, by the
substitution  for the words “to this Act ; and”, of the
words “to this Act ;
Provided that where the income tax payable by a
company for any year of assessment commencing
on or after April 1, 2002 exceeds one million rupees,
the amount by which the income tax payable by such
company exceeds one million rupees shall not be
more than the amount by which the taxable income
of such company exceeds five million rupees ; and
(2) in paragraph (b) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the words “in that year of
assessment”, of the words and figures “in that year
of assessment being a year of assessment
commencing prior to April 1, 2002 ;”;
(3) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (b) of
that subsection of the following paragraph :–
“(bb) equal to ten per centum of the aggregate
amount of the gross dividends distributed by
such company in that year of assessment;
being an year of assessment commencing
on or after April 1, 2002 out of the profits
on which the taxable income of such
company is computed for any year of
assessment ;”;
Amendment of
section 53 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 20 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
19
(4) in paragraph (c) of that subsection by the substitution
for the words “that year of assessment”, of the words
“that year of assessment being an year of assessment
commencing prior to April 1, 2002 ;”.
24. Section 54 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “for every year of assessment” of the words
“for every year of assessment commencing prior to April 1,
2002”.
25. Section 57 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section by
the substitution for the words “specified in the Second
Schedule; and” of the words “specified in the Second Schedule
to this Act :
Provided that where the inocme tax payable by such
company for any year of assessment on or after April 1,
2002 exceeds one million rupees, the amount by which
the income tax payable by such company exceeds one
million rupees shall not be more than the amount by which
the taxable income of such company exceeds five million
rupees.
26. Section 60 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for all the words from “which
becomes payable to fifteen per centum” of the words :—
“which becomes payable in any year of assessment
commencing prior to March 31, 2002 to any non resident
person if the relevant dividend consists of the whole or any
part of the amount of a dividend not being the whole or any
part of a dividend which is exempt from income tax under
this Act, distributed by any quoted public company on or
before March 31, 2002 and received either directly or through
one or more intermediary companies, by such resident
company, income tax equivalent to ten per centum.”.
Amendment
of section 54
of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 57 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 60 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 21 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
20
27. Section 61 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :–
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “payable to any shareholder” of the
words“payable to a shareholder in any year of
assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2002”; and
(2) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (1) of
that section, of the following subsection :–
“(1
A ) Every resident company, shall be entitled
to deduct from the amount of any gross dividend
payable to any shareholder, on or after April 1, 2002,
in the form of money or an order to pay money out
of profits on which the taxable income of that
company is computed for any year of assessment,
income tax equal to ten per centum.”; and
(3) in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words and figures “under subsection (1)”, of
the words and figures “under subsection (1) or (1
A )”.
28. Section 122 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “in any year of assessment”, of the words and
figures “in any year of assessment commencing prior to April
1, 2002”.
29. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 122 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 122
A  of that enactment :–
122A . (1) Every bank or financial institution
shall, subject to the provisions of this Chapter,
deduct at the time of payment, from the interest
payable by it in any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2002, on any
sum of money –
(a) deposited with it by any person or
partnership in his or its own name or in
Amendment of
section 61 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 122 of the
principal
enactment.
“Bank or
financial
institution to
deduct income
tax on interest
paid.
Insertion of new
section 122
A  in
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 22 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
21
the name of any other person or without
the name of any person or partnership ;
and
(b) the interest payable on which is not less
than six thousand rupees per month or
seventy two thousand rupees a year,
income tax at the rate of ten per centum on the
total amount of the interest earned on such
deposit :
Provided however, the provisions of this
section shall not apply in respect of a institution
certified by the Commissioner - General, as a
charitable institution on any interest which is
not in excess of twelve thousand rupees per
month or one hundred and forty four thousand
rupees a year accruing to such institution on any
deposit :
Provided further that where a person or a
partnership requests in writing to a bank or
financial institution to deduct income tax at the
rate of ten per centum from any interest payable
to such person or partnership in any year of
assessment, on a sum of money deposited by
such person or partnership with such bank or
financial institution, then such bank or financial
institution shall comply with such request
notwithstanding that the interest payable on such
sum of money for that year of assessment is less
than seventy two thousand rupees.
(2) For the purposes of a deduction under
this section –
(a) “interest” in relation to the deposit of a sum
of money includes interest, discount or any
other amount payable to, or accruing to
the benefit of the person or partnership in

<!-- page 23 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
22
whose name, or on whose behalf the sum
of money is deposited but does not include
any interest exempt under section 10 or
any interest payable to any Ministry,
Government Department or any local
government institution or any institution
under a Provincial Council or any Foreign
Government ;
(b) in the case of a discount, interest shall be
deemed to have been paid at the time such
discount is allowed.
(3) Where the Commissioner-General is
satisfied that any bank or financial institution
has devised a method to contravene the
provisions of subsection (1) as regards the
deduction of tax, the Commissioner-General
may impose on such bank or financial institution
a penalty of a sum equivalent to five hundred
per centum of the tax avoided by the use of such
method.
For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby
declared that “deduct at the time of payment
from the interest payable” in subsection (1) shall
include any amount of interest credited to any
account.”.
30. Section 124 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “any year of assessment is less”, of the words
“any year of  assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2002
is less”.
31. Section 131 of the principal enactment amended by
Act, No. 8 of 2001 is hereby further amended in subsection
(2) of that section as follows :—
(1) in paragraph (b) of the definition of “specified fee”,
by the substitution for the words and figures “to any
Amendment of
section 124 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 131 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 24 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
23
year of assessment commencing on or after April 1,
2001”, of the words and figures “to the year of
assessment commencing on April 1, 2001”.
(2) by the addition at the end of that subsection of the
following :—
(c) in relation to any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2002, means
any sum or sums aggregating to not less than—
(i) fifty thousand rupees per month ; and
(ii) five hundred thousand rupees a year in
any other case,
payable by any specified person in that year of
assessment to any person or partnership in
consideration of services rendered by that
person or partnership as the case may be, in
the course of any business, profession, vocation
or other activities of an independent character
carried on or exercised by that person or
partnership, as the case may be, and includes
any commission, brokerage or other sums of
like nature payable by such specified person,
but does not include any sum payable by such
specified person to any employee of such
specified person in the course of employment
under such specified person or any rent or other
payment payable for the use or occupation of
any specified land or building as defined in
subsection (2) of section 131B.”.
32. The following new Chapter is hereby inserted
immediately after Chapter XVI of the principal enactment
and shall have effect as Chapter XVIA of that enactment :—
Insertion of new
Chapter XVIA in
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 25 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
24
“CHAPTER XVIA
D EDUCTION  OF  INCOME  TAX  FROM  RENT , LEASE  RENT  OR  OTHER
PAYMENT  PAID  BY  ANY  PERSON  OR  PARTNERSHIP  FOR  THE  USE  OR
OCCUPA TION  OF  ANY  LAND  OR  BUILDING  OTHER  THAN  FOR
RESIDENTIAL  PURPOSES
131A . Every person or partnership paying
any rent, lease rent or other payment for the use
or occupation otherwise than as a residence, of
any specified land or building on or after April
1, 2002 shall deduct at the time of the payment
of such rent, lease rent or other payment, income
tax at the rate of ten per centum of such rent,
lease rent or other payment.
131
B . (1) The provisions of Chapter XV
relating to the deduction of income tax from
interest paid by banks and financial institutions,
credit for income tax so deducted, duties of
banks and financial institutions, default in the
deduction of income tax, issue of assessments
on banks and financial institutions, appeals and
penalty for default shall, mutatis mutandis apply
to the deduction of income tax from such rent,
lease rent or other payments as is mentioned in
section 131
A , credit for income tax so deducted,
duties of persons liable to pay such rent, lease
rent, or other payment, default in the deduction
of income tax, issue of assessments on such
persons, appeals and penalty for default under
this Chapter, as if there were substituted in
Chapter XV for the words “banks and financial
institutions” of the words “persons liable to pay
such rent, lease rent or other payment” and for
the word “interest” of the words “rent, lease rent
or other payment” wherever they appear in that
Chapter, subject however, to the modification
that credit for income tax deducted under the
Persons
paying rent,
lease rent etc.
to deduct
income tax.
Application
of the
provisions of
Chapter XV
to this
Chapter.

<!-- page 26 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
25
provisions of this Chapter by any person from
any rent, lease rent or any other payment paid
to any co-owners of such property shall be
apportioned among such co-owners in
proportion to their rights of ownership in such
property.
(2) For the purposes of this Chapter—
“specified land or building” means a land or
building in respect of which the amount of rent,
lease rent or other payment payable for any
calendar month or part thereof is not less than
fifty thousand rupees or the aggregate rent, lease
rent or other payment payable for any year is
not less than five hundred thousand rupees.”.
33. Section 186 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the definition of “executive officer” by the
substitution for the words “not less than five thousand rupees”;
of the words “not less than twenty thousand rupees;
34. The First Schedule to the principal enactment
amended by Act, No. 8 of 2001 is hereby further amended as
follows :—
(1) In Part I of that Schedule by the substitution for the
words and figures “referred to in Part II” of the words
and figures “referred to in Part II for any year of
assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2002” ;
(2) by the insertion immediately after Part I of that
Schedule of the following Part :—
“PART 1A
Individuals other than those referred to in Part II,
for any year of assessment commencing on or after
April 1, 2002
On the first Rs. 180,000 of the taxable income
10 per centum
Amendment of
section 186 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
the Fifth Schedule
to the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 27 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
26
On the next Rs. 180,000 of the taxable income
20 per centum
on the balance 35 per centum” ;
(3) In Part III of that Schedule by the substitution for
the words and figures “subsection (2) of section 32”,
of the words and figures “subsection (2) of section
32 for every year of assessment commencing prior
to April 1, 2002” ; and
(4) by the addition at the end of that Schedule, of the
following :—
“PART IIIA
The rate of income tax applicable to certain profits
from employment specified in subsection (2) of
section 32, for any year of assessment commencing
on or after April 1, 2002—
on the first Rs. 1,000,000 … Nil
on the next Rs. 500,000 … 5 per centum
on the next Rs. 500,000 … 10 per centum
on the balance … 15 per centum.”.
35. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended as follows :—
(1) by the substitution, for the words “unit trust and
mutual fund”, enactment  of the words and figures
“unit trust and mutual fund for every year of
assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2002” ;
and
(2) by the addition, at the end of that Schedule of the
following :—
“company, including unit trust and mutual fund for
every year of assessment commencing on or after
April 1, 2002—
Amendment of
the First Schedule
to the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 28 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
27
where the taxable income of the company, unit trust
or mutual fund does not exceed Rs. 5,000,000 in
that year of assessment
20 per centum
where the taxable income of the company, unit trust
or mutual fund exceeds Rs. 5,000,000 in that year
of assessment
35 per centum.”
36. The Fifth Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended by the substitution for the words “advance
company tax shall be as follows :—” of the following :—
“advance company tax for every year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2000 but prior to
April 1, 2002 shall be as follows :—.”.
37. (1) Any person who, or any partnership which,
deducts tax and remits such tax to the Commissioner-General
as provided for in section 122
A , 131 or 131A , as the case may
be during the period commencing on April 1, 2002 to the
date of commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to have
acted with due authority and is hereby indemnified from any
civil or criminal prosecution in respect of such deduction and
remittance.
(2) Any bank or financial institution which for reasons
beyond its control has been unable to deduct such tax as is
provided for in section 122
A  for the period commencing on
April 1, 2002 to the date of commencement of this Act, shall
where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that the inability
to deduct such tax was for reasons beyond the control of such
bank or financial institution, be deemed not to have
contravened the said provisions of this Act.
38. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Amendment of
the Fifth
Schedule to the
principal
enactment.
Indemnity.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 29 -->

Inland Revenue  (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 2002
28
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS   HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in   respect
 of the year following.