

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2013
1491
1491
wxl 1"823 - 2013 wf.daia;= 08 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'08'08
No. 1,823 – THURSDAY AUGUST 08, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1493
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 30th August, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th
August, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2013
1492
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2013
1493
MINISTRY  OF  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE
Recruitment to the Post of Primary Grade Medical Officer
of Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Serivce
APPLICATIONS are invited from Citizens of Sri Lanka who have
satisfied the qualifications mentioned in this notification by
01.01.2013 for recruitment to the vacant post of Primary Grade
Medical Officer of the category of Medical Officer in the Department
of Ayurveda.
01. Method of Recruitment.– After recruitment of all Registered
Medical Practitioners of the first batch who have fulfilled all
qualifications mentioned in the Ayurveda Service Minute by
01.01.2013 and passed the Final Degree (Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani)
and not received apointments in the Public Service so far for the
vacancies existing in the approved cadre in order of merit based on
the marks each of them has obtained at the Final Degree Examination,
the other Ayurveda/Siddha/Yunani Graduate Medical Practitioners
of the batches of subsequent years will be selected in order of the
years they have passed the examinations and on the basis of above
mentioned merit and after verification of their quailfications by an
interview to be held by a Board of Interview approved by the
Public Service Commission.
02. Required qualifications :
(i) Educational/Professional Qualifications :
Medical Officer registered with the Ayurvedic Medical
Council who, having obtained a Degree after following
a five-year course of study in Ayurveda, Siddha or
Unani at a recognized University, has subsequently
completed a one year period of internship.
(ii) Physical qualifications :
Every Applicant should possess a phyiscal, mental
fitness and a good eye sight sufficient for performing
duties in any area in Sri Lanka and carrying out duties
in his post.
(iii) Other qualifications :
y Should be a Citizen of Sri Lanka.
y The Applicants should have an excellent character.
y Should have fulfilled in every way the
qualifications required for recruitment to the post
by 01.01.2013.
03. Conditions of Employment and Service Conditions :
(i) This is a permanent and pensionable post and should
pay contributions to the Widows/Widowers and
Orphan Children's Pensions Scheme.
(ii) Appointment will be subject to a 03 years period of
probation. After recruitment to the Primary Grade
Posts – Vacant
posts, promotions will be made as per the rules and
conditions set out in the Service Minute of the Sri
Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service.
(iii) The proficiency required in the other official language
in addition to the language in which the officer has
taken  his  appointment  should  be  obtained  within
05 years of recruitment to the post as per Public
Administration Circular No. 07/2007.
(iv) This appointment will be subject to the procedural
ruels of the Public Service Commission, Provisions of
the Financial Regulations and Establishments Code.
04. Age limit.– Should not be over 40 years of age by 01.01.2013.
05. Salary Scale .– This post is entitled to a salary scale of
Rs. 25,515 - 4 x 645 - 8x 650 - 16x1,050 - Rs. 50,095 per month.
Salary Segment SL 2-2006 of Public Administration Circular No.
06/2006 (The initial step of salary is Rs. 26,160).
06. Identity of Candidates .– Only the candidates who have
forwarded perfect applications will be called for the interview.
Originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should be
submitted at the interview.
Applicants should come ready for presenting one or all of the
following documents at the request of the Board of Interview :
(i) Birth certificate.
(ii) Degree certificate.
(iii) Certificate of Registration at the Ayurveda Medical
Council.
(iv) Grama Niladhari certificate countersigned by the
Divisional Secretary.
(v) National Identity Card.
07. ( a) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach
the following address on or before 07.09.2013.
Applications received after that date will be rejected.
Commissioner of Ayurveda
Department of Ayurveda
Old Kottawa Road
Nawinna, Maharagama.
(b) There is a specimen application to be followed at the
end of this notification. Applicant should prepare his
application in A4 size paper, arrange numbers 01 to 09
on the first page and numbers 10 to 11 on the second
page and fill it in his own hand writing.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2013
1494
(c) "Recruitment to the post of Medical Officer Primary
Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayruveda Medical Service"
should be mentioned at the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application.
(d) The signature of the Applicant on the application
should be certified by a Principal of a Government
School/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/
Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/a Commissioned
Officer of the Three Forces or a Public Officer holding
a permanent post and drawing a combined monthly
salary of Rs. 22,935.
(e) Officers presently serving in Public Service or
Provincial Public Service should forward their
applications through the Head of the Department they
serve in.
(f) Applications not in conformity with the specimen
application coming herewith will be rejected. No
complaint about loss or delay of applications will be
entertained.
08. Furnishing False Information. – Your candidacy will be
invalidated if any information furnished by you in the application
is revealed to be false or incorrect before recruitment.
If such false or incorrect information are revealed after
recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss from service subject to
the relevant courses of action.
09. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill
vacancies or keep them unfilled.
On approval of the Public Service Commission,
L
ALITH KANNANGARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine.
N. M. Perera Mawatha,
Colombo 08,
15th July, 2013.
(For office use only)
POST OF PRIMARY GRADE MEDICAL OFFICER
OF MEDICAL OFFICER SEGMENT OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF AYURVEDA  IN SRI LANKA
AYURVEDA MEDICAL SERVICE
01. (i) ( a) Surname with initials (in block capitals) :–––––––––.
(b) Surname with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
(ii) (a) Names denoted by initials (in block capitals) :––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––.
02. (i) Permanent Address (in block capitals) :–––––––––.
(Letters are sent to this address)
(ii) T elephone No. :–––––––––.
03. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 01 .01.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Gender :
Female Male
(Put 'x' in the relevant cage)
05.Marital Status :
Married Unmarried
(Put 'x' in the relevant cage)
06. Whether a Sri Lankan :–––––––––.
07. Nationality :–––––––––.
08. (i) Provincial Council :–––––––––.
(ii) District :–––––––––.
(iii) Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––.
to which the permanent residence belongs.
09. National Identity Card No. :
10. Educational qualifications :
Degree Particulars –
(BAMS) (BUMS) (BSMS)
(put 'x' in the relevant cage)
1. University/Institution :–––––––––.
2. Date of Convocation :–––––––––.
3. Class :–––––––––.
4. Medium in which you completed the Degree :––––––––.
5. Year of the Practical Training :–––––––––.
11. Particulars about registration in the Ayurveda Medical Council :
1. No. :–––––––––.
2. Year :–––––––––.
I certify that the particulars furnished in this application are
true and correct. I am aware that, if any of the particulars herein is
revealed to the Appointing Authority to be false or incorrect after
my selection to the post of Ayurveda Medical Officer, I will be

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2013
1495
subject to be disqualified to this psot and be dismissed from service
without any compensation.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Attesting the Applicant's Signature  :
I certify that I personally know ............................ (Full name)
presenting this application and that he/she put her signature before
me on ..............................
–––––––––––––,
Signature and Official Stamp  of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––.
R
EPORT OF HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT IF THE APPLICANT IS IN
PUBLIC SERVICE
I certify that the above mentioned particulars are correct and
his/her performance and conduct are ............................. He/She can
be released from his/her present post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and Official Stamp of
Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––.
08–90
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.