

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2292
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … - 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"409 – 2024 fkdjeïn¾ ui 01 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'11'01
No. 2,409 –  FRiday, NoVEmbER, 01, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd November, 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th November, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2289 - b 082623 - 5,403 (11/2024)
N. B.–   Parts iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2408 of 25.10.2024 was not published. 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2290
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2291
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2292
mINISTR y Of JuSTICE  PubLIC  
ADmINISTRATION , hOmE  AffAIRS , 
PROvINCIAL  COuNCILS , LOCAL  
GOvERNmENT  AND LAbOuR
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in 
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, 
Sri Lanka Architects’ Service,  
Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service and Sri Lanka 
Planning Service - 2020(I) and Second Efficiency 
Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka 
Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Accountants’ 
Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service – 2020(II) 
01. it  is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar  
Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka 
administrative Service, Sri Lanka Engineering 
Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka 
architects’ Service, Sri Lanka accountants’ Service 
and Sri Lanka Planning Service 2020(i) and Second 
Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri 
Lanka administrative Service, Sri Lanka accountants’ 
Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service – 2020(ii)
shall be held in colombo during weekends from 
30.11.2024 to 22.12.2024 by the director General, 
Sri Lanka institute of development administration, 
under the supervision and direction of ministry 
of Justice, Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial councils, Local Government and Labour.
02.  The Efficiency Bar Examinations which is due to 
be held in respect of the above services shall be as 
follows:
Serial 
No: Name of  the examination Code
1.
1st Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service
SLaS 1
2.
1st Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Engineering  
Service
SLES
3. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service SLSS
4. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Architects’ Service SLarS
5.
1st Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Accountants’ 
Service
SLacS 1
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
Serial 
No: Name of  the examination Code
6. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service SLPS 1
7. other services which can apply for the 
above examination other
8.
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service 
SLaS 2
9.
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Accountants’ 
Service
SLacS 2
10. 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service SLPS 2
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at 
different occasions at their discretion. However, it is 
compulsory to pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations 
within the prescribed period.
04. this examination shall be conducted by the director 
General of Sri Lanka institute of development 
administration and the candidates shall be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by him with 
regard to conducting the examination. candidates 
shall be subjected to any punishment imposed by the 
disciplinary authority for violation of these rules and 
regulations.
05. applications for the examination can strictly be 
made online through www.slida.lk , the official 
web site of the Sri Lanka institute of development 
administration. you should create a User account 
by visiting “Examination applications” on the Home 
Page of the website or directly through the link 
https://examinationportal.slida.lk/application.  after 
creating a User account in the above manner, you can 
fill out the application for the examination. Online 
applications should be filled out only in English.
 Filling of applications is strictly allowed during the 
period from 8.00 a.m. on 01.11.2024 up to 12.00 
midnight on 17.11.2024.
06. i.   Examination Fees - the candidates appearing 
for the examination for the first time need not 
to pay the examination fees. at such occasions 
where a candidate, who has made application, has 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2293
not sat for the examination even after issuing an 
admission by Sri Lanka institute of development 
administration that should be considered as a 
sitting for the examination.
 ii. Officers who have appeared for the examination 
before, have to pay the examination fees as follows.
  Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, 
Sri Lanka accountants’ Service and Sri Lanka 
Planning Service should pay the examination 
fee considering that the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination as one Examination and Second 
Efficiency Bar examination as another examination. 
accordingly, Rs.500 should be paid if it is applied 
only for one subject of the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination and Rs. 1000 should be paid if it is 
applied for more than one subject. Rs. 500 should 
be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the 
Second Efficiency Bar Examination and Rs. 1000 
should be paid if it is applied for more than one 
subject.
 iii.  The Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service,  
Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka 
architects’ Service should pay Rs.1000, if they 
applying for more than one subject of the First 
Efficiency Bar Examination and Rs.500 should be 
paid, if they are sitting for only one subject.
 
 iv.  Examination fees should be credited to the 
following bank account.  
  Name of the account - Secretary, ministry of Public 
Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils 
and Local Government
  account Number - 310100119027430
  bank - Peoples' bank, bambalapitiya branch
  the receipt number relevant to the payment should 
be mentioned in the application and a photocopy of 
the receipt should be uploaded in the relevant place 
of the application.
 v.  Further, when crediting money to the account, the 
money deposit slip should be filled by entering the 
applicant's name along with the applicant's national 
identity card number as the payer and the code 
of the examination relevant to you as the reason 
for depositing the money (the code should be as 
mentioned in Section 02). The officers who make 
the payment online should also mentioned the 
above particulars in the relevant places.
 vi.  Further, when crediting money to the account, the 
application shall be filled including the name of 
the applicant as the remitter and the N.i.c. number 
of the applicant at the space for the address of the 
remitter.
Note.–  This examination is conducted for the officers in 
Executive category of the government. therefore, 
it is expected that accurate details will be included 
when submitting applications and the examination 
fees will be paid properly as required. Necessary 
action shall be taken against the applicants, if 
instances such as inaccurately including important 
details such as the name, National identity card 
number of the applicant, submitting several 
applications by the same applicant, selecting an 
irrelevant service for the examination, including 
false information concerning the sitting of the 
examination and non-payment of the examination 
fees, are revealed. it should be emphasized that 
the said action may be suspension of examination 
results, cancellation of candidature or other 
disciplinary punishments imposed after calling for 
explanation.           
07. Getting Admissions for the first Efficiency Bar 
examination prescribed for Sri Lanka administrative 
Service, Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects’ Service, Sri 
Lanka accountants’ Service and Sri Lanka Planning 
Service and second Efficiency Bar Examination 
prescribed for Sri Lanka administrative Service, Sri 
Lanka accountants’ Service and Sri Lanka Planning 
Service.
 When filling out the application online, it is compulsory 
for the applicant to have an active email address and 
a mobile number. once the perfected application is 
submitted online, a message confirming receipt of the 
same will be sent to that email address and the mobile 
number.
 after the screening of applications is completed. y ou 
can download the admission by logging into the user 
account created by you. You will be notified of the 
same by SmS. the candidates should submit a copy of 
the admission to the respective head of the department 
to be filled in their personal files.
Note.–  the private address, workplace and address of the 
workplace shall be clearly included when filling 
out the application online. 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2294
08. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting 
applications can be obtained through the telephone 
number 011 - 5980236 of Sri Lanka institute of 
development administration. communication can be 
made through this line from 8.30 a.m. up to 4.15 p.m. 
during working days of the week from 01.11.2024 
to 17.11.2024.
09. Heads of departments should grant duty leave for 
the officers who possess admissions enabling them 
to sit for the examination. if it is required to get their 
candidature confirmed, it can be done through the 
telephone number 011- 5980236. candidates shall 
not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the 
examination. 
10. Identity of Candidates. – candidates shall be required 
to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they 
offer.  For this purpose, one of the following documents 
should be submitted to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a  valid Passport.
 the candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at 
the discretion of the director General of Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration.
11. the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English media. if it is found that a candidate has 
appeared for the examination in a language medium 
that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such 
applicant shall be cancelled. A candidate shall not be 
permitted to change the language medium indicated in 
the application form.
12. Scheme of examination - Subjects and the syllabus 
of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows. 
duration of each question paper is three (03 hours). 
at least forty (40) marks shall be obtained for each 
subject by a candidate to pass this Efficiency Bar 
Examination.  
12.1 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in 
Sri Lanka administrative Service: (appendix 
"G" of Sri Lanka administrative Service minute 
published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 
1842/2 dated 23.12.2013)
 The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, 
who have not completed this examination so far, 
shall be eligible to sit for this examination. 
 The subjects of the 1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination are given below :
Serial 
Number Subject Duration Subject 
Number
01. Law
constitutional Law and 
administrative Law 03 hours 01– i
the Legal Systems of 
Sri Lanka 03 hours 01 – ii
criminal Law and   Law 
of Evidence 03 hours 01 – iii
02. administration 03 hours 02 – i
03. Economics and Social Science 03 hours 03
04.
Financial management and 
procurement procedure in the 
public sector
03 hours 04
12.1.1  Law 
 three question papers based on the following:
 First (i) question paper - 
 Constitutional Law and Administrative 
Law (Subject No. 01 - I) (100 marks)
 (i)  the structure of the constitution of Sri Lanka and 
the Republic constitution of 1978 with the historical 
development.
 (ii)  the Executive, President of the Republic, Prime 
minister, cabinet of ministers and Public Service.
 (iii)  administration of Justice.
 (iv)  Judicial control over administration.
 (v)  directive Principles of the State Policy and 
Fundamental duties.
 (vi)  delegated Legislation.
 (vii)  Liability of the State and the Public authorities.
 (viii)  Fundamental Rights.
Second (II) question paper - 
The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 01-II) 
(100 marks)
 (i) administration of Justice
 (ii)  the Legal History of Sri Lanka
 (iii) the organization of the courts
 (iv) the courts ordinance of Sri Lanka(chapter 6)
 (v) administration of Justice act, No. 44 of 1971

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2295
Third (III) question paper -
Criminal Law and Law of Evidence (Subject No. 01-III) 
(100 marks)
  
 (i)  the Penal code
 (ii)  the Evidence ordinance.
a  candidate shall be required to obtain a minimum of thirty 
five (35%) of marks in each paper and an average of forty 
percent (40%)in order to pass the subject of law.
12.1.2 Administration (Subject No. 02-I- 100 marks)
a  question paper based on the following:
(i)  Office and field organization and methods of 
organization.
(ii)  Following chapters of the Establishment code
 chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, 
XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, 
XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii), 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission.
12.1.3 Economics and Sociology 
 (Subject No. 03 - 100 marks)
 this question paper consists of two parts.
 First (i) part – Economics 
  
 (i)  Principles of Economics with special reference to 
theories of Value, Production and distribution.
 (ii)  money, Production and distribution.
 (iii)  Economic background of Sri Lanka and policies, 
strategies and programmes relevant to economic 
development with special reference to the 
Economic Structure of Sri Lanka.
Second (ii) part – Sociology
 (i)  Social Structure,  organization and Functions.
 (ii)  Human Relationships and Groupings.
 (iii)  Kinship, marriage and the Family.
 (iv)  Rural and Urban Society.
 (v)  Social Stratification and Differentiations.
 (vi)  Social control.
 (vii)  culture, Religion, morals and Values.
a  candidate shall be required to obtain at least twenty (20) 
marks for each part to pass the subject of Economics and 
Sociology. 
12.1.4  financial management and procurement 
procedure in the public sector (Subject No. 04 – 
100 marks) 
a  question paper based on the following.
(i)  Financial Control in Sri Lanka;
• constitutional Provisions Relating to the 
management of Public Finance
• Parliamentary control over Public Finance
• meaning of Fund
• the consolidated Fund and its operation
• meaning and methods of appropriation 
• contingencies Fund
• other Funds and their operation
• Government Revenue
• Powers and Functions of the minister of Finance
• Powers and Functions of the t reasury
• Warrants and imprest authority
• auditor General, his powers and functions
• committee on Public accounts (coP a)
• committee on Public Enterprises (coPE)
(ii)  Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting 
Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers, their 
powers and functions/ accountability and nature of 
accountability.
(iii)  internal audit
(iv)  Public Expenditure Planning and management.
• Identification of Organizational objectives and 
functions.
• Identification of Public policies, goals, targets and 
Work programmes.
• Planning and appraisal of development Projects 
and programmes and prioritization of them.
• Formulation and finalization of Annual Estimates 
of revenue and expenditure.
(v)  Variations of approved Estimates of Expenditure:
• application of Virement Procedure
• management of Public Sector cadres and salaries
• t otal cost Estimates and Revisions
• Supplementary Estimates
(vi)  Losses and waivers of government properties
(vii)  miscellaneous accounting matters
(viii)  Delegation of functions for financial Control
(ix)  custody of public money and bank accounts 
Procedure

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2296
(x)  Government Procurement Process
  * Government Procurement manual
  * Government Procurement Guidelines
12.2 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in 
Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Schedule “iii” of 
Sri Lanka Engineering Service minute, Published 
in the Gazette extraordinary No.1836/6 dated 
11.11.2013)
 The officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, who 
have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination 
are as follows :
 
Serial 
No. Subject Duration Subject 
Number
01 administration 03 hours 02- ii
02 Financial Systems 03 hours 05- i
03
department/ 
establishment 
methodologies 
Since  this  examination 
is conducted by the 
Head of the institution, 
particulars in this 
regard are not published 
in this notification. 
The minimum marks required to pass each subject is 40.
12.2.1 Administration (Subject No. - 02-II -100 marks)
 a  question paper prepared in relation to the 
functions of Engineering Service based on 
volume I of the Establishments Code published 
in 1985 and all the chapters in V olume ii of the 
Establishments code published in 1999 and the 
Procedural Rules of Public Service commission 
(subjected to timely revisions).
12.2.2  financial systems (Subject No. – 05-I - 100 
marks)
 a  question paper prepared in relation to the 
functions of Engineering Service based on all 
the chapters in Financial Regulations published 
in 1992 except chapter iX and X and criteria for 
national procurement guidelines (subjected to 
timely revisions) 
12.3 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers 
in Sri Lanka Scientific Service (Appendix 4 of 
Sri Lanka Scientific Service Minute, Published 
in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/27 dated 
28.08.2014) and
 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers 
in Sri Lanka architects’ Service (appendix 4 of 
Sri Lanka architects’ Service minute, Published 
in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/28 dated 
28.08.2014) 
Subjects of these examinations are as follows.
Subject Duration Subject 
Number
Financial Systems 03 hours 05- ii
administration 03 hours 02- iii
departmental regulations 
Since this examination 
is conducted by the 
Head of the institution, 
particulars in this regard 
are not published in this 
notification.
12.3.1 Financial Systems (Subject No. - 05-II - 100 marks)
a question paper based on the following.
(i)  Financial control in Sri Lanka;
• constitutional Provisions Relating to Public 
Financial management
• Parliamentary control over Public Finance
• Definition of Fund
• consolidated Fund and its function
• Object and Methodologies of 
appropriation 
• contingent Fund
• other Funds and their functions
• State Revenue
• Powers and role of the Finance minister
• Powers and role of the General treasury
• Warrants and imprest authority
• Powers and role of the auditor General
• committee on Public accounts (coP a)
• committee on Public Enterprises (coPE)
 
(ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief 
Accounting Officers on State Revenue Accounting 
Officers, their powers and role/accountability and 
the nature of their responsibilities.
(iii)  internal audit

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2297
(iv)  Planning and management of Public Expenditure
• Identification of Organizational Objectives and 
Functions
• Identification of Public Policies, objectives, 
targets and Programmes 
• Planning of Development Projects and 
Programmes and Prioritizing the evaluation.
• Preparation of annual estimate on income and 
expenditure and taking final decisions.
(v)  making changes of approved Estimates 
• implementation of Virement Procedure
• management of cadre and salaries of public 
sector
• total cost Estimates and making Revisions to 
the same
• Supplementary Estimates
 (vi) Losses and omissions of state properties
 (vii) Various accounting activities
 (viii) Entrusting tasks for financial management
 (ix) Custody of public finance and Procedure of bank 
accounts
 (x) Government Procurement Process
• code of Procurement Procedure Government
• Procurement Guidelines of the Government 
Note :  the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 
40% marks for the subject. 
12.3.2 Administration (Subject No. - 02-III - 100 marks)
a question paper is based on the following.
(i)  Following chapters of the Establishment code
 chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, 
XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, 
XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii
(ii)  Procedural Rules of Public Service 
commission published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
Note :  the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 
40% marks for the subject. 
12.4  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers 
of Sri Lanka accountants’ Service: (the appendix  
03 of the Service minute of Sri Lanka accountants’ 
Service published on the Gazette extraordinary 
dated 10.09.2010 and No.: 1670/33)
The officers in Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service, 
who have not completed this examination so far, 
shall be eligible to sit for this examination.
Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination 
are as follows 
Serial 
No. Subject Duration 
(Hours)
Subject 
No.
01. Government Financial 
Procedures 03 Hours 06
02. Law and management 03 Hours 07
03 administration 03 Hours 02- iV
04
Report writing and 
Presenting information to 
management
03 Hours 08
12.4.1 Government Financial Regulations 
 (Subject No. 06) (100 marks)
candidates will be tested on the application of Financial 
Regulations and treasury circulars in government 
transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they 
relate to revenue, expenditure, foreign aid, annual and 
supplementary estimates, public debt, supplies, tenders, 
imprests and advances, financial sanctions, the account 
of the Island, functional and economic classifications, 
programme and performance budgeting, functions of the 
minister of Finance, the General treasury, the ministry 
of Planning, the Secretaries, the auditor General and the 
Public accounts committee.
12.4.2 Law and Management (Subject No. 07) (100 marks)
Law  - Definition of Law
Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 
courts Systems of Sri Lanka 
Law of contract 
Law of agency 
Sale of goods 
Hire purchase 
Negotiable instruments 
Guarantee of Securities
insurance
management -  introduction to management 
Functions and skills of managers 
Planning process and setting 
 organizational levels 
organization Structure 
Human resource management 
Performance evaluation 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2298
Promotion 
motivation 
Leadership 
communication 
decision making 
Conflict resolution 
Change Management Conflicts 
 management time management 
Quality circles and Production and 
 Result
management ethics and 
responsibilities
12.4.3 Administration (Subject No.: 02-IV) (100 marks)
 chapters of the Establishments code. Vii, iX, Xi, 
Xii, XV , XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, 
XXiX, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii, 
XLViii and
 Public Service commission rules and procedure 
volume i-Vi
12.4.4 Report writing and presenting information to the 
Management (Subject No.: 08) (100 marks)
 importance of accuracy, of timeliness and of 
perfection of management information. dealing 
with reference information 
 Periodic and ad-hoc reports 
 Writing minutes of meetings and notes 
 Structure of management reports 
 important results that should be highlighted 
 interpretation of results 
 Suggesting variations 
 Use of statistical name systems in data analysis 
 comparison of Performance 
 Use of ratios and percentages in management 
  reports 
 diagrammatic representation 
 Listening to Professional talks and lectures 
 Reporting lectures through speech 
 Panel discussions 
 Seminar abilities 
 delivering a speech 
Note :  the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 
40% marks for the each subject to pass.
12.5 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers 
in Sri Lanka Planning Service: (the appendix c 
Service minute of the Sri Lanka Planning Service 
published on the Gazette extraordinary dated 
10.09.2010 and No. 1670/32) 
    The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who 
have not completed this examination so   far, shall 
be eligible to sit for this examination.
Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination 
are as follows 
Serial 
No. Subject Duration 
(Hour)
Subject 
No.
01
Planning concepts, 
methodology and Planning 
institutions
03 09
02 Economic analysis and 
statistics 03 10
03
Project Planning, 
implementation monitoring 
and Evaluation
03 11
04
institutional Regulations 
and Public Sector Financial 
methods
03 12
05 English Language 03 13
12.5.1 the examination should be passed within the 
prescribed time period as per the provisions in the 
Service minute and the Letter of appointment and 
an officer is allowed to appear for all the papers at 
one sitting or different sittings for each subject. 
Scheme of Examination
12.5.2  Planning concepts, methodology and Planning 
institutions 
 (Subject No. - 09)
             (100 marks)
 i.  National Objectives and priorities and planning 
policy framework and programmes for their 
achievement. 
 ii.  Methodology for National Planning, Major 
problem areas in Planning, Public participation and 
mobilization of resources etc.
 iii.  Nature and sources of data for National Planning. 
collection of data, Presentation of interpretation 
and analysis, field supervision and investigations 
demographic concepts, economic projections and 
policy analysis

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2299
12.5.3 Economic Analysis and statistics (Subject No. 10)
(100 marks)
 i.  Principles of economics with special emphasis on 
the theories of production and distribution
 ii.  Finance, banking Systems, international Financial 
methods and t rade
 iii.  Analysis of monetary, Monetary Trade and Tariff  
Policies
 iv.  Economic structure of Sri Lanka
 v.  Review of the Economy
 vi.  assessment of technically skilled and unskilled 
manpower and other resources including 
  foreign aid and their utilization.
 vii.  Economics and Social incidents.
 viii.  Economic analysis and basis statistical concepts 
and methods used in Planning
 ix.  Principles of Benefit / Cost Analysis.
12.5.4  Project Planning, Implementation, Supervision and 
Monitoring (Subject No. 11)
 (100 marks)
 i.  Planning, Identification and defining Projects and 
Project Planning Policies, theories, selection 
of location, Estimation of technology and cost 
and benefits,Technical, financial and economic 
analysis.
 ii.  Project Implementation and operation/
supervision, proper and timely implementation 
of  projects and programmes, Preparation of 
detailed operational plans and implementation 
schedules, coordination of monitoring and 
progress control and follow up action.
 iii. Evaluation of Projects, Assessment of 
effectiveness of projects and programmes 
analysis of benefits in relation to costs.
12.5.5  institution Regulations and Financial methods of 
the Public Sector (Subject No. 12)
             (100 marks)
  i.  Government Financial Regulations. V olume 1 
(except chapter X)
 ii.  chapters Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XV , XXiii, XXV , 
XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, 
XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii, XLViii and
  chapters i to Vi of the Public Service 
commission procedure and rules.
 iii.  Financial control of Sri Lanka.– Statutory 
Provisions relating to Public Finance 
management, Parliamentary control over 
Public Finance, consolidated Fund and 
its operation, aim of appropriation and 
appropriation methods, State revenue, powers 
and function of minister of Finance, powers 
and the function of the treasury, Warrant and 
imprest authority, auditor General, his powers 
and function, Public Expenditure committee, 
Public Enterprises committee.
 iv.  Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief 
Accounting Officers and Accounting officers of 
State Revenue their powers and function.
 v.  Planning and management of State Expenditure, 
Identification of Objectives and Functions 
of organizations, Preparation of annual 
Estimates and Expenditure and taking final 
decisions, Effecting changes in the approved  
Estimates of Expenditure, implementation of 
Virement Procedure, management of cadres in 
the Public Sector, Supplementary Estimates.
 vi.  Government Procurement Procedure.–
  Procuring Goods, Services and Work, 
composition of tender boards and technical 
Evaluation committees, Powers and Function 
of appointment, tender Evaluation Procedure, 
Management of Foreign Funded projects.
12.5.6  English Language (Subject No. 13) (100 marks) 
i.  a  written examination in English Language will 
be held to test the academic and professional 
knowledge of English of candidates in relation 
to subject of Planning, Development and 
management.
  Note : the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 
40% marks for the each subject.
12.6 Second Efficiency Bar examination for the officers 
in Sri Lanka administrative Service: (appendix “h” 
of the Service minute of Sri Lanka administrative 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2300
Service published in the Gazette e xtraordinary  
No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013)
 The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, 
who have not completed this examination so far, 
shall be eligible to sit for this examination. 
The subjects for this examination are as follows;
Serial 
No. Subject Duration Subject 
No.
01
Economic and Social Policy 
(With special reference to Sri 
Lanka) 
03 hours 14
02
Process of development 
administration (with special 
reference to Sri Lanka)
03 hours 15
03
Use of information and 
communication technology 
for management 
03 hours 16
04 Proficiency in the link 
language (English) 03 hours 17
12.6.1 Economic and social policies (with special 
reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 14) 
 (100 marks)
 This question paper is based on matters affecting 
the formulation of economic and social policies 
using principles of Economics and Social Sciences 
in the context of recent economic, social and 
political history of Sri Lanka.
 
Note :  the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 
40% marks for this subject.
12.6.2 Process of development administration (with 
special reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 15)
(100 marks)
 this question paper is based on the functioning and 
inter-relationships of institutions entrusted with the 
responsibility of development administration with 
special reference to matters mentioned below:
 (i)  State machinery of Sri Lanka
 (ii)  constitutional background of the state 
machinery of Sri Lanka
 (iii)  Provincial councils and local government 
institutions
 (iv)  People’s organizations
 (v)  Public corporations
Note : the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% 
marks for this subject.
12.6.3 Use of information and communication technology 
for management (Subject No. 16) 
            (100 marks)
 this is a practical test conducted by the Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration to test the 
knowledge of the applicant on following subject 
areas. 
 (i)  importance of the use of information 
and communication technology for state 
institutes
 (ii)  data analysis and preparation of reports
 (iii)  data base management and retrieval of 
information
 (iv)  Use of information and communication 
technology in project management
(v)   Preparation of management information 
systems
Note :  the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 
40% marks for this subject.
12.6.4 Proficiency in the English language 
 (Subject No. 17) (100 marks)
 Scheme of Evaluation: Written Examination
 Content: The following subject areas are suggested 
for the candidate’s reference:
•  Communication Skills
 the candidate should possess the ability to 
function effectively in the following language 
functions.
-  General Greetings and introductions
-  Giving and getting information
- advising, suggesting and expressing 
opinions
- describing Events and Situations
-  t elephone Skills
-  interviewing Skills
- Expression skills
-  Listening and Note taking Skills
• Writing Skills
 the knowledge of the modern formats and 
styles of writing is tested in this area of study.
- internal modes of communication
-  Formal correspondence Skills
-  Writing descriptions/Explanations
-  Grammar

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2301
-  Summary Writing Skills
-  Report Writing Skills
-  meeting minutes/agendas/invitations
•  Comprehension Skills
 candidate’s ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/ written interpretation is expected.
-  Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text
-  Reading and interpretation (verbal/written)
-  Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage
Note : The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
12.7  Second Efficiency Bar examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service:
 
 (appendix 04 of the Service minute of Sri Lanka accountants’Service published in the Gazette extraordinary 
No.1670/33 dated 10.09.2010)
 The officers in Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be eligible 
to sit for this examination. 
 The subjects for the second efficiency bar examination are as follows:-
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 management accountancy 03 hours 18
02 Public Financial management 03 hours 19
03 management and organization 03 hours 20
12.7.1  Management Accountancy (Subject No. 18) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
 candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
 control theory on accounting – Feedback – open and closed. types of ideal standard costs,principles of performance 
standards and their application, revision of standards, learning circles and determination of motivation, analysis 
of variations and sub variations, analysis of significance,presentation and investigation of variances, behavioral 
aspects of control accounting, concepts of budgeting, administration of budgetary control, the budget manual, fixed 
and flexible budgets,master and supplementary budgets, budget centers, management participation, intervention 
and motivation in the preparation of budgets, the budget period and identification of the principal budget factor.
Note :  The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject.
12.7.2  Public Financial Management (Subject No. 19) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
 candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
 Role of the Government accountant.
 Knowledge of Constitutional and Legal framework of public finance Institutional framework, Central government, 
Public corporations, Local Government institutions, co-operative movements. etc. 
 Parliamentary control, Functions of the treasury, ministry of Planning, Estimates committee, auditor General, 
Public accounts committee, consolidated Fund, Problems of Parliamentary control.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2302
 Financial circle, Preparation of Planning programmes, Preparations of budget, approval of funds, accounting, 
reporting, monitoring and auditing. 
 Project evaluation, Service prices and use of statistical data, Payment theory and deciding on the anticipated value.
 Cost benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal effective ratio, project ranking, economic, financial and 
management aspects of project formulation and evaluation, successful submission of projects.
 t echniques of programming, use of network analysis, allocation of resources, problems of transport, deterioration 
of resources due to usage or with the passage of time, replacement of resources which do not deteriorate but 
become useless due to partial usage or due to passage of time, performance budgets, Establishment and use of 
basic methods, measurement of performance, types of measurements, selection of units and measurements, types 
of measurements and analysis of performance.
 Programme Budgeting, programme structure, classifications according to functions, Programme work,Expenditure 
projects and expenditure items, economics and activity related classification. 
 Financial control systems, level of responsibilities, internal control and financial regulations, internal audit, 
performance auditing, management auditing, variance analysis, decisions on providing capital budgets, long term 
planning and it’s importance, forecasting, risk analysis of accuracy and limitations,decision trees, probability 
factors.
 Demand on capital, issues in estimating earnings and effectiveness of capital investments identifyand allocate 
for risk factors when prioritize and standardize projects. Pay back determinants,calculating of accounting rate of 
return, net present value and DCF yields, influence of taxation and incentives, investment appraisal, Project Cost 
control and post audit.
 decisions on capacities , product mix, make or buy, alternative methods of manufacture, shut down problems, 
Pricing policies and contribution theory, influence of customer demand, patterns, elasticityof demand, Marketing 
strategy, techniques of evaluation of performance, profitability criteria and ratios.
 analysis of return on capital, management of Working capital.
 Financial control of government commercial enterprises, budgeting, management reporting, interpretation of 
financial statements and the use of financial ratios.
 Pricing in Public Enterprises :
 accounting plan and its contents, Government reports and Public undertakings.
Note :  The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
12.7.3  Management and Organization (Subject No. 20) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
 candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
 Questions will be set to test the knowledge of the candidate on management and principles of organization, use of 
these principles with regard to the problems and issues in the public sector and the knowledge on new management 
strategies and techniques.
Note :  The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
12.8 Second Efficiency Bar examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service:
 (appendix “d” of the Service minute of Sri Lanka Planning Service published in the Gazette extraordinary  
No : 1670/32 dated 10.09.2010)

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2303
 The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be eligible to sit 
for this examination. 
12.8.1 The second efficiency bar examination shall consist of the following subjects.
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 techniques of development Planning 03 hours 21
02 basic macro Economics. 03 hours 22
03 current international Economic and Political crises and their 
impact on the Sri Lankan Economy 03 hours 23
12.8.2 it is compulsory to answer all the questions in a question paper.
 Syllabus
 I.  Development Planning Techniques (Subject No. 21) (100 marks)
 (i)  SWot  analysis.
 (ii)  Problem t ree.
 (iii)  Logical Framework analysis.
 (IV)  Cost Benefit Analysis.
 (V)  Pay back method.
 (Vi)  Net Present Value.
 (Vii)  internal Rate of Return.
 (Viii)  application of Shadow Price.
Note : The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
II. Basic Macro Economics (Subject No. 22) (100 marks)
 (i)  National accounts.
 (ii)  Rate of Economic Growth.
 (iii)  balanced National Revenue.
 (IV)  Multiplier Effect.
 (V)  Inflation.
 (Vi)  Rate of interest.
 (Vii)  an introduction to Public Fiscal Policy.
 (Viii)  an introduction to Fiscal Policy.
 (iX)  business circle.
Note :  The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
III.  Current International Economic Crises and their impact on Sri Lankan Economy (Subject No. 23) 
 (100 marks)
 current international Economic crises and their impact on Sri Lankan Economy.
 (answers have to be given on topics which have a timely relevance to emerging world economic conditions).
Note :  The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
13.  director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration is the authority appointed strictly for 
conducting this examination. Since issues related to the provisions of the service minutes with regard to this 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2304
examination are not fallen within the scope of Sri Lanka institute of development administration, such matters 
should not be inquired from the said institution. any inquiry concerning the same should be made from the Relevant 
Services Division of the Ministry of Public Administration, Justice Home Affairs, Provincial Councils, and Local 
Government and Labour.
14. the timetable for this examination is as follows :
SR. No. Name of The 
examination Subject Subject 
No. Date Time
01
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
administrative 
Service 
constitutional Law and 
administrative Law 01 -i 30.11.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 01 - ii 30.11.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
criminal Law and Evidence Law 01 - iii 01.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
administration 02- i 01.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
Economics and Sociology 03 07.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
Financial management in the 
public sector and procurement 
process 
04 07.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
02
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service 
Financial Systems 05- i 15.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
administration 02- ii 15.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
03
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service 
Financial Systems 05- ii 22.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
administration 02- iii 22.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
04
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
architects’ Service 
Financial Systems 05- ii 22.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
administration 02- iii 22.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
05
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
accountants’ Service
Government Financial regulations 06 15.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
Law and management 07 15.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
administration 02 - iV 21.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
Report writing and Presenting 
information to management 08 21.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
06
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
Planning Service
Planning concepts, methodology 
and Planning institutions 09 30.11.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
Economic analysis and statistics 10 30.11.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
Project Planning, Implementation 
monitoring and Evaluation 11 01.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
institutional Regulations and 
Public Sector Financial methods 12 01.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
English Language 13 07.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2305
SR. No. Name of The 
examination Subject Subject 
No. Date Time
07
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
administrative 
Service
Economic and Social Policy
(With special reference to Sri 
Lanka)
14 21.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
Process of development 
administration
(With special reference to Sri 
Lanka)
15 21.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
Use of information and 
communication t echnology for 
management
16
date of the practical test to be held by  
shall be informed by the director General 
of Sri Lanka institute of development 
administration after the closing date of 
applications.
Proficiency in the Link Language 
(English) 17 22.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
08
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
accountants’ Service
management accountancy 18 08.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
Public Financial management 19 08.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
management and organization 20 22.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
09
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
Planning Service
t echniques of development 
Planning 21 07.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
basic macro Economics 22 08.12.2024 9.00 a.m. -  12.00 noon
current international Economic 
and Political crises and their 
impact on Sri Lankan Economy
23 08.12.2024 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
15.   15.1   Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination and Second 
Language t est shall be made in the following manner. 
examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted 
1st Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service 
Law
Shall be a barrister or a lawyer at the supreme court 
of Sri Lanka. Shall have obtained a degree in Law 
from a University recognized by the University grants 
commission.
Note 1 :  The exemption for Sociology or Economics in the First Efficiency Bar shall be made applicable to the officers of 
Sri Lanka administrative Service recruited from 01.07.2012 to 23.12.2013 under the Service minute No. 1419/3 
dated 14.11.2005.
15.2  Even though as per the interim provisions 1.5 (b) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, the officers were 
required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination under the provisions of previous service minutes before the effective 
date of (01.07.2012) of the above Service Minute, the officers who are unable to pass the same as at 31.12.2014 
should complete the Efficiency Bar Examination by passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations held 
under the existing service minute which are conforming to the subjects of each Efficiency Bar Examination as per 
the existed service minute. Corresponding subjects are given in the following table.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2306
Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005 New Service Minute No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013
01. Law
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Law
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
02. administration 
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
administration 
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
03. Economics or Sociology
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economics and Sociology
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
04. Public Sector Financial management
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination) 
Public Sector Financial management and procurement 
process
  (First Efficiency Bar Examination)
05. English
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Link (English) Language Proficiency 
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
06. Economic and Social Policy
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economic and Social Policy
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
07. development administration Process
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
development administration Process
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
08. management and organization methods
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Use of information and communication t echnology for 
m anagement
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
16.  issuance of results: the results of all the candidates who have applied/sat for this examination shall be published in 
the web site of the Ministry of Justice Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils Local Government 
and Labour. Publishing of the results in the website of the ministry shall be considered as an issuance of results to the 
candidates, according to the circular Number SP/Sb/1/13 and dated 13.10.2009 of Secretary to H.E. the President on the  
e-documents and e-communication. accordingly, Heads of departments shall include the relevant copies of the results 
sheets of the examination published in the website of the Ministry to the personal files of the officers.  It is not allowed 
to re scrutinize the results of the examination.   
17. any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the ministry of Justice Public administration, Home 
Affairs, Provincial Councils, Local Government and Labour.
     
18.    In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala text shall 
prevail.  
   S. Alokabandara,
   Secretary,   
   ministry of Justice, Public administration,  
   Home Affairs, Provincial Councils, Local  
   Government and Labour,
   independence Square colombo 07. 
Ministry of Justice, Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial councils, Local Government and Labour,
independence Square,
colombo 07.
18
th  of october, 2024.
11 - 04

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2307
IRRIGATION  DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the post of Store keeper in Grade 
III in the Irrigation Department–2024
aPPLicatioNS  are hereby called from qualified citizens 
of Sri Lanka to fill the vacancies of Store Keeper in Grade 
iii in the irrigation department.
2.  (i). calling for applications – applications shall be 
prepared by the candidate in compliance with the 
specimen application form given at the end of this 
Gazette Notification, using both sides of the paper 
of size a4 (21cm x 29cm). 
 (ii). applications shall be prepared using the computer 
as such that heads from 1.0 to 3.0 appear in the first 
page, heads from 4.0 to 6.0 appear in the second 
page and the rest appear in the third page. Relevant 
information shall be filled in candidate’s own hand 
writing. 
 (iii). applications that do not comply with the specimen 
application form and that contain incomplete 
information will be rejected without notice.
 (iv). it would be useful for the candidate to keep a 
photocopy of the application form. Further, when 
preparing the specimen application form, the name 
of the examination mentioned in the heading of the 
application form must be indicated in English, in 
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala medium applications, 
and in addition to t amil in t amil medium 
applications.
 (v). applications completed in the language medium in 
which the applicant intend to sit for the examination 
shall be sent via registered post on or before 
30.11.2024 to reach the address “director General of 
irrigation, irrigation department, 230, bauddhaloka 
mawatha, colombo 07.”
 (vi). When sending the application, it is mandatory to 
pay an amount of Rs. 600/= as examination fees. it 
must be paid to be credited to the account bearing 
account No: 7042385 maintained under the Name of 
director General of irrigation at t aprobane branch 
of bank of ceylon, at Hospital road,  colombo 01, 
and the receipt shall be pasted on the application.
 (vii). When sending the application, the words 
“Recruitment for the post of Store Keeper-2024” 
shall be mentioned in the top left hand corner of the 
envelope in which the application is enclosed.
 (viii). applicants who are in Public Service/ Provincial 
Public Service shall send their applications through 
the Head of the department on or before the 
prescribed date.
 (ix). Receipt of the application will not be notified. 
complaints regarding applications or other related 
document lost or delayed in the post will not be 
entertained.
 (x). applications that do not comply with the relevant 
specimen form, that are incomplete and that are late 
will be rejected without notice.
3. identity - Each candidate shall be required to prove his/
her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor. For this purpose, any of the below documents 
will be accepted.
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons, 
or
 (ii) Valid passport,
or
 (iii) Valid driving license. 
4. False information- When filling the application, very 
carefully accurate information must be provided. if any 
candidate is found to be unqualified, his/ her candidature 
shall be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after 
the examination. 
5. if any information furnished by a candidate is found to 
be false at any stage, he/she shall be dismissed from the 
Public Service.
6. (i). monthly salary scale applicable for this post - as 
per the Public administration circular 03/2016 and 
(mN-01-2016) salary group, Rs. 27,140- 300x10- 
350x11- 495x10- 660x10- Rs. 45,540/= and salary 
shall be paid as per the provisions of the said 
circular.  
 (ii). Upon appointing to the post, the Efficiency Bar 
Examination shall be passed before reaching the 
fourth salary step. 
7.  (i). age limit - the age shall be not less than 18 years 
and not more than 30 years as at the closing date of 
applications.
 (ii). For an officer in the public service, the age shall 
be not more than 45 years as at the closing date of 
applications.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2308
8. Conditions of employment - 
 (i). this post is permanent and pensionable. Selected 
applicants shall make contributions to the Widow’s/
Widower’s and orphans Pensions Scheme, and you 
shall be subjected to the policy decisions taken by 
the Government in this regard, in future.
 (ii). This appointment is subjected to a probationary 
period of three (03) years. also, provisions of 
the Procedural Rules No. 2310/29 issued by the 
Public Service commission on 14.12.2022 shall be 
applicable.
 (iii). as per the Public administration circular  
No. 7/2007 and circulars incidental thereto, the 
language proficiency of applicable level shall be 
obtained within the prescribed period.
 (iv). Keeping in charge and the proper issuance of the 
general offices storage items and machineries, 
engineering materials relevant to the construction 
worksites and projects of the department are the 
duties applicable to this post.
 (v). as a public servant you shall be bound to serve in 
anywhere in the island. 
9. Educational and other qualifications:-
 (i).  Educational qualifications:
(a) Shall have passed the G.c.E (o/L) Examination 
in six subjects within one sitting , with credit 
passes for Sinhala/ t amil/ English language, 
Mathematics and two other subjects. 
And
(b) Shall have passed at least one subject at the G.C.E 
(a/L) Examination (except for the common 
General t est) 
 (ii). Physical fitness:-
Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve and to 
perform duties of the post in any part of Sri Lanka.
  (iii). Other:
(a) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(b) Shall be of excellent moral character;
(c) it will be accepted as all the requisite 
qualifications for this post have been completed, 
only if the applicant has completed the relevant 
qualifications and the prescribed age limit in 
every aspect as at the closing date of applications.
(d) In addition to the qualifications in above 9(i)(a)(b), 
the successful completion of the three (03) 
months training on Store Keeping conducted 
by the irrigation t raining institute- Galgamuwa 
during the probation period is a qualification 
required to be confirmed in the post.
10. originals of the following documents shall be kept 
ready by the applicants for submission as required. 
i. Birth Certificate;
ii. Educational Certificates;
iii. 2 Certifications of Character obtained within 
06 months upon informing the necessity.
 
11. method of selection for the appointment - this open 
competitive examination for recruitment is a written 
test conducted only in Sinhala and t amil media. the 
language medium applied for shall not be allowed to 
change subsequently. From candidates who passed 
the examination, selections will be done according to 
the order in which they obtained highest marks. (it is 
mandatory that all the qualifications mentioned in this 
notification shall be fulfilled).
this examination will be held only in colombo in the 
year 2024.
12. method of Selection-
Written test 
Question paper  Marks  Pass  Duration 
  marks
intelligence test 100 40  01 hour
(intelligence t est - consist of a questionnaire to 
determine the logical thinking, analytical thinking power 
and the ability of decision making of the candidate.) 
13.  (i). appearing for the examination - admission cards 
for the examination shall be issued so as to receive 
a week before the examination. No applicant will 
be allowed to sit for the examination without 
an admission card. applicants who sit for the 
examination shall produce their admission card in 
which their signature is attested to the supervisor. 
 (ii). A notification will be published under the 
Downloads-Exam in the website www.irrigation.
gov.lk immediately after the issuance of admission 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2309
cards. if the admission card is not received even 
after two or three days of such a notification, it 
must be informed to the irrigation department. it 
would be advisable to notify with a request letter 
along with certified photocopies of the application 
and the receipt of payment, receipt of registration 
kept with you, and a fax number for the admission 
card to be sent if residing outside of colombo. 
14. the signature of the applicant shall have been attested 
by a Principal of a Government school, a Justice of 
Peace, a commissioner for oaths, a Notary Public, or 
an Officer holding a post in staff grade in Public Service.
15. Candidates are subjected to all the rules and regulations 
imposed regarding the examinations. His/her candida -
ture will be dismissed upon violations of the said rules 
and regulations.
16. the director General of irrigation reserves the 
authority on the final decision regarding conducting 
the examination, filling vacancies, not filling vacancies 
or filling a certain number of vacancies and all other 
matters.
Note - in case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, 
kindly note that, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 Eng. Ajith Gunasekara,
 director General of irrigation.
on 10.04.2024,
irrigation department, 
colombo 07.
(For office use only)
Specime n A pplication
The Open C ompetitive E xamination for the Recruitment to the Post of Store keeper (Grade III) in the 
Irrigation Department – 2024
Language medium of examination:
Sinhala  - 1 
tamil  - 2 
1.0 1.1 Name o f the applicant with initials :
………………………………………………………………………………. 
(in English capital Letters)   
1.2 Name of the applicant with initials: 
………………………………………………………………………………. 
(in Sinhala/tamil)
1.3 Name denoted by initials: 
…………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
(in English capital Letters)
1.4 Name denoted by initials: 
……………………………………………………………………………………………. 
1.5
1.6
(in Sinhala/tamil)
National Identity card N o .:
Sex
(indicate the relevant n umber i n  t he cage) 
Fem ale  -  1 
male  - 2 
2.0 2.1 Perma nent address :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
(in English capital Letters)
2.2 Permanent address: 
……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
(in Sinhala/tamil)
2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent:
i. in Sinhala/ tamil: …………………………………………………………………… 
ii. in English capital Letters :…………………………………………………………… 
2.4 telephone No. : Personal ……………………………………………………………………  
3.0 3 .1 marital status
Unmarried   - 1 married - 2 
3 .2 date of  birth:
date: month: year: 
3 .3 age as at cl osing date of applications:
years :    months : days : 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2310
(For office use only)
Specime n A pplication
The Open C ompetitive E xamination for the Recruitment to the Post of Store keeper (Grade III) in the 
Irrigation Department – 2024
Language medium of examination:
Sinhala  - 1 
tamil  - 2 
1.0 1.1 Name o f the applicant with initials :
………………………………………………………………………………. 
(in English capital Letters)   
1.2 Name of the applicant with initials: 
………………………………………………………………………………. 
(in Sinhala/tamil)
1.3 Name denoted by initials: 
…………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
(in English capital Letters)
1.4 Name denoted by initials: 
……………………………………………………………………………………………. 
1.5
1.6
(in Sinhala/tamil)
National Identity card N o .:
Sex
(indicate the relevant n umber i n  t he cage) 
Fem ale  -  1 
male  - 2 
2.0 2.1 Perma nent address :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
(in English capital Letters)
2.2 Permanent address: 
……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
(in Sinhala/tamil)
2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent:
i. in Sinhala/ tamil: …………………………………………………………………… 
ii. in English capital Letters :…………………………………………………………… 
2.4 telephone No. : Personal ……………………………………………………………………  
3.0 3 .1 marital status
Unmarried   - 1 married - 2 
3 .2 date of  birth:
date: month: year: 
3 .3 age as at cl osing date of applications:
years :    months : days : 
3 .4 ar e you Sri Lankan by birth? or by Registration?
………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
4.1 Particulars  o f  G.c.E. (ordinary L evel) examin ation :
i. y ear and the month of the examination:  year: ……………… month: ……………….
ii. admission N o .:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 Particulars of G.c.E. (advanced Level) examination:
i. year and the month of the examination: year: ……………… month: ……………….
ii. admission N o .:
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
4.3 additional Educational Qualifications: 
…………………………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………………………………. 
5.0 Paste the receipt of payment here.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2311
3 .4 ar e you Sri Lankan by birth? or by Registration?
………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
4.1 Particulars  o f  G.c.E. (ordinary L evel) examin ation :
i. y ear and the month of the examination:  year: ……………… month: ……………….
ii. admission N o .:
4.2 Particulars of G.c.E. (advanced Level) examination:
i. year and the month of the examination: year: ……………… month: ……………….
ii. admission N o .:
4.3 additional Educational Qualifications: 
…………………………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………………………………. 
5.0 Paste the receipt of payment here.
6.0 Have you ever been the convict for any complain at a court?
(mark the relevant cage with “ √”)
yes                                   No  
if yes, provide the particulars on which court, the offense and the penalty imposed.
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
7.0 declaration o f  t he applicant:
(a) i do hereby respectfully declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge. i agree to bear any loss incu rred due to not completing any information of the
application and/or completing incorrectly. Further, i declare that all the sections of this application ar e
completed correctly.
(b) i agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed on conducting the examination and i agree to accept
a decision taken to dismiss my candidature for the examination if it is found out that i am unqualified under
these conditio ns prior to the examination or after the examination.
(c) i am also aware that if this declaration is found to be false i shall become disqualified prior to the
appointment, and liable to be dismissed from the service even after receiving the appointment.
(d) i w ill not change any of the information furnished here later on .
date: ………………………………………………..
………………………………………………
Signature of the applicant
8.0 attestation of the applicant’s signature
i hereby certify that mr./mrs ./m iss  …………………………………………………………………… who 
submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed his /her signature in my presence 
on ………………………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………….. 
Signature of the attester and the official seal
date: …………………………………………………………………….. 
Name of the attester : ……………………………………………………
designation : ……………………………………………………………….
address: …………………………………………………………………….

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2312
9.0 certificate of the Head of the department
(only for the applicants who are currently in Public Service )
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ……… …………………………………………………………… is an 
officer serving in the ………………………………………………………….. …………………. service in 
the post of ……………………………………………………………… and the information he/she has 
furnished above is c orrect. Further it is informed that he/she can/cannot be released from the service of 
………………………… ………………….. if he/she is selected for this post.
………………………………………………………………,
Signature of the Head of the department and the official seal .
date: ……………………………
6.0 Have you ever been the convict for any complain at a court?
(mark the relevant cage with “ √”)
yes                                   No  
if yes, provide the particulars on which court, the offense and the penalty imposed.
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
7.0 declaration o f  t he applicant:
(a) i do hereby respectfully declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge. i agree to bear any loss incu rred due to not completing any information of the
application and/or completing incorrectly. Further, i declare that all the sections of this application ar e
completed correctly.
(b) i agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed on conducting the examination and i agree to accept
a decision taken to dismiss my candidature for the examination if it is found out that i am unqualified under
these conditio ns prior to the examination or after the examination.
(c) i am also aware that if this declaration is found to be false i shall become disqualified prior to the
appointment, and liable to be dismissed from the service even after receiving the appointment.
(d) i w ill not change any of the information furnished here later on .
date: ………………………………………………..
………………………………………………
Signature of the applicant
8.0 attestation of the applicant’s signature
i hereby certify that mr./mrs ./m iss  …………………………………………………………………… who 
submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed his /her signature in my presence 
on ………………………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………….. 
Signature of the attester and the official seal
date: …………………………………………………………………….. 
Name of the attester : ……………………………………………………
designation : ……………………………………………………………….
address: …………………………………………………………………….
11-33
INSTITuTE   Of  TEChNOLOGy  uNIvERSITy  Of  mORATuWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology Course, 2024/2025
aPPLicatioNS  are invited from eligible candidates for admission to the National diploma in technology. 3-year fulltime 
course conducted by the institute of technology, University of moratuwa. the course will be conducted in the Institute of 
Technology, university of moratuwa at Diyagama, homagama.
1. General:
the National diploma in technology course consists of two years of academic study and one year of industrial 
Training and is conducted in English Medium. The Course is offered in the following fields of study :

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2313
a. maritime studies Courses (Set 1) b.  Other fields of Courses (Set 2)
i.  marine Engineering t echnology i.      chemical Engineering t echnology
ii. Nautical Studies ii.    civil Engineering t echnology
iii.    Electrical Engineering t echnology
iv.    Electronic & t elecommunication 
Engineering t echnology
v.     information t echnology
vi.    mechanical Engineering t echnology
vii.   Polymer t echnology 
viii. t extile & clothing  t echnology
2. Eligibility
2.1  Age :
(a) applicants should be below 24 years of age on 31.12.2023.
(b) applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2023 will be given preference for admission to the marine 
Engineering t echnology and Nautical Studies courses. a  Special medical test & interview would also be 
conducted for selection of students to marine Engineering and Nautical Studies courses.
(c) those who are fulltime registered students of any University under the UGc (except the open University 
of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational institute under the ministry of Higher Education are not eligible to 
apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should have obtained passes in any three (03) of the following subjects:
i. Physics
ii. chemistry
iii. combined mathematics
iv. advanced mathematics
at one and the same sitting of a G.c.E. (a/L) Examination conducted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2021 or 2022 or 2023.
(b) applicants who are applying for "marine Engineering t echnology" and "Nautical Studies" (Set 1) 
courses should have obtained a credit Pass (c) for English Language at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1  Admission to the Course :
the Selection of students for admission will be based on the performance at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination and the 
aptitude test to be conducted by the institute of t echnology, University of moratuwa.
From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be done in the merit order of G.c.E. (a/L) results, i.e. in the 
order of Z-Scores. in the Selections, 40% merit and 60% district quota will be applied.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2314
3.2  Field of Study :
Aptitude test marks together with the applicant's order of preference for the field of study as indicated in the field 
preference will be considered in the allocation of the field of study.
4. Application Procedure :
  4.1  Application Form:
(i)  Applicants should be first submit their applications online through the online application form uploaded 
in the following web address.
http://www.itum.mrt.ac.lk
 (ii)  after submitting the online application, applicants are required to download the auto generated printable 
copy of the online application.
 (iii)  The content of the downloaded hard copy of the online application form has to be certified as indicated 
in the application. (See cages 3 & 5 in the form of application).
 (iv)  The hard copy of the duly filled application form should be forwarded under Registered Post marked 
"NDT Admission 2024/2025" on the top left hand corner of the envelope and addressed to the 
Assistant Registrar, Academic & Student Affairs Division, Institute of Technology, University of 
moratuwa, Diyagama, homagama.
 (v)  online application should be submitted before the closing date and also the hard copy of the application 
should reach the above address on or before closing date of the applications.
 (vi)  a  self-addressed envelope (9"x4") with Rs. 110/= of Stamps should be enclosed along with the hard 
copy of the application.
Important:
Please note that, every applicant is required to submit both online application and the hard copy 
of the online application before the due date. Applicants who failed to submit online application 
and the hard copy of the application will not be taken in to consideration for further processing 
and incomplete applications will be rejected without any notice.
 4.2 field Preference :
 (i) there are two SEtS of fields.
 (ii) applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies (SEt 1) or Other fields (SEt 2) or Both sets of fields, 
The Preference must be indicated if candidate applies to both sets of fields.
 (iii) SEt 1 – insert order of preference as 1 for First preference and 2 for Second preference. this should be 
completed only by the candidates who are applying for Maritime Studies.
 (iv) SEt 2 – insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. "1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next, 
and so on "8" for the least preferred.
 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2315
 i.  Application Fee :
  a  receipt of payment in favour of "Institute of Technology, university of moratuwa, A/C No. 83062337 
of bank of Ceylon, homagama branch" to the value of Rs. 1,000.00 (Rupees one thousand) application 
fee for Set i or Set ii and Rs. 1,200.00 (Rupees one thousand two Hundred) application fee for both Set 
i and Set ii, should accompany each application. this application fee is non-refundable.
ii.  Scanned image of the Payment slip should be submitted with the online application and the copy of the 
original payment slip should be submitted along with the hard copy of the application form.
iii . Closing Date :
  the closing date of applications is 02.12.2024.
6. Aptitude Test and English language Proficiency Test:
applicants, short-listed according to the G.c.E. (a/L) performance in merit & district Quota will be called for an 
aptitude test and English language proficiency test that will be conducted by the Institute of Technology, University 
of moratuwa.
7. Registration :
 (i) candidates selected for admission will be required to produce the Originals of the following certificates on 
the date of registration.
• G.C.E. (A/L) Certificate
• Certificate indicating G.C.E. (A/L) Z-Score
• School Leaving Certificate
• Birth Certificate
• Affidavit in support of any changes in name appearing in different documents/ certificates.
6. Very Important :
 (i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in Technology Course will not be eligible for 
admission to any other course in this Institute or in any other University in Sri Lanka (Except Open 
university of Sri Lanka) or in any other higher Educational Institute under the ministry of higher 
Education during the tenure of the course.
 (ii) students who have already registered in this Institute or any other University in Sri Lanka (Except 
Open university of Sri Lanka) or in any other higher Educational Institute is not be eligible for 
applying.
 (iii) All the particulars in the application should be true and accurate. If the particulars in the Application 
are found to be false or inaccurate, the applicant will be discontinued from the course at any time.
director,
institute of technology University of moratuwa.
11-52

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2024
2316
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtmENt  oF   GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2024
 NOvEmbER  01.11.2024 Friday — 18.10.2024 Friday 12 noon
  08.11.2024 Friday –– 25.10.2024 Friday 12 noon
  14.11.2024 thursday –– 01.11.2024 Friday 12 noon
  22.11.2024 Friday –– 08.11.2024 Friday 12 noon
  29.11.2024 Friday –– 14.11.2024 thursday 12 noon
 DECEmbER  06.12.2024 Friday — 22.11.2024 Friday 12 noon
  13.12.2024 Friday –– 29.11.2024 Friday 12 noon
  20.12.2024 Friday –– 06.12.2024 Friday 12 noon
  27.12.2024 Friday –– 13.12.2024 Friday 12 noon
 2025
 JANuAR y 03.01.2025 Friday — 20.12.2024 Friday 12 noon
  10.01.2025 Friday –– 27.12.2024 Friday 12 noon
  17.01.2025 Friday –– 03.01.2025 Friday 12 noon
  24.01.2025 Friday –– 10.01.2025 Friday 12 noon
  31.01.2025 Friday –– 17.01.2025 Friday 12 noon
    
  
 Gangani Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2024.