

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF S RI  LANKA – 10.10.2019
1A
UV A   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Notification
I, Don Arthur Chamara Sampath Dassanayake, the Chief Minister of the Uva Province and the Minister in charge of the subject
of Local Government, in accordance with the powers vested in me under the Section 223 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15
of 1987 to be read with the Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989, do hereby enact
the following directions.
D
ON ARTHUR CHAMARA SAMPATH DASSANAY AKE,
Chief Minister of the Uva Province and the
Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Education, Local Government, Land,
Power and Energy, Construction and
Rural Infrastructure.
Uva Province.
In the office of the Chief Minister of the Uva Province,
On the 04th of September, 2019.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG4684 – 18 (10/2019)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
wxl 2144$53 – 2019 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 10 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2019'10'10
No. 2144/53 – THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2019


<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF S RI  LANKA – 10.10.2019
DIRECTIONS
01. In any case where a new Pradeshiya Sabha is constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 from any
part of an administrative area under the control of any local authority established under the same Act, the said new
Pradeshiya Sabha shall be the successor of such local authority for all purposes relating to such administrative area
from the date of the constitution of such new Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. For any Pradeshiya Sabha referred to in Section I, with effect from the date on which such Pradeshiya Sabha is
constituted, there shall be deemed to be transferred to that Pradeshiya Sabha,
(a) all such property, other than the funds, of the local authority referred to in the Section I, as may be situated
within such area ;
(b) all the rights, powers, duties, debts, liabilities and obligations of that local authority, in so far as they relate to
such area within the relevant area.
03. Except in so far as provision is otherwise made by the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, all references in any enactment, or in
any order, rule, regulation, or by-law made thereunder, or in any document or instrument executed or issued in
pursuance thereof, to any class of local authorities, or to any particular local authority, shall be construed as though
they were references to the Pradeshiya Sabhas constituted under this Pradeshiya Sabha Act, or in the case of a
reference to any particular local authority, to the Pradeshiya Sabha which is the successor to such local authority.
04. All such proclamations, orders, notifications, rules, regulations, and by-laws of or affecting any local authority
whose powers and duties are transferred under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act itself to a new Pradeshiya Sabha, as are
in force at the time of the transfer, shall continue in force, so far as they relate to or are in pusuance of the powers and
duties transferred, or so far as they relate to any matter or thing within the area for which the Pradeshiya Sabha is
constituted.
05. Any action or proceeding, or any cause of action or proceeding existing at the date of the constitution of any
Pradeshiya Sabha in the interest of or against any local authority in relation to any powers, duties, liabilities, or
property by the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 transferred to any Pradeshiya Sabha, shall not be in any wise
prejudicially affected by reason of the constitution of new Pradeshiya Sabha, but may be continued, prosecuted
and enforced by or against such Pradeshiya Sabha as successor of the local authority in like manner as it would
have been continued, prosecuted and enforced by the local authority as if such Pradeshiya Sabha had not been
constituted.
06. All contract, deeds, bonds, agreements, notices, or other instruments entered into, issued, or made by any local
authority and subsisting at the time of the constitution of a new Pradeshiya Sabha for the administrative area of
such local authority, and affecting any such powers, duties, liabilities, obligations, or property as are by the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act transferred, shall be of as full force and effect against or in favour of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
and may be enforced or acted upon as fully and effectually as if the said Pradeshiya Sabha had been a party to or had
made or issued such contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, notices or others instruments.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF S RI  LANKA – 10.10.2019
3A
07. All such rates and taxes imposed by any local authority to which any Pradeshiya Sabha is the successor as may be
due at the date of the constitution of the Pradeshiya Sabha, may be enforced and recovered in the same manner as
the rates and taxes imposed by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
08. All assessments made or adopted by the local authority for the purpose of any rate referred to in Section 7 shall
continue in force until revised by the new Pradeshiya Sabha in the manner provided by this Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
09. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these Directions, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
10 - 905
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA