

<!-- page 1 -->

217 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.11.11
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
wxl 1"993 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2016.11.11
No. 1,993 – FRIDAY NOVEMBER 11, 2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... 218
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd December, 2016, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th
November 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
Government Printer (Acting ).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
15th September, 2016
This Gazette can be downloaded from www. documents. gov.lk
217
Note.— (i) Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhlakthi Jana Sewa Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 22, 2016
(ii) Mahipala Herath Janasahana Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Demcoratic Socialist Republic  of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2016
(iii) Saravanapavan Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of September 23, 2016
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

218  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.11.11
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
Miscellaneous Notices
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE
PANASOMA  FRIENDSHIP  FOUNDATION
I, Hector Appuhamy, Being the member of Parliament do hereby
give notice under Standing Order No. 48 of the Standing Order of the
Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I
Propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to
incorporate the Panasoma Friendship Foundation.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Foundation which has
the following general objects :-
(1) Propaganda of new technologies in Japan and production of
compost fertilizer - to develop the agriculture programs in
Sri Lanka by providing new methods and systems with latest
agro equipment to farmers, whilst enhancing the interest of
young farmers to make use of their efficiencies for the sake of
mother country Sri Lanka.
(2) Providing facilities to agriculture teachers to obtain  a short
term training in japan and make them to initate up with new
agro units in their schools with the use of  new equipment;
supposed to be supplied by this program.
(3) To encourage and provide assistance to parties in interest to
develop Optional productions such as Maize and other
verities of grains and at the same time to introduce the
availability of market.
(4) To introduce japanese Technology for enhancement of milk
production in quality and quantity and to increase the
production of carbonic materials for animal food production.
(5) Donations to be implemented on welfare measures to assist
school students especially in transportion at difficult areas
and to provide substantial improvement of Montessori
Education.
(6) To help peasants when in need at their difficult times to
receive various international donations as per the  advises
given by the Government.
Etc.
H
ECTOR APPUHAMY,
Member of Parliament,
Puttamlam District.
11-387
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  COMMUNITY
SERVICE  MOVEMENT
I, M. S. Thowfeek do hereby give notice under standing Order
No.48 (1) of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill
entitled" An Act to incorporate the Community Service
Movement.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Movement which
has the following general objects :-
1. To improve the education of children
2. To empower the children with disabilities
3. To help poor people for self employment.
ect.
M. S. T
HOWFEEK,
Member of Parliament
National List.
11-472
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DARUL ULOOM
SABEELUS SALAM ARABIC COLLEGE
I, M. S. Thowfeek do hereby give notice under standing Order
No. 48 (1) of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill
entitled " An Act to incorporate the Darul Uloom Sabeelus
Salam Arabic College.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said. college which has
the following general Objects :-
(1) To produce Islamic Theologists to lead the Islamic
Society
(2) To improve the education of children
(3) To promote Peace among communities.
etc.
M.S. T
HOWFEEK,
Member of Parliament
National List.
11-473

<!-- page 3 -->

219 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.11.11
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
NOTICE OF WINDING - UP
In the Provincial High Court of the Western Province exercising
Civil jurisdiction holden in Colombo.
Case No. : HC(civil) 52/2016 CO
Nature : Liquidation
In the matter of Tri -Star Apparel Export (Private) Limited having
its registered office at No. 30, Maligawa Road, Rathmalana.
And
in the matter of an application for winding - up under and in
terms of section 270(e) and 270(f) of Companies Act, No. 07 of
2007.
McOcean Logistics Limited
No.123, Baddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 04
Petitioner
It is hereby notified that a Petition has been  submitted to
the Provincial High Court of the Western Province exercising
civil jurisdiction holden in Colombo on the 22nd of September
2016 by the said Petitioner for winding -up of Tri-Star Apparel
Exports (Private) Limited having its registered office at No.30,
Maligawa Road, Rathmalana and the Court has directed that
the said Petition be taken up for hearing on 17th of January
2017 and that any creditor contributory of the said Company
willing to support or oppose the making of an order on the
said Petition can appear at the  said hearing in person or by
his or her attorney and a copy  of the said petition will be made
available to any creditor or contribution of the said company
who require the same by the undersigned upon payment of
the prescribed fees.
Signed
Medavini Thilakarathne
5931/A Ihala  Biyanwila, Kadawatha
Note.—Whosover willing to appear at the time of hearing
of the said Petition should  inform the aforesaid Ms. Medavini
Thilakarathne in writing to this effect and delivered by hand
or by Registered Post. The notice should contain the name
and address of the informer and signed by the person or the
Company of his or their attorney (if any) should be delivered
before 6.00 p.m. on 16th January 2017. If send by Registered
Post it should reach the aforesaid Attorney well in advance.
Attorney-at-Law
of the Petitioner.
11-674
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.