

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
wxl 2364$38 – 2023 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks bßod – 2023'12'31
No. 2364/38 – SUNDAY, DECEMBER  31, 2023
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG6603 – 07 (12/2023)
Provincial Council Notiﬁ cation
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
North Western Provincial Road Passenger Transport Service Statute No. 07 of 2018 of the
North Western Provincial Council
THE above mentioned Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 02nd October, 2018 and 
assented by the Governor of the North Western Province on 16th November, 2023 is hereby published for the information 
of the public. 
 N.M. J. Fൾඋඇൺඇൽඈ
 Secretary,
 Provincial Council,
 North Western Province.
 
Council Oﬃ  ce,
North Werstern Provincial Council,
Kurunegala.
28th December, 2023.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 2A
Statute of Road Passenger Transport Service of the
North Western Province No. 07 of 2018
 
A statute to provide and regularize passenger transport services through the roads by motor vehicles within  
North Western Province and to provide and regularize road transport services and the provincial transport 
services linked with North Western Province to the extent to ap plicable to North Western Province, to 
establish North Western Province Road Passenger Transport Servi ce Authority, to make provisions for 
matters connected there with or incidental thereto and to repeal the Road Passenger Transport Service Statute 
No.04 of 1955 of North Western Province.
Provisions of Motor Traﬃ  c Act (Chapter 203) No.14 of 1951 amended from time to time and Provisions of 
Private Bus Service Act No. 44 of 1983 amended from time to time will be inconsistent only to the extent for 
which provisions are made in this Statute.
Be it enacted by North Western Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 01. This statute shall be cited as the Statute of Road Passeng er Transport Service No. 07 of 2018 of the 
North Western Provincial Council.
 02. This Statute may take eﬀ  ect from a date which is approved by the Governor of North Wes tern 
Province. 
 03. The objectives of this Statute are as follows:                                               
   
 (1) Repealing the North Western Provincial Road Passenger Serv ice   Statute No. 04 of 1995.
 (2) Providing eﬃ   cient and optimal transport service for passengers, school ch ildren, oﬃ  ce 
workers, and factory workers by motor vehicles across roads in the North Western Province and 
regularizing and maintaining passenger transport service.
 (3) Providing and regularizing provincial transport services c onnected with the   North Western 
Province to the extent that applicable to North Western Province.
 (4) Introducing new projects for the development of passengers  as well as investors with a view to 
enhance the quality of the passenger transport service within the North Western Province.
 (5) Establishment of a Road Passenger Transport Service Author ity in the Provincial Council of   
North Western Province
 
PART I
Establishment of the Road Passenger Transport Service Authority in the
Provincial Council of North Western Province
 04. (1) "North Western Provincial Council Road Passenger Trans port Service Authority" hereinafter 
referred to as the "Authority" is hereby established.
  (2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it by the abo ve Sub Section 4 (1) be a body corporate 
and shall have a perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in that name.
Long Title
Short Title
Eﬀ ective Date
Objectives of the 
Statute
Establishment of
the Road
Passenger
Authority

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 3A
 05. (1) The Board of Directors of the Authority shall consist of nine members as follows:
  (2) The members appointed ex oﬃ   cio –
 ( a) A Senior Executive Oﬃ  cer nominated by the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of t he 
subject of North Western Provincial Road Passenger Transport.
 ( b) A senior Executive Oﬃ   cer nominated by the Chief Secretary to the North Western 
Province.
 ( c) Senior Deputy Inspector General of the Police of North Western Province or an oﬃ  cer not 
lower than the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police nominated by him.
 ( d) North Western Provincial Director of Education or a senior oﬃ  cer nominated by him.
 ( e)  Commissioner of Local Government in the North Western Provin ce or a senior oﬃ  cer 
nominated by him.    
 (3) Members appointed by the Minister –
 ( a) Four persons who have qualiﬁ  ed in one or more subject ﬁ  elds of Transport, Law, 
Management, Commerce, Administration or Civil Engineering and w ho have a good 
experience and proﬁ ciency in those subjects to the satisfaction of the Minister in charge of 
the subject.
 (4) All the members of the Board of Directors of the Authority  shall be formally appointed by the 
Minister through letters issued under the signature of the Minister.
 06. (1) From among the above members appointed under the afore said Sub Section 3 (a), one member 
shall be appointed as the Chairman of the Authority by the Minister.
  (2) The tenure of oﬃ   ce of the chairman shall be the term of oﬃ  ce of the membership of the Director 
board of the Authority or as far as the Minister's preference.
  (3) In case the Chairman is unable to perform the duties of h is oﬃ  ce due to a certain reason speciﬁ ed 
in Section 11, the Minister may appoint another member to act as the chairman.
 07. If any person –
 (1) is a Member of Parliament, a Member of any Provincial Coun cil, or a Member of a Local 
Government Institute,
 (2) is not a citizen of Sri Lanka and not a permanent resident  within the North Western Province,
 (3) has been determined as a person with a mental disorder by a recognized medical board or is 
totally disabled,
 (4) has been subject to a criminal penalty by any court of law  in Sri Lanka for a period more than 
ten (10) years,
Board of Directors     
of the Authority
Chairman of the
Authority
Disqualiﬁ cations
for being  a
member of the
Director Board
of the Authority

<!-- page 4 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 4A
 (5) Is disqualiﬁ  ed to be appointed for the Board of Directors under Section 15 of this Statute,
  Such a person shall be disqualiﬁ  ed for being appointed as a member of the Board of Directors  
of the Authority and from continuing to act if so appointed. 
08.  (1) The Minister shall satisfy himself before the appointm ent of an individual as a Member of the 
Board of Directors to the eﬀ ect that he has no any ﬁ nancial involvement or any other connection 
with the aﬀ airs of the Authority which could lead to any adverse eﬀ ect to the functions of the 
Authority when he continues as a member of the director board.
 
  (2) The Minister shall ensure from time to time to the eﬀ  ect that no such involvement has been 
maintained by a person so appointed as a Member of the Board of Directors.
  (3) Any person appointed as a Member for the Board of Directo rs by the Minister shall provide any 
information deemed as necessary for the purpose of this Statute as required in any case by the 
Minister.
  (4) A member who is directly or indirectly interested in an a greement made or to be made by the 
Authority shall reveal the nature of his relationship in a meet ing held by the Authority and it 
should be written in the recorded in the minutes of the meeting s and the Member shall not 
be participated in any conference or any decision made by the A uthority with regard to such 
agreement.
 9. (1) The Chairman of the Authority shall preside at every me eting of the Board of Directors. In the 
absence of the Chairman at any meeting a Member shall be elected as the Chairman from among 
the Members present at the meeting.
  (2) The quorum of the meeting of the Board of Directors of th e Authority shall be three members.
  (3) Every matter to be considered by the Authority shall be d ecided at a meeting held for the Board 
of Directors of the Authority and those matters shall be approved by majority of members of the 
Board of Directors who cast the votes.
  (4) In case equal number of votes has been received for and a gainst in respect of a certain proposal, 
a casting vote shall be entitled to the Chairman.
  (5) If there any fault has been revealed after a Member was s elected for the Board of Directors of 
the Authority and he was found to be disqualiﬁ ed for the oﬃ  ce, all the transactions done in the 
meeting of the Board of Directors he participated in shall be eﬀ ective considering the person was 
qualiﬁ ed.
  (6) No act or proceeding of the meeting of the Board of Direc tors shall be deemed as invalid by 
reason only of having any vacancy of members of Board of Directors of the Authority.
  (7) The Board of Directors shall meet at least once a month. In case the Chairman of the Authority 
deems that a meeting should be convened or in case three members of the Board of Directors 
Financial
Connections and
relationships the
members
Meetings of
Board
Directors

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 5A
have  made a written request to hold a meeting, the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall 
convene a meeting.  
  (8) Rules could be made by the Board of Directors pertaining to the functional directive in respect 
of the meetings and the proceedings of such meetings of the Board of  Directors subject to the 
provisions of this statute.
 10. (1) Every member of the Board of Directors of the Authorit y shall hold their oﬃ  ce for a period of 
three years unless any of them earlier resigns or is removed from the oﬃ  ce by the Minister under 
Sections 12 or 13 of this Statute.
  (2) Provided that, if a new member is appointed to ﬁ  ll any vacancy, he shall hold the oﬃ  ce for the 
remaining period of the term of oﬃ  ce of his predecessor.
 11. Where any member is unable to perform the duties in his oﬃ   ce by reason of illness or any other 
reason or absence from Sri Lanka temporarily, the Minister may appoint a person to act in his place 
for that period subjected to the provisions 5 and 7 of this Statute.
 12. Any member of the Board of Directors at any time may resig n from his oﬃ  ce upon a written request 
made to the Minister.
 13. (1) Minister may at any time remove any member of the Boar d of Directors appointed by the 
Minister under Sub-section 5 (4) of this Statute from his oﬃ  ce without adducing  the reasons.
  (2) If a member of the Board of Directors ex oﬃ   cio appointed under the aforesaid Sub-sections 5 
(2) (a) to (e) in this Statute is removed, such oﬃ  cer may be removed from oﬃ  ce by the Minister 
with the concurrence of the Head of the Institute by whom the member was recommended.
 14 . If any member of the Board of Directors is absent from th ree consecutive meetings of the Board of 
Directors  without informing the Chairman the membership of the member of the Board of Directors 
shall be abolished.
 15. Any member vacating his oﬃ   ce upon the expiration of his term of oﬃ  ce or a member who has been 
resigned from his oﬃ  ce during the term of his oﬃ  ce may be re-appointed. Provided that a member 
removed by the Minister under Section 13 or a member whose memb ership was abolished under 
Section14 of this Statute shall not be eligible for re-appointment.
 16. Remuneration and allowances speciﬁ  ed by the Minister may be paid to the Members and the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors by the Fund of the Provincial Authority with the concurrence of 
Cabinet of Provincial Ministers.
 17. (1) There shall be a common oﬃ   cial seal for the Provincial Authority. The oﬃ  cial seal of the 
Provincial Authority shall be kept in the custody of the General Manager.
 (2) The seal of the Provincial Authority may be altered as may  be decided by the Board of Directors 
of the Provincial Authority.
Term of oﬃ  ce
of the members
of the Board of
Directors
Appointment
of acting
members  to 
the Board of
Directors
Resignation
Dismissal from
the oﬃ  ce
Abolition
the post
Reinstatement
Remuneration &
Allowances for the
members of the
Director Board
Common Seal
of the Provincial 
Authority

<!-- page 6 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 6A
 (3) Stamping a document or an instrument by using the oﬃ   cial seal shall be made before two 
members of the Director Board of Provincial Authority. One of them shall be the Chairman of 
the Board of Directors of the Provincial Authority. In witnesses where of both members shall set 
their hands to that document or the instrument.
PART II
Powers and Functions of Provincial Road Passenger
Transport Service Authority
 18. Ensuring a quality bus service that meet the need of the p ublic within the North Western Province, 
preparing time tables, taking measures to ensure whether the drivers abide by the said time tables, 
approving the routes for which buses to be provided within the North Western Province, categorizing 
and making decisions for constructing bus halts at the roads ot her than the roads belong to Road 
Development Authority.
 19. (1) Issue of route permits authorizing to use buses, renew  or amend, cancel and extend the validity 
period, regularize the ownership of those permits and prescribi ng fees for the issue of said 
permits in order to satisfy and regularize the requirements of passenger transport service within 
the province. 
  (2) To implement the conditions under which passenger service  permits are issued for authorizing 
to use busses for passenger transportation and to ensure whether those  conditions are followed 
by the permit holders.
  (3) In case deploying busses for passenger transportation ens uring that a ticket should be necessarily 
issued by the conductor to every passenger travels in the bus.
 20. In case the requirements are stipulated by another law in respect of the quality and eligibility of 
a vehicle to be maintained by a permit holder of a motor vehicl e deployed in passenger transport 
service within the province, making recommendations to Minister  to implement standards of the 
required quality and eligibility required for passenger transport.
 21. To order an individual who has obtained a permit for passe nger transportation service within or 
across the North Western Province under this Statute or any other written law to provide information 
and records to the Authority which may be required for a certain purpose under this Statute.
 22. To issue, amend, cancel, and extend the validity period, r egularize the ownership of permits and 
to provide transport services under concessionary fees for tran sportation of students of schools, 
universities and other educational institutes for a fee, beneﬁ t or a gift with in or across the province.
 23. To issue, amend, cancel, and extend the validity period, r egularize the ownership of permits and to 
prescribe fess for those permits in order to regularize and maintain transport services for transportation 
of oﬃ  ce workers and factory workers by buses or vans for a fee, beneﬁ t or a gift within the province.
 24. (1) To charge,  control and regularize the service  fees f rom motor vehicles entering in to the province 
from another province and transporting passengers within or across North Western Province for 
a fee, beneﬁ t or separate fare.
Powers
with regard
to
passenger
transport
service
Issuing  Route
Permits
Standards of
the eligibility
and quality of
vehicles used
for passenger
transportation
Providing
information
Transportation
Of School
Ch ildren
Transportation
of  oﬃ  ce
workers and
factory workers
Inter provincial
transportation
services

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 7A
  (2) Granting recommendations appropriately in case the Nation al Transport Commission or any 
other institutions seek for recommendation in respect of the issue of permits and not allowing 
busses to enter without a permit issued under the recommendation of this Authority and take 
legal actions in this regard.
 25. Establishment of relevant sub committees with the concurrence of the minister in charge of the subject 
and the secretary to the ministry in charge of the subject with the approval of the Director Board to 
introduce and implement new projects for the development of passengers as well as the investors in 
order to improve the quality of passenger transport service within North Western Province.
 26. Prescribing scientiﬁ  c time tables with the combination of Ceylon Transport Board or as may be desired 
by the Authority for running busses to meet the general passenger requirements within the province, 
directing all the drivers to comply with the said time tables, and laying down spot ﬁ ne and taking legal 
actions in respect of violators.
 27. Using trilingual name boards, symbols and codes for initia tion and destination which should be 
displayed inside and outside a bus for which a permit has been issued by the Authority.
 28. Registration, issuing identity cards, and levying charges for that, cancelation of registration, renewal 
and suspension of drivers, conductors, driver assistants who engage in passenger transportation under 
a permit issued by the Authority or another permit.
 29. Establishment, cause to establishment  of emergency invest igation squad and prescribing powers and 
functions of such squads in order to investigate, prevent and take measures against oﬀ ensive actions 
committed under this Statue in respect of passenger transporting vehicles set out in this Statute, which 
run within and across the province.
 30. Identifying and categorizing routes which can be maintaine d transport services upon separate fees 
and to prescribe the type and standard of buses and other motor vehicles to be used for the purpose of 
passenger transport service along each route within the province.
 31. Entering into agreements and contracts with an institution  within Sri Lanka for the achievement 
of targets, aims and functions of the Authority subject to prov isions of Constitution of Sri Lanka, 
rules and regulations of North Western Provincial Council and terms and conditions of any other law 
approved by the North Western Provincial Council and to join an y other institution to achieve the 
aforesaid targets, aims and functions.
 32. Accepting ﬁ  nancial or material or any other grants and donations, and use  them to achieve the 
objectives of the authority subjected to provisions of this Statute.
 33. Initiation of driving training schools, conducting trainin g courses approved by the Department of 
Motor Traﬃ  c for training drivers, conductors and driver assistants and following up.
Introducing
new projects
and
establishing
sub committees
Prescribing Time 
tables
Initiation and
Destination
name boards
etc.
Registration
of drivers,
conductors
and driver
assistants
Emergency 
investigation 
squads
To  identify
passenger
transportation
service routes and
prescribing
vehicles to be run
Agreements and 
Contracts
Donations and
Grants
To train drivers, 
conductors driver 
assistants

<!-- page 8 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 8A
 34. The authority may have the power to implement the following powers in respect of bus terminals and 
bus halts within the province.
 (1) Constructing, maintaining, closing, managing, developing, altering, and legal acquisition of bus 
terminals and bus halts.
 (2) Prescribing management aﬀ  airs and time tables of  the bus stands, and employing staﬀ  of the 
Authority for  the said management activities and issuing order s in respect of prescribing 
powers and functions of them, prescribing records, documents to be maintained and information 
included in those documents by the staﬀ  in bus stand of the Authority.
 (3) Taking decision and prescribing criteria in respect of joi ning external parties for administrative 
and transport service aﬀ airs in bus stands which are administrated and managed by theAuthority.
 (4) Purchasing, leasing/renting out, disposing any movable or immovable property for the purpose 
of Authority subjected to approval of Secretary to the Ministry in charge of subject.
 (5) Executing other powers set out in the Statute which are de emed to be necessary for the 
implementation of the powers, functions and duties properly as per the timely need under this 
Statute. 
PART III
Staﬀ  of the Provincial Transport Service Authority
 35. (1) A General Manager for the Authority shall be appointed  by  the Board of Directors with the 
written approval of the  Minister in terms of the Scheme of rec ruitment approved by the
Hon. Governor. 
  (2) Manipulation of day today activities of Authority and adm inistration of employees of the 
Authority shall be entrusted with the General Manager subjected  to general provisions and 
administration of the Board of Directors and such powers shall be implemented by the General 
Manager  under the guidance and direction of the Board of Directors.
 (3) Some of the powers and functions vested in the General Man ager under this Statute, which may 
be considered from time to time as necessary to be entrusted to  an employee by the General 
Manager may be entrusted to such employee upon the written approval of the Board of Directors 
of the Authority and so entrusted powers, duties and functions shall be implemented subject to  
general or special provisions of the General Manager.
 (4) In case the General Manager is dismissed from the  post by  the Board of Directors of the 
Authority, prior approval of the Minister shall be obtained.
 36. (1) The Board of Directors of the Authority may,
 ( a) Appoint a staﬀ  which may be deemed necessary for the execution of the functions of the 
Authority and maintain the discipline control of the aforesaid staﬀ .
Administration,
management
other powers in
respect of bus
stands in the 
province.
General
Manager the
Authority
Staﬀ 
appointment
of    the 
Authority etc.

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 9A
 ( b) Prescribe salaries, wages or any other remuneration of the staﬀ .
 ( c) Establish and regularize the Employees Provident Fund or schemes and pay subscription 
to such a fund or a scheme for the wellbeing of the staﬀ  of the Authority.
 (2) In case the Board of Directors decides that an oﬃ   cer of North Western Provincial Public Service 
is necessary to be appointed to a temporary or a permanent post in the Authority, the appointment 
may  be made with the concurrence of the relevant oﬃ   cer/and the approval of the relevant 
appointing authority and the North Western Provincial Public Service  Commission.
 (3) An oﬃ   cer employed in public sector could be permanently or tempora rily appointed to the 
Authority by the Board of Directors to the staﬀ  of the Provincial Authority for a certain period 
with the concurrence of  the oﬃ  cer, the Secretary to the Ministry of which he was employed, the 
Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and with the same consent of the Board of 
Directors, upon the request of the Authority.
 (4) In case a person has entered into an agreement to serve fo r the Government or a Provincial 
Council for a certain period, and once such person is employed in the  Provincial Authority his 
period of service at the Authority shall be considered to be a service provided to the government 
or to such Provincial Council with a view to meet the requirements of  the agreement.
PART IV
Finance
 37. (1) A fund cited as "North Western Provincial Road Passeng er Transport Service Fund" should be 
established in the Authority. 
  (2) Finance shall be paid to the Provincial Transport Service  Authority's fund as follows:
 ( a) Fees charged for the issue and renewal of passenger transport  service-permits and all 
money received to the Provincial Authority in the implementatio n and performing its 
powers, functions and duties.
 ( b) All the money credited to Authority including ﬁ nancial provisions received by the North  
Western Provincial Council.
 (3) Administration and keeping accounts of this money is a res ponsibility of the General Manager. 
The General Manager may delegate powers to his staﬀ  for administration and keeping accounts.
 (4) Funds of the authority may be used by Provincial Authority  to manage activities of the Provincial 
Authority, to pay remuneration to members and the  employees of the Authority and to pay the 
expenses incurred in respect of execution of powers and performing functions and duties of the 
Authority and for other purposes authorized by the Board of Directors from time to time under 
this Statute and any other written law.
Fund of the 
Authority

<!-- page 10 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 10A
 38. Under this Statute, ﬁ  nance required for the performance of the duties and functions  of the North 
Western Provincial Road Passenger Transport Service Authority, in addition to the ﬁ nance of the 
Fund, may be borrowed from the Provincial Council Fund or through a public bank draft upon the   
recommendation of the Secretary to the Ministry in Charge of the subject and the approval of the 
Secretary to the Ministry in Charge of subject of Finance or in accordance with a general permission 
or orders given by them.
 39. (1) Financial year of the Provincial Transport Service Aut hority should be the calendar year.
  (2) The Authority shall keep accounts properly in respect of income and expenditure, assets  and 
liabilities and all the other transactions of the Provincial Authority.
  (3) An annual report of the functions executed by the Authori ty shall be prepared by the Authority.
  (4) The Minister shall table the annual report and the audit report of the Authority, before exceeding 
06 months upon the expiration of the relevant ﬁ nancial year.
  (5) Article 154 of the Constitution shall be applied regardin g funds and auditing accounts in terms 
of Section 23 of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
PART V
General Provisions
 40. (1) The Minister may impose orders in respect of all matte rs or one of them authorized under this 
Statute for the purpose of execution and enforcement of provisions of this Statute. 
  (2) The Minister may make orders in respect of all matters or  each of them given bellow without 
prejudice to the general  nature of the powers vested under the aforesaid Sub section 40 (1).
 ( a) All the matters prescribed or authorized to make orders under this Statute.
 ( b) Issue, renewal, amendment, regularizing the ownership of license or other authorities and 
prescribing procedures to be followed and formats to be used in  respect of incidental 
matters and laying down fees to be paid.
 ( c) Prescribing motor vehicles to be used for passenger transport  upon particular charges 
according to the eligibility and usage of the roads and prescribing standards to be met with 
the usage of such motor vehicles.
 ( d) Documents to be carried by the driver, conductor, driver assi stant or the in charge of 
the vehicle utilized under the authority of a permit and particulars to be entered in those 
documents.
 ( e) Reports to be maintained in respect of turns of the busses utilized under the authority of a 
regular passenger transport service permit.
Powers for
borrowing
money
Accounts
of the
Provincial
Authority
Making
orders
under the
Statute

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 11A
 ( f) Standards to be met with by a person who uses a vehicle under the authority of a vehicle 
permit.  
 ( g) Records to be kept by the permit holders in respect of  the persons employed as drivers, 
conductors, driver assistants of the buses used under regular passenger transport permit 
and the time of commencement and  ending of their service and i ntervals obtained by 
them.
 ( h) Securing the aforesaid records and submission of such  reports when demand by a person 
authorized by the  Authority for inspection.
 ( i) Making procedures in respect of the registration, renewal, cancelation and suspension of 
such registration of drivers, conductors and driver assistants employed in the Passenger 
Transport Service under the permits issued by the Authority.
 ( j) Management of powers, duties and functions of the Authority and in respect of minimum 
salaries, leave and privileges of all the employees engaged in passenger transport service.
 ( k) Prescribing uniforms/ badges to be dressed by the drivers, conductors and driver assistants 
employed in the motor vehicles used for regular passenger trans port service under the 
authority of permits and stipulating disciplinary rules obeyed by the said drivers, 
conductors, and driver assistants while they are employed in the passenger transportation.
 (l) Specially in respect of combining the running of busses an d keeping time and Management 
of bus terminals, bus stands and bus halts for providing facilities fairly and properly.
 (m) Stipulating, determining and amendment of fees to be  levi ed on passenger transport 
services not covered under any other law for school vans, hired vehicles deployed under a 
passenger transport permit or any other authority within the province.
 (n) Prescribing minimum qualiﬁ  cations of drivers, driver assistants and conductors deployed 
under the authority of regular passenger service permits and sp ecial passenger service 
permits and directing them for physical and mental eligibility tests from time to time.
 (o) Stipulating regulations regarding measures to be followed and charging of fares in the 
transportation of passengers within North Western Province by busses which have inter 
provincial permits.
 (3) All the orders made under Sub section 40(1) hereto shall b e published in the Gazette and the 
matters set out in such Gazette paper shall be eﬀ ective from the date of publication of the order 
or a date prescribed in the order.
 (4) Any order made under Sub section (1) hereto shall be forwa rded to the Provincial Council for 
approval immediately after the publication of such order in the Gazette and if any order was not 
approved that order shall be deemed as repealed from the date of approval without prejudice to 
the acts made earlier under such order.
 (5) The date on which any such order was deemed as repealed sh all be published in the Gazette.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 12A
 41. North Western Provincial Road Passenger Transport Service Statute No. 04 of 1995 is repealed from 
the date on which this statute is executed.
PART VI
General Provisions
 42. (1) The Minister may issue general or special provisions f rom time to time to the Authority in  
respect of executing its powers and the Authority shall implement those provisions.
  (2) The Minister may from time to time order the Authority to  provide periodical reports, accounts  
and other information with regard to the proceedings of the Authority in a format issued  under 
his direction and the Authority shall comply with all such orders.
 
 43. A person authorized by the Authority may at any time and f rom any place within the North Western 
Province may 
 (1) enter Into a motor vehicle involving in passenger transpor t service and check whether the 
aforesaid vehicle has been authorized for such transportation u nder this Statute or any other 
institution and whether the driver, conductor or driver assistant or the person in charge of the 
vehicle has followed the terms and conditions set out in the permit and aforesaid Statute.
 (2) order the driver, conductor or driver assistant or the per son in charge of the vehicle to forward 
the permit issued by the Authority in respect of the vehicle used for passenger transportation.
 (3) take  in to the custody of the permit or other documents o r photo copies of them.
 (4) inspect the Driving license issued by the Department of Mo tor Traﬃ  c, annual vehicle revenue 
license and other documents which may be considered to be applicable.
 44. (1) ( a) No any civil  action be constituted against the Authority in respect of any action or any 
deed committed or alleged to have been committed by the Authority under this Statute or 
 
   ( b) Against a member, oﬃ  cer or an employee of the authority in respect of committing any 
action under this Statute by the said member, oﬃ  cer or the employee.
 (2) In case a civil case was ﬁ  led against the authority and if the expenses regarding the case have 
to be made by the Authority, it shall be incurred by the Authority's fund. Compensation or any 
amount recovered in respect of such a case by the Authority such amount shall be credited to 
Authority's fund. If the concerned oﬃ  cer of the case  has violated any laws /regulations of the 
Statute or Authority he/she shall be personally responsible for that and the Board of Directors 
shall have the power to make decisions in  respect of whether payment is paid or not for the 
case by Authority's fund.
 45. (1) Where any of the prescribed provisions of this statute  has been violated by an oﬃ  cer authorized 
by the Authority or in respect of à motor vehicle deployed in passenger transport authorized by 
a permit issued under this Statute, in case the responsibility of such a violation is voluntarily 
Repeal  of
Road Passenger
Transport
Statute
Power vested in
the Minister to
issue orders
Enter into
Vehicles and 
Inspection
Safety by 
prosecution
Spot service
Charges

<!-- page 13 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 13A
accepted, in lieu of litigation, such a person may be determine d to a service charge subject 
to maximum spot service charge valid at the time. The authorized oﬃ  cer in that regard or the 
aforesaid oﬃ  cer shall appropriately inform the Authority with the route and the number of the 
motor vehicle.
 (2) Such spot service charge shall be paid in favor of the cre dit of Authority's fund or to a fund of a 
sub oﬃ  ce and  the receipt shall be forwarded within 2 weeks from the  date of such disclosure 
of the oﬀ ence to verify the said  payment.
 46. Every permit issued under this Statute shall be secured in  the motor vehicle for which the permit is 
issued and a photocopy of the permit shall be conspicuously displayed at the front windscreen of the 
relevant vehicle.
 47. The Authority may issue recommendations in respect of gran ting facilities and tax concessionaries 
to purchase buses, for the mere enhancement of passenger transport Service, complying with public 
policies at appropriate circumstances.
PART VII
Oﬀ ences and Penalties
 48. (1) A passenger, who travels in a bus running for the purp ose of transporting passengers in the North 
Western Province under the Authority of a Passenger Transport Service permit issued by the 
Authority or any other institute,
 ( a) Defaults payment of bus fare to be paid by him or, 
 
 ( b) Deliberately denies or evades to getting down at the destination of one's journey or,
 ( c) Uses obscene, uncivilized, or aggressive language or gesture or behaves in such manner 
which is harassing and insulting to an individual, is an oﬀ ence under this Statute and the 
passenger who commits that oﬀ ence shall pay double of the bus fare and a spot ﬁ ne of 
Thousand Rupees (Rs.1000.00). 
 (2)  ( a) A passenger, who travels without any travel permit of a ticket on a bus running under a   
  permit issued by the authority or another institute,
   ( b) does not keep his ticket in his possession until the destination of his entire journey,
  ( c) refuses or evades to show or forward the ticket at the request of the conductor of that bus 
or any other authorized oﬃ  cer for that purpose authorized by the Authority, commits an 
oﬀ ence under this Statute and he shall pay double of the bus fare and an on the spot ﬁ ne 
of Thousand Rupees (Rs.1000.00) to an authorized oﬃ  cer of the Authority.
 (3) ( a) Any individual who uses a permit or a ticket fraudulently issued upon the permission of 
the Authority or allows anyone else to do so,     
Permit shall be 
displayed
Recommendations  
for purchasing
buses
Oﬀ ences   and
Penalties

<!-- page 14 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 14A
  ( b) Any individual who reproduces, deforms, or alters the  nature of such a ticket,  
  ( c) Any individual who sells, supplies or distributes such a tick et or a permit without the 
permission of the Authority,
 ( d) An individual who prints a ticket or a permit without permiss ion or uses such a printed 
ticket,
 ( e) Any conductor who evades or denies issuing a ticket to a passenger who travels in the bus.
  ( f) A driver or a conductor of a bus who uses obscene, uncivilized, or aggressive language or
   gesture or behaves in such manner which is harassing and ins ulting to a passenger who  
  travels in such bus with a valid ticket,
  ( g) In case a driver, conductor or a permit holder of a passenger transporting bus exceeds the
   sound level of their internal sound systems or equipment, pr escribed by the Authority,
  ( h) A driver, conductor or a driver assistant who has not been duly registered in the Authority 
   or, any person involves in passenger transportation under a permit issued by the Authority,
   in an instance where its resignation has been cancelled,
  ( i) A person who displays advertisements by exhibiting notices, s ticking notices or writing
   letters, texts or words or drawing pictures or photos or oth er symbols at a building or  
  passenger shelter situated in a bus stand or another place be long to the Authority and a  
  person deliberately besmears the said places without the perm ission of the Authority, 
   shall be a guilty for an oﬀ  ence under this Statute and when he is found guilty of that  
  o ﬀ  ence before a magistrate, he shall be punished with either des cription of a ﬁ ne not  
  less than an amount of One Thousand Rupees (Rs.1000.00) and n ot exceeding an  
  amount of Twenty Five Thousand Rupees (Rs.25000.00) or impris onment for a term  
  not exceeding six months or both such ﬁ  ne and imprisonment.
 (4) Any person who fails or defaults to act in comply with the  provisions of this Statute or orders 
made thereunder , except  the situations mentioned in Sub Sections (1), (2), (3) of this Statute shall 
be a guilty for an oﬀ ence under this Statute and when he is found guilty of that oﬀ ence before a 
Magistrate, he shall be punished with either description for a term not exceeding six months or 
with a ﬁ ne not less than an amount of One Thousand Five Hundred Rupees (Rs.1500.00) and a 
ﬁ ne not exceeding an amount of Twenty Five Thousand Rupees (Rs.25000.00) or  both such ﬁ ne 
and imprisonment.
 49. Any person commits an oﬀ  ence punishable under Sub Sections (1), (2), (3), (4) of this Statute may 
be taken into custody lawfully by a Police Oﬃ  cer and he shall be forthwith forwarded before the 
Magistrate for taking legal actions against him.
 50. A person forwarding a fraudulent or incorrect report, a wr itten information or a written explanation 
knowing them to be fraudulent or incorrect, has committed an oﬀ ence under this Statute, and when 
Arresting 
oﬀ enders
Forwarding
incorrect
reports

<!-- page 15 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 15A
he is found to be a guilty of that oﬀ  ence at a trial before a Magistrate, he shall be punished with  
either description of a ﬁ ne not less than an amount of Five  Thousand Rupees (Rs.5000.00) and not 
exceeding an amount of  Fifty Thousand Rupees (Rs.50,000.00) or  imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding one year or   both such ﬁ ne and imprisonment.   
 51. A person who defaults, contravenes or fails to comply with  paying a spot ﬁ ne imposed in respect of 
provisions of this Statute or an order, directive or requirement issued thereunder shall be a guilty of 
an oﬀ ence and when he is found to be  guilty of that oﬀ ence at a  trial before a Magistrate, he shall 
be punished with either description of  a ﬁ ne not less than an amount of One Thousand and ﬁ  ve 
Hundred Rupees (Rs.1500.00) and not exceeding an amount of Five Thousand Rupees (Rs.5000.00) 
or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or both such ﬁ ne and imprisonment.
 52. An oﬃ   cer or an employee authorized in writing by the Authority for the purpose of suing in respect 
of oﬀ ences committed under this Statute shall be considered as an oﬃ  cer of the Authority.
 53. Loading passengers into buses from bus halts or bus stands without permission, assisting for collecting 
crowd by shouting loudly and obstructing the duty of the oﬃ  cers of Authority at such places is a 
punishable oﬀ ence. In such a case Police Oﬃ  cers or oﬃ  cers of the Authority may prosecute at the 
Magistrate Court and if the relevant person is found to be a guilty of an oﬀ ence he shall be punished 
with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding one year or with a ﬁ ne not less than 
Two Thousand Rupees (Rs.2000.00) and not exceeding Fifty Thousand Rupees (Rs.50000.00) or 
both such ﬁ ne and imprisonment.
 54. School children shall not be transported without obtaining  a permit issued by the Authority and it is a 
punishable oﬀ ence under this Statute. The person who commits such an oﬀ ence shall pay a spot ﬁ ne 
of Five Thousand Rupees (Rs. 5000.00) to any oﬃ  cer authorized by the Authority. In case such ﬁ ne 
is not paid by the said person an action may be instituted against him by Police oﬃ  cers or oﬃ  cers 
of the Authority at the Magistrate Court and if the person is found to be guilty of that oﬀ ence at the 
trial he shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding one year 
or with a ﬁ ne not less than Two Thousand Rupees (Rs.2000.00) and not exceeding Fifty Thousand 
Rupees (Rs.50000.00) or both such ﬁ ne and imprisonment.
 55. Factory workers shall not be transported without a permit issued by the Authority and doing so is 
a punishable oﬀ ence under this Statute. The person who commits that oﬀ ence shall pay double of 
the annual permit fee for the relevant year and a spot ﬁ ne of Five Thousand Rupees (Rs.5000.00) 
to an authorized oﬃ  cer of the Authority. In case such ﬁ ne is not paid by the said person an action 
may be instituted against him by Police Oﬃ  cers or oﬃ  cers of the Authority at the Magistrate Court 
and if the person is found to be guilty of that oﬀ  ence he shall be punished with imprisonment of 
either description for a term not less than one year or with a ﬁ ne not less than Two Thousand Rupees 
(Rs. 2000.00) and not exceeding Fifty Thousand Rupees (Rs.50000 .00) or both such ﬁ  ne and 
imprisonment.
 56. Any person who illegally obstructs, intrudes,  opposes or inﬂ uence  or subsequently resists or trying 
to do so in case executing powers, functions and duties vested in the Authority under this Statute by 
an authorized oﬃ  cer by the Authority becomes a guilty of an oﬀ ence and if he is found to be guilty of 
that oﬀ ence at a summery trial conducted by the Magistrate, he shall be punished with imprisonment 
Punishments
for defaulting
Spot ﬁ nes
Authorizing for
Suing
Unauthorized
loading
passengers
from bus
stands or bus
halts
Transporting
school
children
without
permits
Supplying
other public
transport
service
without
permits
Obstructing,
inﬂ uencing to
the Authority

<!-- page 16 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 16A
of either description for a term not exceeding one year or with a ﬁ ne not less than Two Thousand 
Rupees (Rs.2000.00) and a ﬁ ne not exceeding Fifty Thousand Rupees (Rs.50000.00) or both such 
ﬁ ne and imprisonment.
PART VIII
Dismissal and Interim Provisions
 57. All the persons who have been holding the posts of Directo rs of the North Western Provincial Road 
Passenger Transport Service Authority under the North Western Provincial Road Passenger Transport 
Service Statute No. 04 of 1995 as at the date immediate prior to the eﬀ ective date of this statute shall 
be deemed as the Directors of the Authority appointed under this Statute until the Directors of the 
Authority are appointed by the Minister under Sub Section 5 (1) of this Statute.
 58. All the oﬃ   cers and other employees employed under North Western Provinc ial Road Passenger 
Transport Service  Statute No. 04 of 1995 as at the immediate date prior to the eﬀ ective date of the 
Statue shall be deemed as the employees employed in the service  of the Authority abiding by the 
terms and conditions of the service employment under the said Passenger Transport Service Statute. 
The service of those employees shall not be terminated on any reason other than the lawful matters 
pertinent to their service employment.
 59. (1) All movable and immovable property including all funds  owned by the said Authority established 
under the North Western Provincial Passenger Transport Service Statute No.04 of 1995 as at the 
immediate date prior to the eﬀ ective date of this Statute shall be transferred to the Authority and 
it shall be considered as a property of the Authority.
  
  (2) All obligations, responsibilities, contracts and agreemen ts including all obligations and liabilities 
regarding Employment  Provident Fund and Employees Trust Fund and remuneration, entered 
into by North Western Provincial  Transport Service Authority established under the North 
Western Provincial Transport Service Statute No.04 of 1995 which is in force on the immediate 
date prior to the implementation of this Statute shall be considered as contracts and agreements 
of the Authority.
  (3) An action constituted, by or against the North Western Pr ovincial Passenger Transport Service 
Authority No.04 of  1995 in a court or a tribunal, on the date immediately prior  to the eﬀ ective 
date of this Statute shall be considered to be a request or an appeal of the authority and they may 
be maintained or terminated.
 (4) In an action a request or an appeal constituted or forward ed by or against the Road Passenger 
Transport Authority of the North Western Province established u nder the North Western 
Provincial Passenger Transport Service Statute No.04 of 1995,or  a decree, grant reported or 
Regulations
(orders) made
under
repealed
Statute
Employees of
the Authority
Provisions
for agreements,
rights, obligations, 
liabilities and       
sues ﬁ led and 
pending

<!-- page 17 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 17A
granted by any court or a tribunal on the date immediately prior to the due date shall be considered 
as decree or a grant reported for the advantage of the Authority or against the Authority as the 
case may be and the Authority may execute decree or a grant  subject to another statute relevant 
to the implementation of a decree, grant or provisions of Civil Procedure Code.
 (5) A permit or any other document which have been issued unde r the North Western Provincial 
Road Passenger Transport Service Statute No.04 of  1995 or considered to be a permit under the 
said Statute and valid to the date immediately prior to the eﬀ ective date of this Statute shall be 
considered as a permit which have been issued within its validity period under this Statute unless 
it is cancelled so far. 
 
 60. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil and English text in this Statute the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
PART IX
Deﬁ nition
 61. Unless a deﬁ  nition regarding the terms of this statute is required, 
  "Province" means the North Western Province.
  "Council" means the North Western Provincial Council.
  "Governor" means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of Governor to the North Western Provincial 
Council.
  "Cabinet" means the cabinet of the North Western Provincial Council.
  "Minister" means the Minister in charge of the subject of transport in the cabinet of the North 
Western Provincial Council.
  "Senior Oﬃ  cer" means an oﬃ  cer holding an oﬃ  ce not lower than the rank of Assistant 
Secretary of Sri Lanka Administrative Service or a person bearing an oﬃ  ce equal to the rank 
of parallel services.
  "Oﬃ  cer” means all employees including the members of the Board of Directors employed at 
the Authority
  "Permit" means, a permit issued under any name out of the names "passenger transport service 
permit", "special services  permit", "route permit", "regular transport service permit”, “school 
service permit", “factory transport service permit" issued granting authority for freight transport 
and passenger transport upon a gift, a beneﬁ t, or upon separate fares under this Statute or under 
any other written law.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'12'31
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 31.12.2023
 18A
  "Bus stand" means the bus passenger terminals situated within the North Western province 
and gazetted bus parking places, bus stands,  and the bus halts situated at the either sides of the 
roads within the North Western Province owned by the Authority shall also be included.
  "Gazette Paper" means the Gazette paper of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
  "Local Government Institutes" means a Municipal Council, an Urban Council or a Pradeshiya 
Sabha.
  "Bus" means a motor coach registered as a Bus and it shall be considered as it includes a dual 
purpose vehicle too.
  "Passenger" means a person who travels  in a hired vehicle or a bus, school service bus or a 
van, a factory bus by making a payment.
  "Fare" means a payment made by a person entitling him to be carried as a passenger on a bus.
  "Motor Vehicle" means a motor vehicle interpreted in the Motor Traﬃ  c  Act.
  "Motor Car" means a motor vehicle interpreted in the Motor Traﬃ  c  Act
  "Passenger Transport Service" means every vehicle transporting passengers, school children, 
oﬃ  ce workers, factory workers along the highways by levying a fee.
  " Scheme of Recruitment " means the recruitment procedure approved by the Hon. Governor 
of the North Western Province.
  "Driver” means a person who drives any vehicle set out in this  Statute with a valid driving 
license eligible for driving the particular vehicle.
  "Conductor” means a person who possesses an identity permit issued by the Authority entitling 
him to issue tickets, and provide facilities and protection and  passenger welfare to every 
passenger travels in the vehicles set out in this Statute.
  "Driver Assistant” means a person who is allotted to assist the driver of any vehicle deployed 
for transportation under this Statute and a person to whom a permit has been issued and training 
has been given by the Authority.      
EOG 01 – 0033
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.