

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
 NINETEENTH AMENDMENT TO THE
CONSTITUTION
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 15th May, 2015]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 60.00 Postage : Rs. 70.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 15, 2015

<!-- page 2 -->

1Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
2—PL 008870—3000 (03/2015)
[Certified on 15th May, 2015]
L.D.—O. 20/2015.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Nineteenth
Amendment to the Constitution.
(2) The provisions of this Act other than the provisions of
section 9 (in so far it relates to paragraph (1) of Article 46 of
the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka) and the provisions of section 15 shall come into
force on the  date on which this Act comes into operation.
(3) The provisions of section 9 (in so far it relates to
paragraph (1) of Article 46 of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka) and the
provisions of sections15, 28, 29 30 and 31 shall come into
force upon the conclusion of the General Election held
immediately after the date on which this Act comes into
operation.
2. The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
“Constitution”) is hereby amended by the insertion
immediately after Article 14 thereof of the following new
Article :-
14
A. (1)  Every citizen shall have the right of
access to any information as provided for by
law, being information that is required for the
execise or protection of a citizen’s right held
by:-
(a) the State, a Ministry or any Government
Department or any statutory body
Short title and
date of
operation.
Insertion of new
Article 14
A in
the Constitution
of the
Democratic
Socialist
Republic of Sri
Lanka.“Right of
access to
information.

<!-- page 3 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution2
established or created by or under
any law;
(b) any Ministry of a Minster of the
Board of Ministers of a Province or
any Department or any statutory  body
established or created by a statute of a
Provincial Council;
(c) any local authority; and
(d) any  other person, who is in possession
of such information relating to any
institution referred to in sub-paragraphs
(a) (b) or (c) of this paragraph.”
 (2) No restrictions shall be placed on the right declared
and recognized by this Article, other than such restrictions
prescribed by law as are necessary in a democratic society,
in the interests of national security, territorial integrity
or public safety, for the prevention of disorder or crime,
for the protection of health or morals and of the reputation
or the rights of others, privacy, prevention of contempt of
court, protection of parliamentary privilege, for preventing
the disclosure of information communicated in confidence,
or for maintaining the authority and impartiality of
the judiciary.
(3) In this Article, “citizen” includes a body whether
incorporated or unincorporated, if not less than three-fourths
of the members of such body are citizens.”.
3. Article 30 of the Constitution is hereby repealed and
the following Article substituted therefor:-
 30. (1) There shall be a President of the
Republic of Sri Lanka, who is the Head of the
State, the Head of the Executive and of the
Government and the Commander-in-Chief of
the Armed Forces.
Replacement of
Article 30 of the
Constitution.
“The
President of
the Republic.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(2) The President of the Republic shall be
elected by the People and shall hold office for
a term of five years.”.
4. Article 31 of the Constitution is hereby amended as
follows:-
(1) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (1) of
that Article, of the following new paragraph:-
 “(2) No person who has been twice elected
to the office of President by the People, shall be
qualified thereafter to be elected to such office by
the People.”;
(2) in paragraph (3
A) of that Article:-
(a) (i) by the substitution in sub-paragraph
(a)(i) of that paragraph, for the words
“commencement of his current term of
office, by Proclamation, declare his
intention”, of the words “commencement
of his first term of office, by Proclamation,
declare his intention”;  and
(ii) by the repeal of the proviso to sub-
paragraph (a)(i);
(b) in sub-paragraph ( d) of that paragraph, by the
substitution for the words “for a term of six
years” wherever those words appear in that
sub-paragraph, of the words “ for a term of
five years”.
5. Article 33 of the Constitution is hereby repealed and
the following Article  is substituted therefor:-
33. (1) It shall be the duty of the President
to—
Amendment of
Article 31 of the
Constitution.
“Duties,
powers and
functions of
the President.
Replacement of
Article 33 of the
Constitution.

<!-- page 5 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution4
(a) ensure that the Constitution is
respected and upheld;
(b) promote national reconciliation and
integration;
(c) ensure and facilitate the proper
functioning of the Constitutional
Council and the institutions referred
to in Chapter VIIA; and
(d) on the advice of the Election
Commission, ensure the creation of
proper conditions for the conduct of
free and fair elections and referenda.
(2) In addition to the powers, duties and
functions expressly conferred or imposed on,
or assigned to the President by the Constitution
or other written law, the President shall have
the power–
(a) to make the Statement of
Government Policy in Parliament at
the commencement of each session
of Parliament;
(b) to preside at ceremonial sittings of
Parliament;
(c) to summon, prorogue and dissolve
Parliament;
(d) to receive and recognize,
and to appoint and accredit,
Ambassadors, High Commissioners,
Plenipotentiaries and other
diplomatic agents;

<!-- page 6 -->

5Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(e) to appoint as President’s Counsel,
attorneys- at- law who have reached
eminence in the profession and have
maintained high standards of
conduct and professional rectitude.
Every President’s Counsel
appointed under this paragraph shall
be entitled to all such privileges as
were hitherto enjoyed by Queen’s
Counsel;
(f) to keep the Public Seal of the
Republic, and to make and execute
under the Public Seal, the acts of
appointment of the Prime Minister
and other Ministers of the Cabinet
of Ministers, the Chief Justice and
other judges of the Supreme Court,
the President of the Court of Appeal
and other judges of the Court of
Appeal, and such grants and
dispositions of lands and other
immovable property vested in the
Republic as the President is by law
required or empowered to do, and to
use the  Public Seal for sealing all
things whatsoever that shall pass that
Seal;
(g) to declare war and peace; and
(h) to do all such acts and things, not
inconsistent with the provisions of
the Constitution or written law, as
by international law, custom or
usage the President is authorized or
required to do.”.

<!-- page 7 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution6
6. The following Article is hereby inserted immediately
after Article 33, and shall have effect as Article 33 A of the
Constitution:-
33A. The President shall be responsible to
Parliament for the due exercise, performance
and discharge of his powers, duties and
functions under the Constitution and any
written law, including the law for the time being
relating to public security.”.
7. Article 35 of the Constitution is hereby repealed and
the following Article  is substituted therefor:-
35. (1) While any person holds office as
President of the Republic of Sri Lanka, no civil
or criminal proceedings shall be instituted or
continued against the President in respect of
anything done or omitted to be done by the
President, either in his official or private
capacity:
 Provided that nothing in this paragraph
shall be read and construed as restricting the
right of any person to make an application
under Article 126 against the Attorney-General,
in respect of anything done or omitted to be
done by the President, in his official capacity:
Provided further that the Supreme Court
shall have no jurisdiction to pronounce upon
the exercise of the powers of the President
under Article 33(2)(g).
(2) Where provision is made by law limiting
the time within which proceedings of any
description may be instituted against any
person, a period of time during which such
Insertion of new
Article 33 A in
the Constitution.
Replacement of
Article 35 of the
Constitution.
“President to
be
responsible
to
Parliament.
“Immunity
of President
from suit.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
person holds the office of President of the
Republic of Sri Lanka shall not be taken into
account in calculating any period of time
prescribed by that law.
(3) The immunity conferred by the
provisions of paragraph (1) shall not apply to
proceedings in the Supreme Court under
paragraph (2) of  Article 129 and to
proceedings under Article 130 ( a) relating to
the election of the President or the validity of a
referendum.”.
8. Chapter VIIA of the Constitution is hereby repealed
and the following Chapter substituted therefor:-
“CHAPTER VIIA
THE CONSTITUTIONAL COUNCIL
41
A. (1) There shall be a Constitutional
Council (in this Chapter referred to as the
“Council”) which shall consist of the following
members:–
(a) the  Prime Minister;
(b) the Speaker;
(c) the Leader of the Opposition in
Parliament;
(d) one Member of Parliament
appointed by the President;
(e) five persons appointed by the
President, on the nomination of both
the Prime Minister and the Leader
of the Opposition of whom two
persons shall be Members of
Parliament; and
Replacement of
Chapter VIIA of
the Constitution.
Constitution
of the
Constitutional
Council.

<!-- page 9 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution8
(f) one Member of Parliament
nominated by agreement of the
majority of the Members of
Parliament belonging to political
parties or independent groups, other
than the respective political parties
or independent groups to which the
Prime Minister and the Leader of the
Opposition belong, and appointed
by the President.
(2) The Speaker shall be the Chairman of
the Council.
 (3) It shall be the duty of the Speaker to
ensure that nominations for appointments
under sub-paragraph (e) or sub-paragraph (f) of
paragraph (1) are made, whenever an occasion
for such nominations arises.
(4) In nominating the five persons referred
to in sub-paragraph ( e) of paragraph (1), the
Prime Minister and the Leader of the
Opposition shall consult the leaders of political
parties and independent groups represented in
Parliament so as to ensure that the
Constitutional Council reflects the pluralistic
character of Sri Lankan society, including
professional and social diversity .
(5) The persons who are not Members of
Parliament to be appointed under sub-
paragraph (e) of paragraph (1) shall be persons
of eminence and integrity who have
distinguished themselves in public or
professional life and who are not members of
any political party whose nomination shall be
approved by Parliament.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(6) The President shall, within fourteen days
of the receipt of a written communication
specifying the nominations made under sub-
paragraphs (e) and (f) of paragraph (1), make the
necessary appointments. In the event of the
President failing to make the necessary
appointments within such period of fourteen
days, the persons nominated shall be deemed to
have been appointed as members of the Council,
with effect from the date of expiry of such period.
(7) ( a) On the dissolution of Parliament,
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
(2) of Article 64, the Speaker shall continue
to hold office as a member of the Council, until a
Member of Parliament is elected to be the Speaker
under paragraph (1) of the aforesaid Article;
(b) Notwithstanding the dissolution of
Parliament, the Prime Minister, the Leader of
the Opposition and the Members of Parliament
who are members of the Constitutional Council,
shall continue to hold office as Members of
such Council, until such time after a General
Election following such dissolution, a Member
of Parliament is appointed as the Prime Minister
or recognized as the Leader of the Opposition
or such number of Members of Parliament are
appointed as Members of the Constitutional
Council under sub-paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of
paragraph (1), as the case may be.
(8) Every member of the Council appointed
under sub-paragraphs ( d), ( e) and ( f) of
paragraph (1), shall hold office for a period of
three years from the date of appointment unless
the member earlier resigns his office by writing
addressed to the President, is removed from
office by the President on both the Prime
Minister and the Leader of the Opposition

<!-- page 11 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution10
forming an opinion that such member is
physically or mentally incapacitated and is
unable to function further in office or is
convicted by a court of law for any offence
involving moral turpitude or if a resolution for
the imposition of civic disability upon him
has been passed in terms of Article 81 of the
Constitution or is deemed to have vacated his
office under paragraph (7) of Article 41
E.
(9) In the event of there being a vacancy
among the members appointed under sub-
paragraphs (d), (e) or (f)) of paragraph (1), the
President shall, within fourteen days of the
occurrence of such vacancy and having regard
to the provisions of the aforementioned sub-
paragraphs, appoint another person to succeed
such member. Any person so appointed, shall
hold office during the unexpired part of the
period of office of the member whom he
succeeds.
(10) A member appointed under sub-
paragraphs (d), (e) or (f) of paragraph (1), shall
not be eligible for re-appointment.
(11) The appointments made by the
President under sub-paragraphs (d), (e) and (f)
of paragraph (1), shall be communicated to the
Speaker.
41
B. (1) No person shall be appointed by
the President as the Chairman or a member of
any of the Commissions specified in the
Schedule to this Article, except on a
recommendation of the Council.
 (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this
Article shall apply in respect of any person
appointed to act as the Chairman or as a
member of any such Commission.
Council to
recommend
appointments.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(3) It shall be the duty of the Council to
recommend to the President fit and proper
persons for appointment as Chairmen or
members of the Commissions specified in the
Schedule to this Article, whenever the occasion
for such appointments arises, and such
recommendations shall endeavour  to ensure
that such recommendations reflect the
pluralistic character of Sri Lankan society,
including gender. In the case of the Chairmen
of such Commissions, the Council shall
recommend three persons for appointment, and
the President shall appoint one of the persons
recommended as Chairman.
(4) The President shall appoint the
Chairman and the members of the Commissions
specified in the Schedule to this Article, within
fourteen days of receiving the
recommendations of the Council for such
appointments. In the event of the President
failing to make the necessary appointments
within such period of fourteen days–
(a) the persons recommended under
paragraph (3), to be appointed as
members of a Commission, shall be
deemed to have been appointed as
the members of the Commissions;
and
(b) the person whose name appears first
in the list  of names recommended
under paragraph (3), to be appointed
as the Chairman of a Commission,
shall be deemed to have been
appointed the Chairman of the
respective Commission,
with effect from the date of expiry of such
period.

<!-- page 13 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution12
(5) No person appointed under paragraph
(1) or a person appointed to act as the Chairman
or a member of any such Commission, shall be
removed except as provided for in the
Constitution or in any written law, and where
there is no such provision, such person shall
be removed by the President only with the prior
approval of the Council.
(6) All the Commissions referred to in the
Schedule to this Article, other than the Election
Commission, shall be responsible and
answerable to Parliament.
SCHEDULE
(a) The Election Commission.
(b) The Public Service Commission.
(c) The National Police Commission.
(d) The Audit Service Commission.
(e) The Human Rights Commission of Sri
Lanka.
(f) The Commission to Investigate
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.
(g) The Finance Commission.
(h) The Delimitation Commission.
(i) The National Procurement Commission.
41
C. (1) No person shall be appointed by
the President to any of the Offices specified in
the Schedule to this Article, unless such
appointment has been approved by the
Council upon a recommendation made to the
Council by the President.
Council to
approve
appointments.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this
Article shall apply in respect of any person
appointed to act for a period exceeding
fourteen days, in any Office specified in the
Schedule to this Article:
 Provided that no person shall be appointed
to act in any such office for successive
periods not exceeding fourteen days, unless
such acting appointment has been approved
by the Council on a recommendation by the
President.
(3) No person appointed to any Office
specified in the Schedule to this Article or to
act in any such Office, shall be removed from
such Office except as provided for in the
Constitution or in any law.
(4) In the discharge of its function relating
to the appointment of Judges of the Supreme
Court and the President and Judges of the Court
of Appeal, the Council shall obtain the views
of the Chief Justice.
SCHEDULE
PART I
(a) The Chief Justice and the Judges of the
Supreme Court.
(b) The President and the Judges of the Court
of Appeal.
(c) The Members of the Judicial Service
Commission, other than the Chairman.

<!-- page 15 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution14
PART II
(a) The Attorney-General.
(b) The Auditor-General.
(c) The Inspector-General of Police.
(d) The Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration (Ombudsman).
(e) The Secretary-General of Parliament.
41D. (1) There shall be a Secretary-General
to the Council who shall be appointed by
the Council for a term of five years. Upon
the expiration of his term of office, the
Secretary-General shall be eligible for
reappointment.
(2) The Council may appoint such officers
as it considers necessary for the discharge of
its functions, on such terms and conditions as
shall be determined by the Council.
41
E. (1) The Council shall meet at least twice
every month, and as often as may be necessary
to discharge the functions assigned to the
Council by the provisions of this Chapter or
by any law, and such meetings shall be
summoned by the Secretary- General to the
Council on the direction of the Chairman of
the Council.
(2) The Chairman shall preside at all
meetings of the Council and in the absence of
the Chairman, the Prime Minister, and in the
absence of the Prime Minister, the Leader of
the Opposition shall preside at the meetings of
the Council.
(3) The quorum for any meeting of the
Council shall be five members.
Meetings of
the Council.
Secretary-
General and
other officers
of the
Council.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(4) The Council shall endeavour to make
every recommendation, approval or decision
it is required to make by unanimous decision
and in the absence of an unanimous decision,
no recommendation, approval or decision made
by the Council shall be valid, unless supported
by not less than five members of the Council
present at such meeting.
(5) The Chairman or the other member
presiding shall not have an original vote, but
in the event of an equality of votes on any
question for decision at any meeting of the
Council, the Chairman or other member
presiding at such meeting, shall have a casting
vote.
(6) The procedure in regard to meetings of
the Council and the transaction of business at
such meetings shall be determined by the
Council, including procedures to be followed
in regard to the recommendation or approval
of persons suitable for any appointment under
Article 41
B or Article 41C.
(7) Any member of the Council appointed
under sub-paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of paragraph
(1) of Article 41A, who without obtaining prior
leave of the Council absents himself  from three
consecutive meetings of the Council, shall be
deemed to have vacated office with effect from
the date of the third of such meetings.
(8) The Council shall have the power to act
notwithstanding the fact that it has not been
fully constituted or that there is a vacancy in
its membership, and no act, proceeding or
decision of the Council shall be or deemed to
be invalid by reason only of the fact that the

<!-- page 17 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution16
Council has not been fully constituted or that
there has been a vacancy in its membership or
that there has been any defect in the
appointment of a member.
41
F. Notwithstanding the expiration of the
term of office of the members of the Council or
of the members of any Commission specified
in the Schedule to Article 41B, the members of
the Council or of such other Commission shall
continue in office until the assumption of office
by the new members of the Council or of such
other Commission.
41
G. (1) The Council shall, once in every
three months, submit to the President a report
of its activities during the preceding three
months.
(2) The Council shall perform and discharge
such other duties and functions as may be
imposed or assigned to the Council by the
Constitution, or by any other written law.
(3) The Council shall have the power to
make rules relating to the performance and
discharge of its duties and function.  All such
rules shall be published in the Gazette and be
placed before Parliament within three months
of such publication.
41
H. The expenses incurred by the Council
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
41I. Subject to the provisions of Article 126,
no court shall have the power or jurisdiction to
entertain, hear or decide or call in question, on
any ground whatsoever, or in any manner
Continuation
in office of
the members
of the
Council.
Powers and
duties of the
Council.
Expenses to
be charged
on the
Consolidated
Fund.
Finality of
decisions of
the Council.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
whatsoever, any decision of the Council or any
approval or recommendation made by the
Council, which decision, approval or
recommendation shall be final and conclusive
for all purposes.”.
9. Chapter VIII of the Constitution is hereby repealed
and the following Chapter substituted therefor:-
“CHAPTER VIII
THE EXECUTIVE
T
HE CABINET OF MINISTERS
 42. (1) There shall be a Cabinet of Ministers
charged with the direction and control of the
Government of the Republic.
(2) The Cabinet of Ministers shall be
collectively responsible and answerable to
Parliament.
(3) The President shall be a member of the
Cabinet of Ministers and shall be the Head of
the Cabinet of Ministers.
(4) The President shall appoint as Prime
Minister the Member of Parliament, who, in
the President’s opinion, is most likely to
command the confidence of Parliament.
43. (1) The President shall, in consultation
with the Prime Minister, where he considers
such consultation to be necessary, determine
the number of Ministers of the Cabinet of
Ministers and the Ministries and the
assignment of subjects and functions to such
Ministers.
Replacement of
Chapter VIII of
the Constitution.
Prime
Minister and
the Cabinet
of Ministers.
Ministers and
their subjects
and
functions.

<!-- page 19 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution18
(2) The President shall, on the advice of the
Prime Minister, appoint from among Members
of Parliament, Ministers, to be in charge of the
Ministries so determined.
(3) The President may at any time change
the assignment of subjects and functions and
the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers.
Such changes shall not affect the continuity of
the Cabinet of Ministers and the continuity of
its responsibility to Parliament.
 44. (1) The President may, on the advice of
the Prime Minister, appoint from among
Members of Parliament, Ministers who shall
not be members of the Cabinet of Ministers.
(2) The President may, in consultation with
the Prime Minister where he considers such
consultation to be necessary, determine the
assignment of subjects and functions to
Ministers appointed under paragraph (1) of this
Article and the Ministries, if any, which are to
be in charge of, such Ministers.
 (3) The President  may at any time change
any assignment made under paragraph (2).
(4) Every Minister appointed under
paragraph (1) shall be responsible to the
Cabinet of Ministers and to Parliament.
(5) Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers
may, by Notification published in the Gazette,
delegate to any Minister who is not a member
of the Cabinet of Ministers, any power or duty
pertaining to any subject or function assigned
to such cabinet Minister,  or any power or duty
conferred or imposed on him by any written
law, and it shall be lawful for such other
Minister to exercise and perform any power or
Ministers
who are not
members of
the Cabinet
of Ministers.

<!-- page 20 -->

19Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
duty delegated notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in the written law by which that
power or duty is conferred or imposed on such
Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers.
45. (1)The President may, on the advice of
the Prime Minister, appoint from among
Members of Parliament, Deputy Ministers to
assist Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers in
the performance of their duties.
(2) Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers
may by Notification published in the Gazette,
delegate to his Deputy Minister, any power or
duty pertaining to any subject or function
assigned to him or any power or duty conferred
or imposed on him by any written law, and it
shall be lawful for such Deputy Minister to
exercise and perform any power or duty
delegated notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the written law by which that power
or duty is conferred or imposed on such
Minister.
 46. (1) The total number of–
(a) Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers
shall not exceed thirty; and
(b) Ministers who are not members of
the Cabinet of Ministers and Deputy
Ministers shall not, in the aggregate,
exceed forty.
(2) The Prime Minister shall continue to hold
office throughout the period during which the
Cabinet of Ministers continues to function under
the provisions of the Constitution unless he–
(a) resigns his office by a writing under
his hand addressed to the President;
or
Tenure of
office of the
Prime
Minister, and
the limitation
of numbers
and tenure of
office of
Ministers and
Deputy
Ministers.
Deputy
Ministers.

<!-- page 21 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution20
(b) ceases to be a Member of Parliament.
(3) A Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers,
a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet
of Ministers and a  Deputy Minister, shall
continue to hold office throughout the period
during which the Cabinet of Ministers
continues to function under the provisions of
the Constitution unless he–
(a) is removed from office under the
hand of the President on the advice
of the Prime Minister;
(b)  resigns from office by a writing
under his hand addressed to the
President; or
(c) ceases to be a Member of Parliament.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in
paragraph (1) of this Article, where the
recognized political party or the independent
group which obtains highest number of seats
in Parliament forms a National Government,
the number of Ministers in the Cabinet of
Ministers, the number of Ministers who are not
Cabinet of Ministers and the number of Deputy
Ministers shall be determined by Parilament.
(5) For the purpose of paragraph (4),
National Government means, a Government
formed by the recognized political party or the
independent group which obtains the highest
number of seats in Parliament together with
the other recognized political parties or the
independent groups.
47. (1) The Cabinet of Ministers functioning
immediately prior to the dissolution of
Parliament shall, notwithstanding such
dissolution, continue to function and shall
Cabinet of
Ministers
after
dissolution of
Parliament.

<!-- page 22 -->

21Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
cease to function upon the conclusion of the
General Election and accordingly, the Prime
Minister and the Ministers of the Cabinet of
Ministers, shall continue to function unless they
cease to hold office as provided in sub paragraph
(a) of paragraph (2) or sub paragraph (a) or (b)
of paragraph (3) of Article 46 and shall comply
with the criteria set out by the Commissioner of
Elections and shall not cause any undue
influence on the General Election.
(2) Notwithstanding the death, removal
from office or resignation of the Prime Minister,
during the period intervening between the
dissolution of Parliament and the conclusion
of the General Election, the Cabinet of
Ministers shall continue to function with the
other Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers as
its members, until the conclusion of the
General Election. The President may appoint
one such Minister to exercise, perform and
discharge the powers, duties and functions of
the Prime Minister.
(3) On the death, removal from office or
resignation, during the period intervening
between the dissolution of Parliament and the
conclusion of the General Election, of a Minister
of the Cabinet of Ministers, the President may,
on the advice of the Prime Minister, appoint
any other Minister to be the Minister in charge
of the Ministry of such Minister or to exercise,
perform and discharge the powers, duties and
functions of such Minister.
48. (1) On the Prime Minister ceasing to
hold office by death, resignation or otherwise,
except during the period intervening between
the dissolution of Parliament and the
conclusion of the General Election, the Cabinet
of Ministers shall, unless the President has in
Dissolution
of the
Cabinet of
Ministers. 

<!-- page 23 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution22
the exercise of his powers under Article 70,
dissolved Parliament, stand dissolved and the
President shall appoint a Prime Minister,
Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministers
who are not members of the Cabinet of
Ministers and Deputy Ministers in terms of
Articles 42, 43, 44 and 45:
 Provided that if after the Prime Minister so
ceases to hold office, Parliament is dissolved,
the Cabinet of Ministers shall continue to
function with the other Ministers of the Cabinet
as its members, until the conclusion of the
General Election. The President may appoint
one such Minister to exercise, perform and
discharge the powers, duties and functions of
the Prime Minister, and the provisions of
Article 47 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply.
(2) If Parliament rejects the Statement of
Government Policy or the Appropriation Bill
or passes a vote of no-confidence in the
Government, the Cabinet of Ministers shall
stand dissolved, and the President shall,
unless he has in the exercise of his powers
under Article 70, dissolved Parliament, appoint
a Prime Minister, Ministers of the Cabinet of
Ministers, Ministers who are not members of
the Cabinet of Ministers and Deputy Ministers
in terms of Articles 42, 43, 44 and 45.
49. Whenever a Minister of the Cabinet of
Ministers, a Minister who is not a members of
the Cabinet of Ministers or a Deputy Minister
is unable to discharge the functions of his  office,
the President may, on the advice of the Prime
Minister, appoint any Member of Parliament to
act in the place of such Minister of the Cabinet
of 
Ministers, Minister who is not a member of
the Cabinet of Ministers or a Deputy Minister.
Acting
Ministers and
Deputy
Ministers.

<!-- page 24 -->

23Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
50. (1) There shall be a Secretary to the
Cabinet of Ministers who shall be appointed
by the President.
(2) The Secretary shall, subject to the
direction of the President, have charge of the
office of the Cabinet of Ministers, and shall
discharge and perform such other functions and
duties as may be assigned to him by the
President or the Cabinet of Ministers.
51.(1) There shall be a Secretary to the
Prime Minister who shall be appointed by the
President.
(2)  The Secretary shall have charge of the
office of the Prime Minister and shall perform
and discharge the duties and functions of his
office, subject to the directions of the Prime
Minister.
52. (1) There shall be a Secretary for every
Ministry of a Minister of the Cabinet of
Ministers, who shall be appointed by the
President.
(2) The Secretary to a Ministry shall,
subject to the direction and control of his
Minister, exercise supervision over the
departments of government and other
institutions in charge of the Minister.
(3) The Secretary to a Ministry shall cease
to hold office upon the dissolution of the
Cabinet of Ministers under the provisions of
the Constitution or upon a determination by
the President under Article 43 or 44 which
results in the Ministry ceasing to exist.
(4) For the purposes of this Article, the
office of the Secretary to the President, the
office of the Secretary to the Cabinet of
Secretary to
the Prime
Minister.
 Secretary to
the Cabinet
of Ministers.
Secretaries to
Ministries.

<!-- page 25 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution24
Ministers, the office of the Auditor-General,
the office of the Parliamentary Commissioner
for Administration (Ombudsman), the office of
the Secretary-General of Parliament, the
Constitutional Council, and the Commissions
referred to in the Schedule to Article 41B shall
be deemed not to be departments of
Government.
53. Every person appointed to any office
referred to in this Chapter shall not enter upon
the duties of his office until he takes and
subscribes the oath, or makes and subscribes
the affirmation, set out in the Fourth Schedule
and Seventh Schedule.”.
10. Article 54 of the Constitution is hereby amended as
follows:-
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and
the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-
“(1) There shall be a Public Service
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the
“Commission”) which shall consist of nine
members appointed by the President on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council,
of whom not less than three members shall be
persons who have had over fifteen years
experience as a public officer. The President on
the recommendation of the Constitutional
Council shall appoint one member as its
Chairman.”;
(2) by the repeal of paragraph (4) of that Article, and
the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-
“(4) Every member of the Commission shall
hold office for a period of three years from the
Official oath
and
affirmation.
Amendment of
Article 54 of the
Constitution.

<!-- page 26 -->

25Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
date of appointment, unless the member becomes
subject to any disqualification under paragraph
(2) or earlier resigns from his office by writing
addressed to the President or is removed from
office by the President with the approval of the
Constitutional Council or is convicted by a court
of law of any offence involving moral turpitude
or if a resolution for the imposition of civic
disability upon the member has been passed in
terms of Article 81 or is deemed to have vacated
his office under paragraph (6).”; and
(3) by the repeal of paragraph (7) of that Article, and
the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-
“(7) The President may grant a member leave
from the performance of his duties relating to the
Commission for a period not exceeding two
months and shall, for the duration of such period,
on the recommendation of the Constitutional
Council, appoint a person qualified to be a
member of the Commission, to be a temporary
member for the period of such leave.”.
11. Article 56 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the words
“as are specified by the Cabinet of Ministers”, of the words
“as are specified by the Commission”.
12. Article 57 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the words
“as are specified by the Cabinet of Ministers”, of the words
“as are specified by the Commission”.
13. Article 61A of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the substitution for the words “Subject to the provisions
of paragraphs  (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) of Article 126”, of the
words “Subject to the provisions of Article 59 and of Article
126,”.
Amendment of
Article 56 of the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 57 of the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 61
A of
the Constitution.

<!-- page 27 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution26
14. Articles 61E and 61F of the Constitution are hereby
repealed and the following Articles  substituted therefor:-
61E. (1) The President shall appoint:-
(a) the Heads of the Army, the Navy and
the Air Force;
(b) subject to the approval of the
Constitutional Council, the
Attorney-General and the Inspector-
General of Police,
(2) The holders of the Offices of Attorney-
General and the Inspector-General of Police
shall retire from their respective Office, upon
their attaining the age of sixty years.
61
F. For the purposes of this Chapter “public
officer” does not include a member of the
Army, Navy, or Air Force, an officer of the
Election Commission appointed by such
Commission, a police officer appointed by the
National Police Commission, a scheduled
public officer appointed by the Judicial Service
Commission or a member of the Sri Lanka State
Audit Service appointed by the Audit Service
Commission.”.
15. Article 62 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraph (2) of that Article, and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-
 “(2) 
Unless Parliament is sooner dissolved,
every Parliament shall continue for five years
from the date appointed for its first meeting and
no longer, and the expiry of the said period of
five years shall operate as a dissolution of
Parliament.”.
Replacement of
Article 61
E and
61F of the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 62 of the
Constitution.
“Appointments
by the
President.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 28 -->

27Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
16. Article 65 of the Constitution is hereby amended as
follows:-
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and
the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-
“(1) There shall be a Secretary-General of
Parliament  who shall, subject to the approval of
the Constitutional Council, be appointed by the
President and who shall hold office during good
behaviour.”; and
(2) by the repeal of paragraph (6) of that Article, and
the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-
 “(6) Whenever the Secretary-General
is unable to discharge the functions of his office,
the President may, subject to to the approval of
the Constitutional Council, appoint a person to
act in the place of the Secretary-General.”.
17. Article 70 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-
“(1) The President may by Proclamation,
summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament:
 Provided that the President shall not dissolve
Parliament until the expiration of a period of not
less than four years and six months from the date
appointed for its first meeting, unless Parliament
requests the President to do so by a resolution
passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole
number of Members (including those not present),
voting in its favour .”.
Amendment of
Article 65 of the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 70 of the
Constitution.

<!-- page 29 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution28
18. Article 78 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-
“(1) Every Bill shall be published in the Gazette
at least fourteen days before it is placed on the
Order Paper of Parliament.”.
19. Article 85 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraph (2) of that Article.
20. Article 91 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph (1) of that Article as follows:-
(1) by the substitution for items ( v), (va) and ( vc) of
that sub-paragraph, of the following items:-
“(v) a member of the Constitutional Council,
referred to in sub-paragraph( e) of paragraph
(1) of Article 41
A other than any Member of
Parliament;
(va) a member of any Commission  specified in
the Schedule to Article 41 B;
(vb) the Commissioner General of Elections;”;
(2) by the substitution in item (vii) of that sub-
paragraph, for the words “a public officer holding
any office”, of the words “a public officer or a
member of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service
holding any office”.
(3) by the substitution in item (viii) of that sub-
paragraph,  for the words “a public officer holding
any office”, of the words “a public officer or a
member of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service
holding any  office”; and
(4) by the addition immediately after item (xii) of that
sub-paragraph, of the following new item:-
“(xiii) a citizen of Sri Lanka who is also a citizen
of any other  country;”.
Amendment of
Article 78 of the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 85 of the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 91 of the
Constitution.

<!-- page 30 -->

29Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
21. Article 92 of the Constitution is hereby amended as
follows:-
(1) in paragraph ( a) of that Article, by the substitution,
for the words “thirty”, of the words “thirty five”;
(2) by the addition  immediately  after paragraph ( b) of
that Article, of the following new paragraph:-
“(c) if he has been twice elected to the office of
President by the People.”; and
22. Article 103 of the Constitution is hereby amended
as follows:-
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and
the substitution of the following paragraph
therefor:-
“(1) There shall be an Election Commission
(in this Chapter referred to as the “Commission”)
consisting of three members appointed by the
President on the recommendation of the
Constitutional Council, from amongst persons
who have distinguished themselves in any
profession or in the fields of administration or
education. One of the members so appointed shall
be a retired officer of the Department of Elections,
who has held office as a Deputy Commissioner of
Elections or above. The President shall on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council,
appoint one member as its Chairman.”; and
(2) by the repeal of paragraph (7) of that Article and
the  substitution of the following paragraph
therefor:-
“(7) The President may grant a member leave
from the performance of his duties relating to the
Amendment of
Article 92 of the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 103 of
the Constitution.

<!-- page 31 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution30
Commission for a period not exceeding two
months, and may appoint a person qualified to be
a member of the Commission to be a temporary
member for the period of such leave. Every such
appointment shall be made on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council.”.
23. Article 104
B of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraphs  (4), (4 a) and (5) of that Article
and the substitution of the following paragraphs therefor:-
“(4) (a)The Commission shall have the power
during the period of an election, to prohibit the use
of any movable or immovable  property belonging
to the State or any public corporation–
(i) for the purpose of promoting or
preventing the election or any candidate
of any political party or independent
group contesting at such election;
(ii) by any candidate or any political party
or any independent group contesting
at such election,
by a direction in writing by the Chairman of the
Commission or of the Commissioner General of
Elections on the instructions of the Commission.
(b) It shall be the duty of every person or officer
in whose custody or under whose control such
property is for the time being, to comply with, and
give effect to, such direction.
(5) (a) The Commission shall have the power to
issue from time to time, in respect of the holding of
any election or the conduct of a Referendum, such
guidelines as the Commission may consider
appropriate, to any broadcasting or telecasting
operator or any proprietor or publisher of a
newspaper, as the case may be, as the Commission
may consider necessary to ensure a free and fair
election.
Amendment of
Article 104 B of
the Constitution.

<!-- page 32 -->

31Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(b) It shall be the duty of the Chairman of the
Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation, the Chairman
of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation and the
Chairman of the Independent Television Network
and the Chief Executive Officer of every other
broadcasting or telecasting enterprise owned or
controlled by the State to take all necessary steps
to ensure compliance with such guidelines as are
issued to them under sub-paragraph ( a).
(c) (i) The Commission shall cause the
directions and guidelines referred to in
paragraphs 4(a) and paragraph 5( a) to
be published in at least one newspaper
widely circulated, in the Sinhala, Tamil
and English languages.
(ii) Every direction and guideline shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come
into operation on the date of such
publication or on such later date as may
be specified in such direction and
guideline.
(iii) Every such direction and guideline
shall, within three months from the date
of publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any
direction or guideline which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
24. Article 104
E of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article and the
substitution of the following paragraph therefor:-
“(1) There shall be a Commissioner General
of Elections who shall, subject to the approval of
the Constitutional Council, be appointed by the
Amendment of
Article 104 E of
the Constitution.

<!-- page 33 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution32
Commission on such terms and conditions as may
be determined by the Commission.”.
25. The following new Article is hereby inserted
immediately after Article 104G and shall have effect as Article
104GG of the Constitution:-
104GG. (1)  Any public officer, any employee
of any public corporation, business or other
undertaking vested in the Government under
any other written law and any company
registered or deemed to be registered under the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, in which the
Government or any public corporation or local
authority holds fifty per centum or more of the
shares of that company, who–
(a) refuses or fails without a reasonable
cause to co-operate with the
Commission, to secure the
enforcement of any law relating to
the holding of an election or the
conduct of a Referendum; or
(b) fails without a reasonable cause to
comply with any directions or
guidelines issued by the Commission
under sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph
(4) or sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph
(5), respectively, of Article 104
B,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Every High Court established under
Article 154
P of the Constitution shall have
jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter
referred to in paragraph (1).”.
Insertion of new
Article 104 GG in
the Constitution.
“Failure to
comply with
directions to
be an
offence.

<!-- page 34 -->

33Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
26. Article 107 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article and the
substitution of the following paragraph therefor:-
“(1) The Chief Justice, the President of the Court of Appeal
and every other judge of the Supreme Court and of the Court
of Appeal shall, subject to the approval of the Constitutional
Council, be appointed by the President by warrant under his
hand.”.
27. Article 109 of the Constitution is hereby repealed
and the following Article substituted therefor:-
109.  (1)  If the Chief Justice or the President
of the Court of Appeal is temporarily  unable
to exercise, perform and discharge the powers,
duties and functions of his office, by reason of
illness, absence from Sri Lanka or any other
cause, the President shall, subject to the
approval of the Constitutional Council,
appoint another Judge of the Supreme Court,
or of the Court of Appeal, as the case may be,
to act in the office of Chief Justice, or President
of the Court of Appeal, during such period.
(2) If any Judge of the Supreme Court or of
the Court of Appeal is temporarily unable to
exercise, perform and discharge the powers,
duties and functions of his office, by reason of
illness, absence from Sri Lanka or any other
cause, the President may, subject to the approval
of the Constitutional Council, appoint another
Judge to act as a Judge of the Supreme Court or
Court of Appeal, during such period.”.
     28. Article 111
D of the Constitution is hereby repealed
and the following Article substituted therefor:-
111D. (1) There shall be a Judicial Service
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the
“Commission”) consisting of the Chief Justice
and the two most senior Judges of the Supreme
Amendment of
Article 107 of
the Constitution.
Replacement of
Article 109 of
the Constitution.
“Acting
appointments.
Amendment of
Article 111
D of
the Constitution.
”Constitution
of the
Judicial
Service
Commission.

<!-- page 35 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution34
Court appointed by the President, subject to
the  approval of the Constitutional Council.
 (2) Where the Chief Justice and the two
most Senior Judges of the Supreme Court are
Judges who have not had any judicial
experience serving as a Judge of a Court of
First Instance, the Commission shall consist of
the Chief Justice, the senior most Judge of the
Supreme Court and the next most senior Judge
of such Court, who has had  experience as a
Judge of a Court of First Instance.
(3) The Chief Justice shall be the Chairman
of the Commission.”.
29. Article 111
E of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraphs (5) and (6) of that Article and the
substitution of the following paragraphs therefor:-
(5) The President may grant to any member of the
Commission leave from duties and may appoint subject to
the approval of the Constitutional Council, a person
qualified to be a member of the Commission to be a temporary
member for the period of such leave.
(6) The President may, with the approval of the
Constitutional Council, and for cause assigned, remove from
office any member of the Commission.”.
30. Article 122 of the Constitution is hereby repealed.
31. Article 123 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraph (3) of that Article.
32. Article 124 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the substitution for the words and figures “provided in
Articles 120, 121 and 122,”, of the words and figures
“provided in Articles 120 and 121”.
Amendment of
Article 111
E of
the Constitution.
Repeal of Article
122 of the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 123 of
the Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 124 of
the Constitution

<!-- page 36 -->

35Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
 33. Article 134 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the substitution for the figures “121, 122, 125,”, of the
figures “121, 125,”.
34. Article 153 of the Constitution is hereby amended
as follows:-
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article and the
substitution of the following paragraph therefor:-
“(1) There shall be an Auditor-General who shall
be a qualified Auditor, and subject to the approval
of the Constitutional Council, be appointed by the
President and  shall hold office during good
behaviour.”; and
(2) by the repeal of paragraph (4) of that Article, and
the substitution of the following paragraph
therefor:-
“(4) Whenever the Auditor-General is unable to
discharge functions of his office, the President may,
subject to the approval of the Constitutional
Council, appoint a person to act in the place of the
Auditor-General.”
35. The following new Articles are hereby inserted
immediately after Article 153, and shall have effect as Article
153
A, 153B, 153C, 153D, 153E, 153F, 153G and 153 H of the
Constitution:-
153A. (1) There shall be an Audit Service
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as
“Commission”), which shall consist of the
Auditor-General who shall be the Chairman of
the Commission, and the following members
appointed by the President on the
recommendation of the Constitutional
Council:-
(a) two  retired officers of the Auditor-
General’s Department, who have
Amendment of
Article 134 of
the Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 153 of
the Constitution.
Insertion of new
Articles 153
A,
153B, 153 C,
153D, 153 E,
153F, 153 G and
153H in the
Constitution.“Constitution
of the Audit
Service
Commission.

<!-- page 37 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution36
held  office as a Deputy Auditor-
General or above;
(b) a retired judge of the Supreme Court,
Court of Appeal or the High Court
of Sri Lanka; and
(c) a retired Class I officer of the Sri
Lanka Administrative Service.
 (2) (a) A person appointed as a member of
the Commission shall hold office for  three
years, unless he,–
(i) earlier resigns from his office, by
letter addressed to the President;
(ii) is removed from office as hereinafter
provided;  or
(iii) becomes a Member of Parliament or
a member of a Provincial Council or
any local authority.
 (b) A person appointed as a member of the
Commission shall be eligible to be appointed
for a further term of office, on the
recommendation of the Constitutional
Council.
(3) The President may for cause assigned
and with the approval of the Constitutional
Council, remove from office any person
appointed as a member of the Commission
under paragraph (1).
(4) The Chairman and the members of the
Commission shall be paid such allowances as
are determined by Parliament. Such allowances
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund and

<!-- page 38 -->

37Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
shall not be diminished during the term of
office of the Chairman or members.
(5) The Chairman and the members of the
Commission shall be deemed to be public
servants within the meaning and for the
purposes of Chapter IX of the Penal Code.
(6) There shall be a Secretary to the
Commission who shall be appointed by the
Commission.
153
B. (1) The quorum for any meeting of
the Commission shall be three members of the
Commission.
(2) Parliament shall, subject to paragraph
(1), provide by law for meetings of the
Commission, the establishment of the Sri
Lanka State Audit Service and such other
matters connected with and incidental thereto.
153
C. (1) The power of appointment,
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal of the members belonging to the Sri
Lanka State Audit Service, shall be vested in
the Commission.
(2)  The Commission shall also   exercise,
perform and discharge the following powers,
duties and  functions:-
(a) make rules pertaining to schemes of
recruitment, the appointment,
transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal of the members belonging
to the Sri Lanka State Audit Service,
subject to any policy determined by
the Cabinet of Ministers pertaining
to the same;
Meeting of
the
Commission.
Powers and
Functions of
the
Commission.

<!-- page 39 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution38
(b) prepare annual estimates of the
National Audit Office established by
law; and
(c) exercise, perform and discharge such
other powers, duties and functions as
may be provided for by law.
(3)  The Commission shall cause the rules
made under paragraph (2) to be published in
the Gazette.
(4) Every such rule shall come into
operation on the date of such publication or
on such later date as may be specified in such
rules.
(5) Every such rule shall, within three
months of such publication in the Gazette be
brought before Parliament for approval. Any
rule which is not so approved shall be deemed
to be rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done therunder.
153
D. (1) A person who otherwise than in
the course of his duty, directly or indirectly,
by himself or through any other person, in
any manner whatsoever, influences or
attempts to influence any decision of the
Commission, any member thereof or any
officer of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Influencing
or attempting
to influence
decision of
the
Commission
or any
officer of the
Sri Lanka
State Audit
Service, to be
an offence.

<!-- page 40 -->

39Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(2)  Every High Court established under
Article 154 P of the Constitution shall have
jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter
referred to in paragraph (1).
153
E. Subject to the jurisdiction conferred
on the Supreme Court under Article 126 and to
the powers granted to the Administrative
Appeals Tribunal under Article 153
G, no court
or tribunal shall have the power or jurisdiction
to inquire into, pronounce upon or in any manner
whatsoever call in question any order or decision
made by the Commission, in pursuance of any
function assigned on such Commission under
this Chapter or under any law.
153
F. The costs and expenses of the
Commission shall be a charge on the
Consolidated Fund.
 153
G. Any officer of the Sri Lanka State
Audit Service who is aggrieved by any order
relating to the appointment, promotion or
transfer of  such officer or any order on a
disciplinary matter or dismissal made by the
Commission, in respect of such officer, may
appeal therefrom to the Administrative
Appeals Tribunal established under Article 59,
which shall have the power to alter, vary,
rescind or confirm any order or decision made
by the Commission.
153
H. The Commission shall be responsible
and answerable to Parliament in accordance
with the provisions of the Standing Orders of
Parliament for the discharge of its functions
and shall forward to Parliament in each
calendar year a report of its activities in such
year.”.
Immunity
from legal
proceedings.
Costs and
expenses.
Appeals to
the
Administrative
Appeals
Tribunal.
Commission
to be
answerable to
Parliament.

<!-- page 41 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution40
36. Article 154 of the Constitution is hereby amended
as follows:-
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article and
the substitution of the following paragraph
therefor:-
“(1) The Auditor-General shall audit all
Departments of the Government, the  Office of the
Secretary to the President, the Office of the
Secretary to the Prime Minister, the Offices of the
Cabinet of Ministers, the Judicial Services
Commission, the Constitutional Council,  the
Commissions referred to in the Schedule to Article
41
B, the Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration, the Secretary-General of Parliament,
local authorities, public corporations, business and
other undertakings vested in the Government under
any written law and companies registered or
deemed to be registered under the Companies Act,
No. 7 of  2007 in which the Government or a public
corporation or local authority holds fifty per centum
or more of the shares of that company including the
accounts thereof.”;
(2) in paragraph (2) of that Article, by the substitution
for the words “such public corporation or business
or other undertaking”, wherever those words appear
in that paragraph, of the words “such public
corporation, business or other undertaking or a
company referred to in paragraph (1)”;
(3) in sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph (5) of that Article,
by the substitution for the words “any public
corporation, or business or other undertaking”,
wherever those words appear in that paragraph, of
the words “any public corporation, business or
other undertaking or a company referred to in
paragraph (1)”; and
Amendment of
Article 154 of
the
Constitution.

<!-- page 42 -->

41Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(4) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (8) of
that Article, of the following new paragraph:–
“(9) The provisions of sub-paragraph ( a) of
paragraph (8) shall apply to the Auditor-General
appointed under Article 153(1).”.
   37. Article 154
R of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the repeal of sub-paragraph
(c)  of that paragraph, and the substitution of the following
paragraph therefor:-
“(c) three other members appointed by the President
on the recommendation of the Constitutional Council,
to represent the three major communities, each of whom
shall be a person who has distinguished himself or held
high office, in the field of finance, law, administration,
business or learning”.
38. Article 155
A of the Constitution is hereby amended
as follows:-
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article and
the substitution of the following paragraph
therefor:-
“(1) There shall be a National Police
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the
“Commission”) consisting of seven members
appointed by the President on the recommendation
of the Constitutional Council, of whom at least one
member shall be a retired police officer who has
held office as a Deputy Inspector-General of Police
or above. The Constitutional Council may in
making its recommendation, consult the Public
Service Commission. The President shall on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council
appoint one member as the Chairman.”: and
Amendment of
Article 154
R of
the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 155
A of
the
Constitution.

<!-- page 43 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution42
(2) by the repeal of paragraph (4) of that Article and
the substitution of the following paragraph
therefor:-
“(4) Every member of the Commission shall
hold office for a period of three years from the date
of appointment, unless such member becomes
subject to any disqualification under paragraph (2)
or earlier resigns from office by writing addressed
to the President or is removed from office by the
President for reasons assigned and with the approval
of the Constitutional Council or is convicted by a
Court of law of any offence involving moral
turpitude or if a resolution for the imposition of
civic disability upon such member has been passed
in terms of Article 81 or is deemed to have vacated
his office under paragraph (6) of this Article.”.
 39. Article 155
B of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the addition at the end of that Article, of the following
new paragraph:-
“(5) The Inspector-General of Police shall be entitled
to be present at meetings of the Commission, except where
any matter relating to him is being considered.  He shall
have no right to vote at such meetings.”.
40. Article 155
C of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the
words “under paragraph (1) of Article 126,”, of the words
“under Article 126 and the powers granted to the
Administrative Appeals Tribunal under Article 155
L,”.
41. Article 155F of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article by the substitution for the
words “any decision of the Commission or a Committee, or
to so influence any member of the Commission or
Committee,”, of the words “any decision of the Commission
or a Committee or any police officer to whom the Commission
Amendment of
Article 155
B of
the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 155C of
the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 155
F of
the
Constitution.

<!-- page 44 -->

43Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
has delegated any power under this Chapter or to so influence
any member of the Commission or a  Committee or any
police officer to whom any  power has been delegated”.
 42. Article  155 FF of  the  Constitution  is  hereby
repealed.
43. The following Articles are hereby inserted
immediately after Article 155FFF and shall have the effect as
Articles, 155G, 155H, 155J, 155K and 155L  respectively, of
the Constitution:-
155G. (1) ( a) The appointment, promotion
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of
police officers other than the Inspector-General
of Police, shall be vested in the Commission.
The Commission shall exercise its powers of
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal in consultation with the Inspector-
General of Police.
(b) The Commission shall not in the
exercise of its powers under this Article,
derogate from the powers and functions
assigned to the Provincial Police Service
Commissions as and when such Commissions
are established under Chapter XVlIA of the
Constitution.
(2) The Commission shall establish
procedures to entertain and investigate public
complaints and complaints of any aggrieved
person made against a police officer or the
police service, and provide redress as provided
by law. In the event of the Commission
providing redress, the Commission shall
forthwith inform the Inspector-General of
Police.
Repeal of Article
155FF of the
Constitution.
Insertion of new
Articles 155 G,
155H, 155 J,
155K and 155 L
of the
Constitution.
“Powers of
the
Commission.

<!-- page 45 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution44
(3) The Commission shall, in consultation
with the Inspector-General of Police, provide
for and determine all matters regarding police
officers, including:-
(a) the formulation of schemes of
recruitment, promotion and transfers,
subject to any policy determined by the
Cabinet of Ministers pertaining to the
same;
(b) training and the improvement of the
efficiency and independence of the
police service;
(c) the nature and type of the arms,
ammunition and other equipment
necessary for the use of the National
Division and the Provincial Divisions;
and
(d) codes of conduct and disciplinary
procedures.
(4) The Commission shall exercise all
such powers and discharge and perform all such
functions and duties as are vested in it under
Appendix I of List I contained in the Ninth
Schedule to the Constitution.
155H. (1) The Commission may delegate
to a Committee of the Commission (not
consisting of members of the Commission) as
shall be nominated by the Commission, the
powers of appointment, promotion, transfer,
disciplinary control and dismissal of such
categories of police officers as are specified by
the Commission.
Delegation of
certain
powers of the
Commission
to  a
Committee.

<!-- page 46 -->

45Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(2) The Commission shall cause to be
published in the Gazette, the appointment of
any such Committee.
 (3) The procedure and quorum for meetings
of a Committee nominated under paragraph
(1) shall be according to rules made by the
Commission. The Commission shall cause such
rules to be published in the Gazette.
155
J. (1) The Commission may, subject to
such conditions and procedures as may be
prescribed by the Commission, delegate to the
Inspector-General of Police or in consultation
with the Inspector-General of Police to any
Police Officer, its powers of appointment,
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal of any category of police officers.
(2) The Commission shall cause any such
delegation to be published in the Gazette.
155
K. (1)Where the Commission has
delegated under Article 155J to any police
officer its powers of appointment, promotion,
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of
any category of police officers, the Inspector-
General of Police shall have a right of appeal
to the Commission against any order made by
such Police officer in the exercise of his
delegated powers.
(2) A police officer aggrieved by any order
relating to promotion, transfer or any order on
a disciplinary matter or dismissal made by the
Inspector-General of Police or a Committee or
a Police Officer referred to in Article 155
H and
155J in respect of such officer may, appeal to
the Commission against such order in
Delegation of
certain
functions by
the
Commission.
Right of
Appeal.

<!-- page 47 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution46
accordance with rules made by the Commission
from time to time regulating the procedure and
the period fixed for the making and hearing of
an appeal by the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall have the power
to alter, vary, rescind or confirm such order
upon an appeal made under paragraph (1) or
paragraph (2), or to give directions in relation
thereto or to order such further or other inquiry,
as to the Commission shall deem fit.
(4) The Commission shall from time to time
cause to be published in the Gazette, rules made
by it under paragraph (2) of this Article.
(5) Upon any delegation of its powers to the
Inspector-General of Police or a Committee or
police officer under Article 155
H and 155J, the
Commission shall not, whilst such delegation
is in force, exercise, perform or discharge its
powers, duties or functions in respect of the
categories of police officers in respect of which
such delegation is made, subject to the right of
appeal hereinbefore provided.
155
L. Any police officer aggrieved by any
order relating to promotion, transfer, or any
order on a disciplinary matter or dismissal made
by the Commission, in respect of such officer,
may appeal therefrom to the Administrative
Appeals Tribunal established under Article 59,
which shall have the power to alter, vary,
rescind or confirm any order or decision made
by the Commission.”.
Appeals to
Administrative
Appeals
Tribunal.

<!-- page 48 -->

47Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
44. Article 155M is hereby repealed and the following
Article substituted therefor:-
155M. Until the Commission otherwise
provides, all rules, regulations and procedures
relating to the Police Force as are in force on
the date of the coming into operation of this
Article, shall continue to be operative and in
force.”.
    45. Article 156 of the Constitution is hereby amended
as follows:-
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (2) of that Article and
the substitution of the following paragraph
therefor:-
“(2) The Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration (Ombudsman) shall, subject to the
approval of the Constitutional Council, be
appointed by the President and shall hold office
during good behaviour.”; and
(2) by the repeal of paragraph (5) of that Article and
the substitution of the following paragraph
therefor:-
“(5) Whenever the Parliamentary
Commissioner for Administration is unable to
perform or discharge the duties and functions of his
office, the President shall, subject to the approval
of the Constitutional Council, appoint a person to
act in his place.”.
46. The following new Chapters are hereby inserted
immediately after Chapter XIX and shall have effect as
Chapters XIXA and XIXB respectively, of the Constitution:-
Replacement of
Article 155 M of
the
Constitution.
Amendment of
Article 156 of
the
Constitution.
Insertion of new
Chapter XIXA
and XIXB in the
Constitution.
“Saving of
existing rules
and
regulations.

<!-- page 49 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution48
“CHAPTER XIXA
COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS
OF BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION
     1 5 6 A. (1) Parliament shall by law
provide for the establishment of a Commission
to investigate allegations of bribery or
corruption. Such law shall provide for–
(a) the appointment of the members of the
Commission by the President on the
recommendation of the Constitutional
Council;
(b) the powers of the Commission,
including the power to direct the
holding of a preliminary inquiry or the
making of an investigation into an
allegation of bribery or corruption,
whether of its own motion or on a
complaint made to it, and the power to
institute prosecutions for offences
under the law in force relating to
bribery or corruption;
(c) measures to implement the United
Nations Convention Against
Corruption and any other international
Convention relating to the prevention
of corruption, to which Sri Lanka is a
party.
(2) Until Parliament so provides, the
Commission to investigate Allegations of
Bribery  or  Corruption  Act, No. 19 of 1994
shall apply, subject to the modification that it
Commission
to
Investigate
Bribery or
Corruption.

<!-- page 50 -->

49Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
shall be lawful for the Commission appointed
under that Act, to inquire into, or investigate,
an allegation of bribery or corruption, whether
on its own motion or on a written complaint
made to it.
CHAPTER XIX B
NATIONAL PROCUREMENT COMMISSION
156
B. (1) There shall be a National
Procurement Commission (in this Chapter
referred to as the “Commission”) consisting of
five members appointed by the President on
the recommendation of the Constitutional
Council, of whom at least three members shall
be persons who have had proven experience in
procurement, accountancy, law or public
administration. The President shall, on the
recommendation of the Constitutional
Council, appoint one member as the Chairman
of the Commission.
(2) Every member of the Commission shall
hold office for a period of three years from the
date of appointment, unless such member
earlier resigns from office by a writing addressed
to the President or  is removed from office by
the President for causes assigned with the
approval of the Constitutional Council or is
convicted by a court of law for an offence
involving moral turpitude or is elected as a
member of Parliament or as a member of a
Provincial Council or of a local authority or if
a resolution for the imposition of a civic
disability on him is passed in terms of Article
81.
National
Procurement
Commission.

<!-- page 51 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution50
(3) The Chairman and every member of the
Commission shall be paid such allowances as
may be determined by a resolution of
Parliament. Such allowances shall be charged
on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be
diminished during the term of office of such
Chairman or the member.
156
C. (1) It shall be the function of the
Commission to formulate fair, equitable,
transparent, competitive and cost effective
procedures and guidelines, for the procurement
of goods and services,works, consultancy
services and information systems by
government institutions and cause such
guidelines to be published in the Gazette and
within three months of such publication, to be
placed before Parliament.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of
paragraph (1), it shall be the function of the
Commission to,–
(a) monitor and report to the appropriate
authorities, on whether all
procurement of goods and services,
works, consultancy services and
information systems by government
institutions are  based on procurement
plans prepared in accordance with
previously approved action plans;
(b) monitor and report to the appropriate
authorities on whether all qualified
bidders for the provision of goods and
services, works, consultancy services
and information systems by
government institutions  are afforded
an equal opportunity to participate in
Functions of
the
Commission.

<!-- page 52 -->

51Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
the bidding process for the provision
of those goods and services, works,
consultancy services and information
systems;
(c) monitor and report to the appropriate
authorities on whether the procedures
for the  selection of contractors, and
the awarding of contracts for
the provision of goods and
services,  works,  consultancy  services
and information systems to
government institutions, are fair and
transparent;
(d) report on whether members of
procurement Committees and
Technical Evaluation Committees
relating to the procurements,
appointed by government institutions
are suitably qualified; and
(e) investigate reports of procurements
made by government institutions
outside established procedures and
guidelines, and to report the officers
responsible for such procurements to
the relevant authorities for necessary
action.
156 D. (1) The Commission may, by
Notice in writing, require any person to,–
(a) attend before the Commission, to be
questioned by the Commission;
(b) produce to the Commission, any
document or thing in the possession
or control of that person and specified
in such Notice.
Powers of
the
Commission.

<!-- page 53 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution52
 (2) Every person who–
(a) fails, without reasonable cause to
appear before the Commission when
required to do so by a Notice sent to
him under paragraph (1);
(b) appears before the Commission in
compliance with such a Notice, but
refuses without reasonable cause, to
answer any questions put to him by
the Commission; or
(c) fails or refuses, without reasonable
cause, to produce any document or
thing which he was required to
produce by a Notice sent to him  under
paragraph (1),
shall be guilty of an offence and shall
on conviction be liable to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven
years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
 (3) Every High Court established under
Article 154
P of the Constitution shall have
jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter
referred to in paragraph (2).
156E. (1) The Commission shall meet as
often as may be necessary for the discharge of
its functions.
 (2) The Chairman shall preside at all
meetings of the Commission. In the absence of
the Chairman from any meeting of the
Commission,    the members present shall elect
a Chairman for that meeting, from among
themselves.
Meetings of
the
Commission.

<!-- page 54 -->

53Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(3) The quorum for any meeting of the
Commission shall be three.
(4) Decisions of the Commission shall be
by the majority vote of the members present
and voting at the meeting at which the decision
is taken, and in the event of an equality of
votes, the Chairman or member presiding at
the meeting shall have a casting vote.
(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of
this Article, the Commission may determine
the procedure with regard to its meetings and
the transaction of business at such meetings.
(6) The Commission shall have the power
to act notwithstanding any vacancy in the
membership of the Commission, and no act,
proceeding or decision of the Commission shall
be invalid or deemed to be invalid, by reason
only of such vacancy or defect in the
appointment of a member.
156
F. (1) the Commission shall appoint a
Secretary-General and such other officers as it
may  consider necessary for the proper
discharge of its functions, on such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the
Commission.
(2) All members and officers of the
Commission shall be deemed to be public
servants within the meaning, and for the
purposes of, Chapter IX of the Penal Code.
(3) No suit, prosecution or other proceeding
shall lie against any member or officer of the
Commission for any act or thing which in good
faith is done or purported to be done by him in
the performance of his duties or the discharge
of his functions, under the Constitution.
Staff of the
Commission.

<!-- page 55 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution54
156G. The expenses of the Commission
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
156 H. In this Chapter, “government
institution” includes a Ministry, a government
department, a public corporation, a local
authority, any business or other undertaking
vested in the Government and  a Company
registered or deemed to be registered under the
Companies Act, No 7 of 2007, in which the
Government, a public corporation or any local
authority holds more than fifty per centum of
the shares.”.
47. Article 170 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of the definition of “public officer” and the
substitution of the following definition therefor:-
 “public officer” means a person who holds any paid office
under the Republic other than a judicial officer, but
does not include –
(a) the President;
(b) the Prime Minister;
(c) the Speaker;
(d) a Minister;
(e) a Deputy Minister;
(f) a Member of Parliament;
(g) a member of the Constitutional Council;
(h) a  member of the Judicial Service
Commission;
Interpretation.
Expenses of
the
Commission
to be charged
on the
Consolidation
Fund.
Amendment of
Article 170 of
the
Constitution.

<!-- page 56 -->

55Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(i) a member of the Public Service Commission;
(j) a member of the Election Commission;
(k) a member of the National Police Commission;
(l) a member of the Audit Service Commission;
(m) a member of the Human Rights Commission
of Sri Lanka;
(n) a member of the Commission to Investigate
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption;
(o) a member of the Finance Commission;
(p) a member of the Delimitation Commission;
(q) a member of the National Procurement
Commission;
(r) the Secretary-General of Parliament;
(s) a  member of the staff of the Secretary-General
of Parliament;
(t) a member of the University Grants
Commission;
(u) a member of the Official Languages
Commision; and
(v) the Auditor-General.
48. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in the
event of an
inconsistency.

<!-- page 57 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution56
49. (1)   For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared
that,–
(a) the Seventh Parliament in existence on the day
preceding the date on which this Act comes into
operation, shall, unless dissolved earlier, continue
to function until April 21, 2016 and shall thereafter
stand dissolved;
(b) the persons holding office respectively, as the
President and Prime Minister on the day preceding
April 22, 2015 shall continue to hold such office
after such date, subject to the provisions of the
Constitution as amended by this Act; and
(c) every person holding office on the day preceding
the date on which  this Act comes into operation, as,–
(i) the Chief Justice;
(ii) Judges of the Supreme Court;
(iii) the members of the Judicial Service
Commission;
(iv) the President of the Court of Appeal;
(v) Judges of the Court of Appeal;
(vi) the Attorney-General;
(vii) the Auditor-General;
(viii) the Inspector-General of Police;
(ix) the Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration (Ombudsman);
(x) the Secretary-General of Parliament;
Transitional
Provisions.

<!-- page 58 -->

57Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
(xi) a judge of the High Court; or
(xii) a judicial officer, a scheduled public
officer, public officer or a police officer,
shall continue to hold such office and shall, subject
to paragraph (3) of Article 41C, continue to exercise,
perform and discharge the powers, duties and
functions of that office, under the same terms and
conditions.
 (2) Every person holding office on the day preceding the
date on which this Act comes into operation, as the Chairman
or a member of the,–
(a) Parliamentary Council;
(b) Public Service Commission;
(c) National Police Commission;
(d) Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka;
(e) Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery
or Corruption; or
(f) Finance Commission,
shall cease to hold such office with effect from the date
on which this Act comes into operation:
Provided that a person holding office on the day
preceding the date on which this Act comes into operation
as a Chairman or a member of any such Commission
referred to above may continue to exercise and discharge
powers and functions of their respective offices until such
date on which the respective Commissions are constituted
in accordance with Chapter VIIA of the Constitution.

<!-- page 59 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution58
(3) (a)  The person holding office as the Commissioner of
Elections on the day preceding the date on which this Act
comes into operation, shall continue to exercise and
discharge the powers and functions of the office of the
Commissioner of Elections as were vested in him on such
date and of the Election Commission, until an Election
Commission is constituted in terms of Article 103, and shall
from and after the date on which the Election Commission is
so constituted, cease to hold office as the Commissioner of
Elections.
(b) All suits, actions and other legal proceedings instituted
by or against the Commissioner of Elections and pending
on the day preceding the date on which the Election
Commission is constituted under Article 103, shall be deemed
with effect from the date on which the Election Commission
is constituted, to be suits, actions and other legal proceedings
instituted by or against the Election Commission, and shall
be continued and completed in the name of the Election
Commission.
(c) Any decision or order made or any ruling given by the
Commissioner of Elections under any written law prior to
the date on which the Election Commission is constituted
under Article 103, shall be deemed, with effect from the date
on which the Election Commission is constituted, to be a
decision or order made or a ruling given, by the Election
Commission, and may be enforcement accordingly.
(d) Upon the constitution of the Election Commission
under Article 103, unless the context otherwise requires,
there shall be substituted for the expressions “Commissioner
of Elections” and “Department of the Commissioner
Elections” wherever those expressions occur in the
Constitution and in any written law or in any contract,
agreement or other document, of the expression “Election
Commission”.

<!-- page 60 -->

59Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
 (4)  All matters relating to,–
(a) the appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary
control and dismissal of police officers; and
(b) appeals by police officers to the Public Service
Commission,
pending before the Public Service Commission on the
day preceding the date of on which this Act comes into
operation shall, with effect from that date, stand transferred
to the National Police Commission established by Article
155A and shall be determined by the National Police
Commission accordingly.
(5) All matters relating to the appointment, promotion,
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of members of
the Sri Lanka State Audit Service and pending before the
Public Service Commission on the day preceding the date
of on which this Act comes into operation shall, with effect
from that date, stand transferred to the Audit Service
Commission established by Article 153A and shall be
determined by the Audit Service Commission accordingly.
 50. During the period commencing on the date on
which this Act comes into operation (other than the
provisions of section 9,  in so far as it relates to paragraph (1)
of Article 46 and the provisions of sections 15, 28, 29, 30
and 31) and ending on the date on which the next General
Election of the Members of Parliament is concluded,:-
(a) the President may, with the concurrence of the Prime
Minister, assign to himself any subject or function
and may, with like concurrence, determine the
Ministries to be in his charge.
Special
provisions
relating to the
period
commencing on
the date on
which certain
Articles comes
into force.

<!-- page 61 -->

Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution60
President in
office to be in
charge of certain
subjects and
functions.
(b) the Cabinet of Ministers functioning immediately
prior to the dissolution of the Seventh Parliament
shall, notwithstanding such dissolution, continue
to function and shall cease to function upon the
conclusion of the General Election and accordingly,
the Prime Minister, Ministers of the Cabinet of
Ministers, Ministers who are not members of the
Cabinet of Ministers and Deputy Ministers shall
continue to function until the conclusion of the
General Election unless they cease to hold office as
porvided in sub-paragraph ( a) of paragraph (2) of
Article 46 or sub-paragraph (a) or (b) of paragraph
(3) of Article 46.
    51. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Constitution, the person holding office as President on the
date of commencement of this Act, so long as he holds the
Office of  President may assign to himself the subjects and
functions of Defence, Mahaweli Development and
Environment and determine the Ministries to be in his charge
for that purpose and accordingly, any reference in any written
law to the Minister to whom such subject or function is
assigned, shall be read and construed as a reference to the
President.

<!-- page 62 -->

61Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .