

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
989
989
wxl 1"610 - 2009 cQ,s 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'07'10
No. 1,610 – FRIDAY , JULY 10, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 992
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1007
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th July, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd July,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
990
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
991
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
992
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled  to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District  Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th August, 2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No.234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
10th June, 2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for Address to which
Secretary's Division which applications are called applications should be sent
Badulla Uwa Paranagama Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/General) District/Secretary/Addi. Registrar
of Udukinda Division and Births and Deaths of General, District
Bambarapa Division. Secretariat, Badulla.
07-167
MINISTRY  OF  RURAL  INDUSTRIES  AND  SELF-EMPLOYMENT  PROMOTION
Post of Videographer
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Post of Videographer at the Ministry of Rural Industries and Self-employment Promotion from Sr i
Lankans who possess the following qualifications. Prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own applications accordin g to the
specimen form of application given below and send them by registered post so as to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Rural Industries and
Self Employment Promotion, No. 780, Maradana Road, Colombo 10 on or before July 31st, 2009. The top left hand corner of the
envelope enclosing the application should be clearly marked "Applications for the Post of Videographer".
01. Scale of Salary
01.1 The Scale of Salary applicable to the post in terms of P. A. Circular No. 06/2006 (IV) - MT -1, 2006 - A) is
Rs. 14,425-10x145-11x170-6x240-14x320-23,665 per mensum.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
993
02. Eligibility :
All applicants,
02.1 Should be of excellent moral character and physically sound.
02.2 Should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
02.3 Should be not less than 18 years of age and not be more than 45 years of age on 31st July, 2009, (The upper age limit
will not apply to those who are already in Public Service/Provincial Public Service).
03. Academic Qualifications :
03.1 All applicants should have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in 6 subjects in
not more than two sittings with credit passes in 4 subjects including science, mathematics and language, and should have
obtained a Diploma in Photography from a recognized University or Technical College or a Vocational Institute recognized
by the government or should have followed a course of training in photography of (one year full time, or two year part
time) conducted by any other institute of vocational studies recognized by the government and hold a certificate to that
effect.
04. Professional and other Qualifications  :
04.1. Should have experience of five years as a photographer. (Should be supported by documentary evidence).
05. Method of Recruitment :
05.1 Selection of candidates will be by a formal interview and a practical test. A candidate who has obtained the highest
aggregate marks of both tests with a minimum of 40 marks in each test will be selected for the post.
05.2 Appointment to this post is made by the Secretary to the Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Employment promotion.
06. Conditions of Service :
06.1 An officer appointed to the Post is required to pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination within three years from the date
of appointment. (The syllabus for this examination is given in Appendix I).
06.2 The post is permanent and pensionable and appointee to the post will be required to contribute to the Widows' and
Orphans/Widowers and Orphans' Pensions Fund.
06.3 Selected Candidate will be required to comply with the rules and regulations of the Public Service Commission, the
provisions of the Establishment Code, Financial Regulations any other rules and regulations that may be issued by the
Government from time to time.
06.4 The appointment will be on probation for a period of 3 years from the date of appointment. If an officer holding a
permanent appointment under the government, is selected for he/she will be appointed in the first instance to act in the
post.
06.5 An officer who has entered the public service is required to acquire in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 09/
2007 of 28.05.2007 proficiency in the official language in addition to the official language in which he/she entered the
public service within a period of five years from the date of appointment.
07. Candidates who are already employed in a Government Department must forward their applications through the Head of
Department in which they are serving at present.
08. Applications will not be acknowledged. Applications which are not in conformity with this notification in all respects will
be rejected.
N
IHAL SOMAWEERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Employment Promotion.
Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Employment Promotion,
No. 780, Maradara Road,
Colombo 10,
24th June, 2009.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
994
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
POST OF VIDEOGRAPHER, MINISTRY OF RURAL INDUSTRIES AND SELF EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION
01. (i) Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :———.
(ii) Name in Full : Mr. / Mrs. /Miss :———.
02. Address :–
(i) Residential Address:———.
(ii) Official Address (if employed in Public Service) :———.
03. Date of Birth :–
(i) Year :———, Month :———, Date :———.
(ii) Age as at 31.07.2009 :
Years  :———, Months :———, Days :———.
04. N. I. C. No.  :———.
05. Nationality :———.
06. Sex :———.
07. (i) Educational Qualifications :———.
(ii) Professional Qualifications :———.
(iii) Experience :———.
08. Have you ever been dismissed from the Public Service or been treated as having vacated your post :———.
09. (i) Have you ever been convicted of an offence by a Court of Law :———.
(ii) If so, give details :———.
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any of the
particulars furnished herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered before selection
and, to dismissal without any compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the appointment.
—––––——,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
If the applicant is in the Public Service :
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
1. I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… is an employee of this Department. In the event of his/her selection for appointment
he/she can/cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Name :———.
Designation :———.
Department :———.
(Official Stamp)
Date :———.
APPENDIX - 1
Syllabus for the Efficiency Bar Examination
The Efficency Bar Examination will consist of two question papers.
(i) The question paper on Establishment Code and Financial Regulation will be of two hours duration. (100 marks)
01. The Establishment Code - Following Chapters : II, III, IV, V , VIII, XII, XIII, XIV , XIX, XLVII, XLVIII
02. Financial Regulations Chapters: I, III

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
995
(ii) Knowledge of subject Area (Time 01 hour - 100 Marks)
- Knowledge of Types of Cameras
- Knowledge of Camera Lenses
- Knowledge of Types Camera Angles
- Photo Journalism - Techniques of Videoing
- Documentary - Videoing
- Responsibilities of a videographer in the employment of a Ministry
- Knowledge of measures for the safety of the Camera
- Knowledge of methods of Editing
- Knowledge of Editing Equipments
- Knowledge of Method of Non-Linie Editing
- Elementary Theories of Videography and Photography.
In order to qualify for a pass at the Efficiency Bar Examination a candidate should attain a minimum of 40 Marks in each subject
at the Examination, No exemption from the requirement of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination will be granted on grounds of age.
07-261/1
MINISTRY  OF  RURAL  INDUSTRIES  AND  SELF-
EMPLOYMENT  PROMOTION
Post of Video Camera Assistant
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Video Camera Assistant
at the Ministry of Rural Industries and Self-employment Promotion
from Sri Lankans who possess the following qualifications.
Prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own applications
according to the specimen form of application given below and
send them by registered post so as to reach the Secretary, Ministry
of Rural Industries & Self Employment Promotion, No. 780,
Maradana Road, Colombo 10, on or before July31st 2009. The top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application should be
clearly marked “Applications for the Post of Video Camera
Assistant”
01. Scale of Salary :
01.1 The Scale of Salary applicable to the post in terms
of P. A. Circular No. 06/2006 (IV), (PL-01-2006 - A)
is Rs. 11,730-10x120-10x130-10x145-12x160-
Rs. 17,600.
02. Eligibility :
All applicants,
02.1 Should be of excellent moral character and physically
sound,
02.2 Should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
02.3 Should be not less than 18 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age on 31st July, 2009, (The upper
age limit will not apply to those who are already in
Public Service/Provincial Public Service).
03. Academic Qualification :
03.1 All applicants should have passed the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination
in 6 subjects in not more than two sittings with credit
passes in 2 subjects.
04. Professional and Other Qualifications  :
04.1. Should have experience as a photographer. (Should be
supported by documentary evidence)
05. Method of Recruitment :
05.1 Selection of candidates will be by a formal interview
and a practical test. A candidate who has obtained the
highest aggregate marks of both tests with a minimum
of 40 marks in each test will be selected for the post.
05.2 Appointment to this post is made by the Secretary to
the Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Employment
promotion.
06. Conditions of Service :
06.1 An officer appointed to the Post is required to pass
the first Efficiency Bar Examination within three years
from the date of appointment. (The syllabus for this
examination is given in Appendix I).
06.2 The post is permanent and pensionable and appointee
to the post will be required to contribute to the Widows'
and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans' Pensions Fund.
06.3 Selected Candidate will be required to comply with the
rules and regulations of the Public Service Commission,
the provisions of the Establishment Code, Financial
Regulations any other rules and regulations that may
be issued by the Government from time to time.
06.4 The appointment will be on probation for a period of
3 years from the date of appointment. If an officer

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
996
holding a permanent appointment under the government
is selected for appointment he/she will be appointed in
the first instance to act in the post.
06.5 An officer who has entered the public service is required
to acquire in terms of Public Administration Circular
No. 09/2007 of 28.05.2007 proficiency in the official
language in addition to the official language in which
he/she entered the public service within a period of
five years from the date of appointment.
07. Candidates who are already employed in a Government
Department must forward their applications through the
Head of Department in which they are serving at present.
08. Applications will not be acknowledged. Applications which
are not in conformity with this notification in all respects
will be rejected.
N
IHAL SOMAWEERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Rural Industries and
Self Employment Promotion.
Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Employment Promotion ;
No. 780, Maradara Road,
Colombo 10.
24th June, 2009.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
POST OF VIDEO CAMERA ASSISTANT, MINISTRY OF RURAL INDUSTRIES AND
SELF EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION
01. (i) Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :———.
(ii) Name in Full : Mr. / Mrs. /Miss. :———.
02. Address :———.
(i) Residential Address :———.
(ii) Of ficial Address (if employed in Public Service) :——.
03. Date of Birth :———.
(i) Year :———, Month :———, Date :———.
(ii) Age as at 31.07.2009 :———.
Years :———, Months :———, Days :———.
04. N. I. C. No. :———.
05. Nationality :———.
06. Sex :———.
07. (i) Educational Qualifications :———.
(ii) Professional Qualifications :———.
(iii) Experience :———.
08. Have you ever been dismissed from the Public Service or been
treated as having vacated your post :———.
09. (i) Have you ever been convicted of an offence by a Court of
Law :———.
(ii) If so, give details :———.
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any of the
particulars furnished herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am
liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered before
selection and, to dismissal without any compensation if the
inaccuracy is discovered after the appointment.
———––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
If the applicant is in the Public Service :
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
1. I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………… is an employee of
this Department. In the event of his/her selection for
appointment he/she can/cannot be released from service.
———––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Name :———;
Designation :———;
Department :———;
(Official Stamp)
Date :———.
07-261/2
MINISTRY  OF  RURAL  INDUSTRIES  AND  SELF-
EMPLOYMENT  PROMOTION
Post of Photographer
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Photographer at the
Ministry of Rural Industries and Self-employment Promotion from
Sri Lankans who possess the following qualifications. Prospective
candidates are advised to prepare their own applications according
to the specimen form of application given below and send them by
registered post so as to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Rural
Industries & Self Employment Promotion, No. 780, Maradana Road,
Colombo 10, on or before July 31st 2009. The top left hand corner
of the envelope enclosing the application should be clearly marked
“Applications for the Post of Photographer.”
01. Scale of Salary :
01.1 The Scale of Salary applicable to the post in terms of
P. A. Circular No. 06/2006 (IV) - MT -1, 2006 - A) -
is Rs. 14,425-16x145-11x170-6x240-14x320-
Rs. 23,665 per mensum.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
997
02. Eligibility :
All applicants –
02.1 Should be of excellent moral character and physically
sound,
02.2 Should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
02.3 Should be not less than 18 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age on 31st July, 2009, (The upper
age limit will not apply to those who are already in
Public Service/Provincial Public Service).
03. Academic Qualification :
03.1 All applicants should have passed the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination
in 6 subjects in not more than two sittings with credit
passes in 4 subjects including Science, Mathematics
and language, and should have obtained a Diploma in
Photography from a recognized university or
Technical college or a vocational Institute recognized
by the government or should have followed a course
of training in photography of (one year full time, or
two year part time) conducted by any other institute
of vocational studies recognized by the government
and hold a certificate to that effect.
04. Professional and Other Qualifications  :
04.1. Should have experience of five years as a photographer.
(Should be supported by documentary evidence)
05. Method of Recruitment :
05.1 Selection of candidates will be by a formal interview
and a practical test. A candidate who has obtained the
highest aggregate marks of both tests with a minimum
of 40 marks in each test will be selected for the post.
05.2 Appointment to this post is made by the Secretary to
the Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Employment
promotion.
06. Conditions of Service :
06.1 An officer appointed to the Post is required to pass
the first Efficiency Bar Examination within three years
from the date of appointment. (The syllabus for this
examination is given in Appendix I).
06.2 The post is permanent and pensionable and appointee
to the post will be required to contribute to the
Widows' and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans'
Pensions Fund.
06.3 Selected Candidate will be required to comply with
the rules and regulations of the Public Service
Commission, the provisions of the Establishment
Code, Financial Regulations any other rules and
regulations that may be issued by the Government
from time to time.
06.4 The appointment will be on probation for a period of
3 years from the date of appointment. If an officer
holding a permanent appointment under the
government is selected for appointment he/she will be
appointed in the first instance to act in the post.
06.5 An officer who has entered the public service is required
to acquire in terms of Public Administration Circular
No. 09/2007 of 28.05.2007 proficiency in the official
language in addition to the official language in which
he/she entered the public service within a period of
five years from the date of appointment.
07. Candidates who are already employed in a Government
Department must forward their applications through the
Head of Department in which they are serving at present.
08. Applications will not be acknowledged. Applications which
are not in conformity with this notification in all respects
will be rejected.
N
IHAL SOMAWEERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Rural Industries and
Self Employment Promotion.
Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Employment Promotion
No. 780, Maradara Road,
Colombo 10.
24th June, 2009.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
P
OST OF PHOTOGRAPHER, MINISTRY OF RURAL INDUSTRIES AND SELF
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION
01. (i) Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––.
(ii) Name in Full : Mr. / Mrs. /Miss. :–––––––––.
02. Address :–––––––––.
(i) Residential Address :–––––––––.
(ii) Of ficial Address (if employed in Public Service) :––––––.
03. Date of Birth :–––––––––.
(i) Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 31.07.2009 :
Years :–––––––,  Months :–––––––, Days :––––––.
04. N. I. C. No. :–––––––––.
05. Nationality :–––––––––.
06. Sex :–––––––––.
07. (i) Educational Qualifications :–––––––––.
(ii) Professional Qualifications :
(iii) Experience : Should be supported
by photostat copies of
original certificates.
 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
998
08. Have you ever been dismissed from the Public Service or been
treated as having vacated your post :
09. (i) Have you ever been convicted of an offence by a Court of
Law :
(ii) If so, give details :
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any of the
particulars furnished herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am
liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered before
selection and, to dismissal without any compensation if the
inaccuracy is discovered after the appointment.
–––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
If the applicant is in the Public Service :
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
1. I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… is an employee of
this Department. In the event of his/her selection for appointment
he/she can/cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Name :–––––––––,
Designation :–––––––––,
Department :–––––––––,
(Official Stamp)
Date :–––––––––.
APPENDIX - 1
Syllabus for the Efficiency Bar Examination
The Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of two papers.
(i) The paper on Establishment Code and Financial Regulation
will be of two hours duration. (100 marks)
01. The Establishment Code - Following Chapters : II, III,
IV , V , VIII, XII, XIII, XIV , XIX, XLVII, XLVIII
02. Financial Regulations Chapters: I, III
(ii) Knowledge of subjects Area (Time 01 hour - 100 Marks)
- Knowledge of Types of Cameras
- Knowledge of Camera Angles
- Knowledge of Camera Lenses
- Knowledge of Photo Journalism
- Knowledge of Cameras with Special Features
- Knowledge of the responsibilities of a cameraman
employed by a Ministry
- Knowledge of measures for the safety of the camera
SRI   LANKA   POLICE   DEPARTMENT
Vacancies in the Post of Woman Police Constable
Special Task Forse
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Woman Police Constable Special Task Force in the Sri
Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below, should be sent to Director (Recruitment),
Recruiting Office, 2nd Floor, New Secretariat Building, Colombo -
01. The applications should be sent by registered post to the above
mentioned address to reach  on or before 10th September, 2009 and
the top left hand corner of the envelop enclsoing applications should
be marked Post of Police Constable and Police Constable Driver.
Delayed applications will be rejected and no applications will be
issued by the Sri Lanka Police Department.
3. Salary Scale :
Recruit Woman Police Constable :
Rs.171,360 - 7 x 1,740 - 10 x 2,160 -17 x 2,880 - Rs. 254,100
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances :
(a) Special arduous duty allowances :
(1) For duties in operational area Rs. 1,200
(2) For duties in non operational area Rs. 600
(b) Special arduous duty allowance :
(1) For duties in operational area Rs. 10,500
(2) For duties in non operational area Rs. 3,500
(a) Free Transport facilities ;
(b) Free Medical facilities to officers ;
(Financial assistance can be obtianed for medical
treatement even in a foreign country)
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge ;
(d) Facilities to improve skill and talents in sports ;
(e) Traveling expense for duty and money will be granted
as rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
- Knowledge of photographic printing
- Enlisting Co-operation of the people in taking photographs
- In order to qualify for a pass at the Efficiency Examination,
a candidate should obtain a minimum of 40 marks in each
subject at the examination.
- No exemption from the requirement of passing the
Efficiency Bar Examination will be granted on grounds of
age.
07-261/3

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
999
4. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age limits .— Recruit Woman Police Constable
The age should be between 18 and 25 years as at closing
date as per the Gazette Notifications.
(b) Educational Qualifications :
* Recruit Police Constable
* Should have passed 06 subjects in not more than 2 sittings
including Mathematics and medium language in the G . C.
E. (O/L) Examination those who have passed on two
occasions should have passed 5 subjects on the first
occasion.
Note 01 - According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the
number of subjects passed at G . C. E. (O/L) both
passes in Science subjects number 41 and 44 will be
treated as one subject and both passes in
Mathematics number 42 and 45 will be treated as
one subject. (They can’t be considered as four
separate subjects taking into account the number of
subjects passed.).
Note 02 - Failure in the  Technical subject at Written Test of
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered as
failure  in the same subject although a pass has been
obtained for the same in the Practical test.
Note 03 - Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and Sinhala
have not been included in the stream of G . C. E.
(O/L), passes in any of these subjects will not be
computed as a pass in the G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
(c) Physical requirements :—
Height : 5 feet 2 inches (minimum)
Note : Applicants who are slightly short of the physical requirements
but fulfill the other stipulated qualifications will be eligible
at the discretion of Inspector General of Police provided
they have skills in sports or have achieved best performance
in sports at national level or they  have earned reputation for
Sri Lanka by participating in an international competition.
(d) Visual  requirements .— Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye. If the vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18 with
the other eye will be accepted. Colour vision should be
normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses will
not be eligible.
(e) Other qualifications  :
* Applicants should be ummarried
(Divorcees will be considered as married) This condition
will not apply for those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the Police Department
and for the Security Assistants.
5. Method of recruitment .— Selected applicants will have to
pass in the Basic Qualifications Test. Only those who have passed
this test can participate in the Physical Tests. That is they have to
pass the Endurance Test.
1. 1000 Meters 5 Minites 14 Seconds.
* Those who are successful in the test will be summoned for
final interview. Those who score 40% or more will be
summoned for the final Written Test.
Written test (Police Constable)
* The written Test consists of two question papers.
* An essay not less than 500 words within 45 minutes.
* General Knowledge and General Intelligence - 1 hour
6. Medical Examination .— Applicants who obtain the highest
marks with other efficiencies will have to appear for  a Medical
Examination prior to the appointment. Unsuccessful candidates
will be rejected for appointment.
7. Background Inquiries :
(a) Inquiries will be conducted on the conduct of the applicants,
close relations and friends. Applicants with bad conduct will
not be recruited.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant ineligible.
If the false information is elicited after the appointment, the
applicant will be dismissed from service.
8. Implementation of the official language policy :
* As per the circular dated 28.04.2007 of the Public
Administration on No. 07/2007 of the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs those who were appointed
to the Central Govt. Service/Provincial Public Service, in
addition to their Language of recruitment, should acquire
proficiency in other official languages within 5 years from
01.07.2007.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007, should pass the
Language Test conducted by the Official Language
Department.
* The Increment of those who fail to pass the  second official
language within 5 years from the date of appointment will be
deferred until a pass is obtained.
9. Terms of Engagement .— This Post is permanent. Appointees
come within the scope of the  Contributory Pension Fund Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to a period of probation for
three years.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1000
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereafter be made to give
effect to the language policy of the Government.
(c) They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Extablishments Code V olumes I and II, Police Disciplinary
Code and any other Orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time.
(d) Every officer will be required to pass the prescribed
Departmental tests. Those who fail to pass the prescribed
test or are found to be unfit for Police duties will be
liable for removal from the Police Service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said  rank without the permission of the
T. G. Police. However, in terms of P. G. II No. 41 dated
28.02.1973 and I. G.’s Circular No. 1952/2006 of
19.10.2006 and 09.08.2007 (Amended), it is possible to
marry showing special reasons and with permission of I.
G. Police.
(f) Application on being appointed and after the training
should serve a probationary period of three years in the
Police Department and if they wish to resign from service
before their probation is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing
to pay at the time of tendering their resignation any
amount which was incurred on uniforms etc., during on
by the Director of Police Training College. The
acceptance of resignation should confirm to the Section
4 Chapter 5 in V olume 1 of the Establishments Code
1985.
(g) Probationary Post of Woman Police Constable,
immediately after they have commenced training at the
Police Training College should affirm/swear that they
adhere to the Police Disciplinary Code in terms of the
I. G . P. Circular No. 1693/2003. Post of Police Constable
and Police Constable Driver who have been confirmed in
the post will have opportunities for promotions
according to the approved scheme of promotion of the
Police Department.
(h) They should soon after commencing the training at
Police College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to
the Public Service, in terms of the I. G. P.’s Circular
No. 1804/2004.
11. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointment to posts in the Police Service published
in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public
Administration Circular No.15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12. Applicants should annex copies of following documents to
their application. (Originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related);
(iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates of  Service experience, ( if available) ;
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
13.(a) Applications from applicants  who are already in the
Public Service/Services must be forwarded through the
Heads of their respective departments and must be
accompanied by a certificate stating that the officers can
be released, if selected.
  (b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own.
Hand writing  on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them,
together with the copies of certificates called for to the
address given in Paragraph 2 and under no circumstances
should applications be handed over personally to any
officer in the department.
14. Applications, which do not conform to the requirements,
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.—  No Travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
V ACANCIES IN THE POST OF WOMAN POLICE CONSTABLE
(SPECIAL TASK FORCE)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01.(a) Name in Full (In block letters) :———.
(As stated in the applicant’s Birth Certificate) :———.
     (b) Name with initials :———.
     (c) Applicant Rank :———.
02. National Identity Card No :———.
(Copy of N. I. C. Should be attached) :———.
03. Father’s Name in Full :———.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :———.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :———.
Province :———.
05. (a) Present address :———.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs :——.
(c) Permanent Address :———.
(d) Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs :———.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1001
06. (a) Nationality :———.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration (if by
registration attach copies of the certificate).
If you are a citizen by birth, state the  place of birth of :
(i) Applicant :———.
(ii) Applicant’s Father :———.
(iii) Applicant’s paternal grandfather:———.
(iv) Applicant’s paternal great grandfather :———.
07. Age : (as on the closing date of application given in the Gazette):
Years :———.     Months :———.  Days :———.
(Copy of birth certificate should be attached)
08. Height (Inches) :———.        Chest (inches) :———.
09. Educational Qualifications (State Examinations passed and
attach copies of certificates) :———.
10. Additional Qualifications :———.
(Copies of certificates)
11. Whether married or single :———.
12. (i) Present employment :———.
(ii) Are you a members of any armed Force :———.
13. Have you any special claims and/or Qualifications :———.
14. Give names and address of two non -related referees :
(i)  ————.
(ii) ————.
15. (a) Have your ever applied for a post in the Police Service (If
so give reference) :———.
(b) Have you served in the Police or in the Sri Lanka Reserve
Police before ? :———.
(if so under what circumstances did you leave the service?
Give details) :———.
16. (a) Are you serving in any of the  Armed Services? (if so your
application must be submitted through the respective Service
Commander) :————.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services? (if so, attach
copy of your discharge certificate) :———.
17. (a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any one of the Armed
Services? (if so, your application must be submitted through
the respective Service Commander) :———.
(b)  Have you served  as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Services? (if so attach a copy/copies of your discharge
certificate/certificates) :———.
18. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of  any offence? (if so, give
details) :———.
19. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any
offence? (if so, give details) :———.
I, hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable
for termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith
(even if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished
are found to be incorrect or false.
————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :———.
07-304
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Sub-Inspector of Police
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Sub-Inspector in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below, should be sent to Director (Recruitment)
Recruiting Office 2nd Floor, New Secretariat Building, Colombo
01. The applications should be sent by registered post to the above
mentioned address to reach on or before 10th September, 2009 and
the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing applications should
be marked Post of Sub-Inspector of Police Delayed applications
will be rejected and no applications will be issued by the Sri Lanka
Police Department.
3. Salary Scale.— Rs. 190,200 – 7 X 2,160 – 2 X 2,880 – 8 X
3,840 – 17 X 4,500 – Rs. 318,300
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances.
(a) Special arduous duty allowances
(1) For duties in operational area Rs. 1,200
(2) For duties in non operational area Rs. 600
(b) Combined allowance
(1) For duties in operational area Rs. 12,000
(2) For duties in non operational area Rs. 4,000
(a) Free Transport facilities
(b) Free Medical facilities to officers.
(Financial assistance can be obtained for medical treatment
even in a foreign country)
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(d) Facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1002
(e) Traveling expense for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
4. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age Limits.—  The age should be between 18 and 28 years
as at closing date as per the Gazette Notifications. However,
Security Assistants who are serving in the Police
Department are eligible to apply up to 30 Years on the
closing date of applications.
(b) Educational Qualifications :
* Passed the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects at
one sitting with credit passes in 04 subjects which 2
should be Medium Language and Mathematics.
* Applicant should have passed 3 subjects at one sitting
at the G .C.E. (A/L) examination.
Note 01 According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the
number of subjects passed at G .C.E. (O/L) both
passes in science subjects number 41 and 44 will be
treated as one subject and both passes in Mathematics
number 42 and 45 will be treated as one subject.
(They can’t be considered as four separate subjects
taking into account the number of subjects passed.)
Note 02 Failure in the Technical subject at Written Test of
G .C.E. (O/L) examination will be considered as failure
in the same subject although a pass has been obtained
for the same in the Practical text.
Note 03 Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and Sinhala
have not been included in the stream of G.C.E.
(O/L), passes in any of these subjects will not be
computed as a pass in the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
(c) Physical requirements :
Height 5 feet 06 inches (minimum)
Chest 32 Inches Minimum (deflated)
Note : Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided they have skills
in sports or have achieved best performance in sports
at national level or they have earned reputation for
Sri Lanka by participating in an international
competition.
(d) Visual requirements.—  Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye. If the vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18
with the other eye will be accepted. Colour vision should
be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses
will not be eligible.
(e) Other qualifications :
* Applicants should be unmarried.
(Divorcees will be considered as married) This condition
will not apply for Those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the police
Department and for the Security Assistants.
5. Method of recruitment.—  Selected applicants  will have to
pass in the Basic Qualifications Test. Only those who have passed
this test  can participate in the Physical Tests. That is they have to
pass the Endurance Test.
1. 1000 meters   3 minutes    14 seconds
* those who are successful in the test will be summoned for
final interview. Those who score 40% or more will be
summoned for the final Written Test.
* The written Test consists of two question papers.
* An essay not less than 500 words within 45 minutes.
* General knowledge and General Intelligence - 1 hour.
6. Medical Examination:  Applicants who obtain the highest
marks with other efficiencies will have to appear for a Medical
Examination prior to the appointment. Unsuccessful candidates
will be rejected for appointment.
7. Background Inquiries:
(a) Inquiries will be conducted on the conduct of the
applicant, close relations and friends. Applications with
bad conduct will not be recruited.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicant, the applicant will be
dismissed from service.
8. Implementation of the official language policy  : As per the
circular dated 28.04.2007 of the public Administration on
No. 07/2007 of the Ministry of Public Administration and Home
affairs those who were appointed to the Central Govt. Service/
Provincial Public Service, in addition to their Language of
recruitment, should acquire proficiency in other official languages
with in 5 years from 01.07.2007.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007, should pass
the language Test Conducted by the Official Language
Department.
* The increment of those who fail to pass the second official
language within 5 years from the date of appointment
will be deferred until a pass is obtained.
9. Terms of Engagement : This Post is permanent. Appointees
come within the scope of the Contributory Pension Fund Scheme.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1003
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to a period of probation for
three years.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereafter be made to give
effect to the language policy of the government.
(c) They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code V olume I and II, Police Disciplinary
Code and any other Orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time.
(d) Every officer will be required to pass the prescribed
Departmental tests. Those who fail to pass the prescribed
test or are found to be unfit for Police duties will be liable
for removal from the Police Service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of the
T. G . Police, However, in terms of P. G . II No. 41 dated
28.02.1973 and I. G .’ s circular No. 1952/2006 of
19.10.2006 and 09.08.2007 (Amended), it is possible to
marry showing special reasons and with permission of I.
G . Police.
(f) Application on being appointed and after the training
should serve a probationary period of three years in the
Police Department and if they wish to resign from service
before their probation is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing to
pay at the time of tendering their resignation, any amount
which was incurred on uniforms etc., during on by the
Director of Police Training Collage. The acceptance of
resignation should conform to the Section 4 Chapter V of
V olume I of the Establishment Code 1985.
(g) Probationary Sub Inspectors of  Police, immediately after
they have commenced training at the Police Training
College should affirm/swear that they adhere to the Police
Disciplinary Code in terms of the I. G . P. Circular
No.1693/2003.
(h) They should soon after commencing the training at Police
College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the Public
service, in terms of the I. G.P’s Circular No.1804/2004.
(i) Sub-Inspector of Police, will have the scope for
promotions in terms of the approved scheme of
promotions of the Police Department.
11. ( a) Attention is invited to the general conditions
applicable to appointment to posts in the Police service
published in the Section (IIA) of the Part 1 of this
Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12. Applicants should  annex copies of following documents to
their application. (Originals must not be forwarded)
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of Character (obtained from
persons who are not related);
(iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or
other extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates of Service experience, (if available) ;
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
13.(a) Applications from applicants who are already in the Public
service/services must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective departments and must be accompanied
by a certificate stating that the officers can be released, if
selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own.
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them,
together with the copies of certificates called for to the
address given in paragraph 2 and under no circumstances
should applications be handed over personally to any
officer in the Department.
14. Applications, which do not conform to the requirements,
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note : No Traveling or other expenses will be paid to applicants
who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
T
HE POST OF SUB-INSPECTOR OF POLICE
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (In block letters) :———.
(As stated in the applicant’s Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials :———.
(c) Applicant Rank :———.
02. National Identity Card No. :———.
(Copy of N. I. C. should be attached)
03. Father’s Name in Full :———.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :———.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :———.
Province :———.
05. (a) Present address :———.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs :——.
(c) Permanent Address :———.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1004
(d) Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs :———.
06. ( a) Nationality :———.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration
(if by registration attach copies of the certificate)
If you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth of.
(i) Applicant :———.
(ii) Applicant’s Father :———.
(iii) Applicant’s paternal grandfather :———.
(iv) Applicant’s paternal great grandfather :———.
07. Age : (as on the closing date of application given in the
Gazette ;
Years :———. Months :———. days :———.
(Copy of birth certificate should be attached)
08. Height : (Inches) :———. Chest (Inches) :———.
09. Educational Qualifications (State Examinations passed at
attach copies of certificates) :
10. Additional Qualifications :———.
(Copies of certificate)
11. Whether married or single :———.
12. (i) Present employment :———.
(ii) Are you a members of any armed Force :———.
13. Have you any special claims and/or Qualifications :———.
14. Give names and address of two non - related referees :
 (i) ———.
(ii) ———.
15. (a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Police Service (If
so give reference) :———.
(b) Have you served in the Police or in the Sri Lanka Reserve
Police before ? :———.
(if so under what circumstances did you leave the service?
Give details)
16. Are you a member of the SL Police Reserve ? If so give date
of appointment, Rank and Number Attach copy of the
Appointment Letter.
17. (a) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Service Commander) :———.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services? (If so,
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :———.
18. (a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Services?
(if so, your application must be submitted through the
respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Services?
( If so attach a Copy/Copies of your discharge certificate/
certificates) :––––––––.
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or
arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence?
(if so, give details) :———.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in
or charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any
offence? (if so, give details) :———.
I, hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable
for termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith
(even if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished
are found to be incorrect or false.
————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :———.
07-303
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
POST IN CLASS I OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNICAL
EDUCATION SERVICE
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts in Class I of the Sri Lanka
Technical Education Service in the Department of Technical Education
and Training under the Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training.
Applications, prepared as per specimen given below, should be
sent under Registered Post to reach “The Secretary, Ministry of
V ocational and Technical Training, No. 354/2, "Nipunatha Piyasa",
Narahenpita, Colombo 05”, on or before 24.07.2009. The top left
hand corner of the envelope should be marked "Posts in Class I of
the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service".
02. Terms of engagement and Conditions of Service :
(i) These posts are permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will have to contribute towards the Widow and
Orphans' pension scheme. The selected persons, if not
holding a permanent and pensionable posts in the Public
Service, will be appointed subjected to a period of three
years probation/trial, as the case may be. If an officer,
already holding a permanent and pensionable post in Public
Service is selected, his/her appointment will be on an acting
capacity for a period of one year, at the first instance.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1005
(ii) Every officer, appointed to a post will have to pass the
Efficiency Bar within a period of three years from the date
of appointment, failure to pass the Efficiency Bar within
the stipulated period will result in the deferment of
increment and the period taken in excess of the prescribed
period, will be treated as the period of deferment increment.
Further, these officers will not be eligible to apply for any
higher post in the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service
until they pass the Efficiency Bar. The Efficiency Bar will
consist of an examination in the following areas.
(a) Provision and Government regulations of the
Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Accountancy ;
(c) Educational Law, Administration and Supervision ; and
(iii) Every Officer, appointed to a post in the Sri Lanka Technical
Education Service are expected to obtain the competency
in Second Language within 05 years from the date of
appointment in accordance to the Public Administrative
Circular No. 07/2007. Failure to complete the competency
in the Second Language within the stipulated period will
result in the deferment of the increment. The Language
proficiency of these officers is, pass the Sinhala/Tamil in
G . C. E. (O/L) as a main subject (should not be a 2nd
Language or optional subject) and pass the oral test held by
the Department of Official Languages or pass the special
skills examination held by the Department of official
Languages.
03. Salary and Allowance. – The salary scale attached to these
posts will be SL-1-2006 increments will be subjected to passing
Efficiency Bar referred to in para 2 above.
Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,550 (Monthly)
will be placed in step relevant to class I Rs. 36,755.
04. Qualifications required. – Every candidate should furnish
satisfactory proof in support of the following qualifications before
01.01.2006.
4.1 Be of excellent moral character and physically sound.
4.2 Be not less than 30 years and not more than 45 years as at
the closing date for applications. (The upper age limit does
not apply to those already in Public Service/Provincial
Council Service)
4.3 (i) Should have a post graduate degree or a Post Graduate
Diploma or Equivalent qualifications ;
and
Should have completed at least one year of satisfactory
service* in the class II of the Sri Lanka technical
Education Service and should have been confirmed in
his/her post ; or
(ii) Should have a post graduate degree or a post graduate
Diploma or equivalent qualifications ; and
Should be holding post in the Ministry of V ocational
and Technical Training or in an Institution under the
Same Ministry and should be a person holding a post
on a Salary Scale SL-1 according to 06/2006 salary
circular and  be confirmed in his/her post and be receipt
of a salary not less than Rs. 30,965 per month on
01.01.2006 ; or
(iiii) Should have completed at least five years of satisfactory
service* in Class II of the Sri Lanka Technical Education
Service and should have been confirmed in his/her post.
* Satisfactory service means that all salary increments
have been earned on the due date during the last five
years and not been subject to any kind of disciplinary
punishment other than a warning.
05. Every candidate should be prepared to produce any or all of
the following documents when called upon to do so.
(a) Certificate of Birth ( N.B.– certificate of Birth issued for
the purpose of the Code of Regulations for Assisted
Schools, or the Baptismal Certificate will not be accepted).
(b) Degree Certificates or Educational Certificates.
(c) Two testimonials (One should be from the University
Tutor or the Professor).
(d) Certificates to prove professional and/or technical
qualifications.
(e) Certificates of higher examinations passed in Sinhala, Tamil
and English.
Note (1) No document or copies of documents should be
attached to the applications.
(2) Applications of candidates who fall to produce the
required documents when called upon to do so, will
not be considered.
06. Applications of candidates in Public Service should be
forwarded through their respective Heads of Department.
Applications received after the prescribed date will be considered
only when received by the Head of the Department before the closing
date and forwarded adducing valid reasons for the delay.
07. Applications and any other correspondence related thereto
should be addressed officially to the Secretary, Ministry of vocational
and Technical Training and not personally to any officer.
08. Reference in invited to General Conditions applicable to
appointment to posts in the Public Service published at the beginning
of Part I Section II"A" of this Gazette and to the Minute of the Sri
Lanka Technical Education Service, announced in Part I General of
Gazette No. 415 published on 15.08.1986 and the amendments made
thereto from time to time.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1006
09. Appointments to Class I of the Sri Lanka Technical Education
Service will be made on the results of a Viva-V oce test according to
the minute of the Sri Lanka Technical Educations Service. Marks will
be given on merit as well as on seniority.
P. H
APANGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training.
Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training,
“Nipunatha Piyasa”,
No. 354/2, Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
S
PECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(To be prepared in paper of 8 1/2" x 13 1/2")
POST IN CLASS I OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING UNDER THE
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL TECHNICAL TRAINING
01. Name (with initials) Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––.
02. Name in full :––––––––.
03. Official Addressed :––––––––.
04. Private Address and Phone No. :––––––––.
05. ( a) Whether Sri Lankan :––––––––.
(b) If so, by descent or by registration :––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
07. Age on the date closing of application :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
08. Particulars of Present Post :
(a) Post and the date appointment :––––––––.
(b) Whether permanent or temporary :––––––––.
(c) Whether pensionable or non-pensionable :––––––––.
(d) Whether confirmed in the post :––––––––.
(e) Department :––––––––.
(f) Institution/Place of Work :––––––––.
(g) Annual consolidated salary scale :––––––––.
(h) Present annual consolidated salary :––––––––.
09. Particulars of Higher Educational Qualifications (Degree/Post
Graduate Diploma/Post Graduate) :
University Degree/Post Year Subjects
Graduate Diploma
10. Particulars of Professional Qualifications :
Certificate Institution which Y ear Subjects
issued the Certificate
11. Secondary Educational Qualification :
Examination Year Subjects Grade
G .C.E. (O/L)
12. Institutions attended of for Professional Educations :
Institution Course From To
13. Previous appoinments to be stated in chronological order with
exact dates :
Post Institution From To
14. If an Officer in the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service whether
Efficiency Bar has been completed :––––––––.
If so, indicate
(i) The year of Efficiency Bar completed :––––––––.
(ii) T ype of certificate obtained for the above :––––––––.
15. Whether you have been convicted in court of law, If so give
details :––––––––.
16. If served in a Government Department or Board/Corporation in
Public Sector, state reasons for resignation from/termination of
the service :––––––––.
17. Is there any disciplinary inquiry pending against you (If so state
details in brief) :––––––––.
18. Are you free from any pecuniary embarrassment, if not state the
extent of your commitments :––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained therein are found to be false and incorrect,
I am liable to be disqualified before selection and do dismissal
without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the
appointment.
–––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––.
07–295

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1007
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
AMENDMENT
Competitive  Examination  for  the  Recruitment  of  Engineers
to  the  Sri  Lanka  Engineering  Service – 2009
THE closing date of applications called for the “Competitive Examination for the recruitment of engineers to the Sri Lanka Engi neering
Service – 2009” which published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 1,606 on 12.06.2009 is amended to
28.08.2009.
D. DISSANAY AKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
25th June, 2009.
07–339
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE -– 2009 (I)
1.0 IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service will
be held by the Commissioner-General of Examinations in the month
of October 2009 as per provisions of para 5.2 of the approved
service minute of Public Management Assistants’ Service published
in the Government Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka bearing No. 1372/23 dated 24.12.2004.
2.0 This Examination for officers in Class II of the Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa,
Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.
The list of relevant towns and town numbers are given below. The
Commissioner-General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel
any center due to insufficiency of candidates or any other reason
and decide an alternative as per the candidate’s second preference
of towns :–
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0. (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishement
imposed by the Commissioner-General of Examinations
for violation of these rules and regulations.
4.0. Eligibility.- Officers who have been appointed to posts in
Class II of Public Management Assistant’s Service are eligible to
appear for this examination.
5.0. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organization & Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on or before 10th August, 2009. The name
of the examination should be indicated at the top left hand corner of
the envelope containing the application. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected. Incomplete applications, too, will
not be accepted.
Town Town No.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1008
6.0. Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :–
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner-General of Examinations. All candidates are bound
to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the
conducting of this examination. Further, candidates will be subjected
to the punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations for violation of those rules and regulations.
7.0. Applications.- Applcations should be prepared in a paper of
A4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page. The application could be typewritten but it should be
filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised not to send more than one application or
photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 90 should be affixed for the whole examination for subsequent
sittings, and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 should be affixed if only
one subject is offered. The stamps should be duly cancelled by
placing signature of the candidate and the date. Under any
circumstances, the fee will not be refunded or transferred in respect
of any other examination.
8.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled
the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates.  If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in
hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your  possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
9.0. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0. Candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the language
medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
11.0. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
(For further details, refer to Para. 5:2 of Public Management
Assistants’ Service Minute.).
12.0. For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers
should prepare and fill the application forms in the official language.
13.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will release
the results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and the lists of names of the candidates who have passed
the exam will be published in the Government Gazette of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14.0. Examination Procedure.-  Candidates should sit for a
written examination, which will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
(01) Office systems and 100 02 Hrs. 01
Procedure
(02) Accounting Systems
100 02 Hrs. 02
adopted in the
Government Offices
Total 200
14.1 Office Systems and Procedure.- This paper is intended to
test the candidate’s knowledge of office systems adopted
in Government offices and his/her ability of practical
application of the knowledge. This paper consists of two
parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions, duration
is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03
out of 04 questions should be answered,
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
14.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government Offices.-
Candidate’s knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted
in Government office, books and records controlling
accounts and orders and instructions of the Treasury
issued in relation to that and his/her ability of practical

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1009
application of the knowledge will be tested. This paper
consists of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions, duration
is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03
out of 04 questions should be answered,
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
15.0. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final, in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARA THNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration
& Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
  & Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
24th June, 2009.
Specimen Form of Application
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE – 2009 (I)
(As per this exam notification, only the officers in Public
Management Assistant's Service of the Combined Services shall
be eligible to forward applications)
Serial No.
(For office use only)
(Indicate the name and the number Town Town No.
of the town in which you wish to sit
for the examination as per Para 2.0 1.
of the Gazette notification) 2.
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
Medium of examination
Sinhala -2
Tamil -3
English -4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with Initials :————.
(In block capitals)
Eg : SILV A M. A.
1.2 Name with initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In block capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Place of work and address :
2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:————.
(In block capitals)
3.0 Sex :-
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting :
Subject Subject No.
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :————.
6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :————.
6.3 Date of entry into Class II of Public Management
Assistants’ Service :————.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––.
7.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed :————.
7.3 Stamp Cage :
Stamp to the value of Rs. 90 for
whole Examination and Rs. 50 for each
subject
Note.- The candidates should affix stamps to the relevent value
and cancel them by placing their signature and date. Stamps should
not overlap each other.
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium
indicated above. I also certify that the Rs. ......................
stamps affixed hereto are genuine and have not been used

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1010
before. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations of the examinations act and also to the decision
taken by the Commissioner-General of Examinations
regarding this examination.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.
Note.- The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of such Head of Department.
ATTESTATION OF THE SIGNA TURE
I certify that ....................................... who is an officer in my
office and who is known to me personally placed his/her signature
in my presence this ..................................... day of
...........................................
————,
Signature and official stamp of the
person attesting.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The particulars furnished by the candidate have been
examined ;
(ii) This officer belongs to combined services ;
(iii) The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the
examination earlier ;
(iv) *He/she has affixed stamps to the value of Rs...............
since *he/she has appeared for the examination ; and
(iv) The candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
————,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
07-298
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND
HOME  AFFAIRS
Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for officers in
segment B of Class II and Efficiency Bar Examination
prescribed for officers in Segment “A” of Class II of the
Sri Lanka Technological Service - Year 2009
IT is hereby notified that in accordance with the approved service
minute of SLTS, the above mentioned examinations for the years of
2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 will be held by the
Commissioner General of Examinations, in Colombo on October,
2009.
02. (i) These examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the rules
and regulations prescribed by him in respect of the examinations.
(ii) The candidates will be subjected to the punishment imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, if such rules are
violated by them. Rules prescribed for candidates are printed
separately at the beginning of this Gazette Notification.
03. The specimen application for admission to this examination
is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are required
to prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form
and officers in the public service should forward their applications
through the respective head of department and officers in the
provincial public service should forward their applications through
the secretary of PSC in the provincial Council where they serve, by
registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 07th August,
2009. The top left corner of the envelope containing the application
should bear clearly the title of the examination. Applications
received after the closing date of application will be rejected.
04. Identity cards .– Candidates should prove their identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
subject they offer. For this purpose any of the following documents
will be accepted :–
(a) an identity card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons ;
(b) a valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish any
of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the discretion of
Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size
No. 01 to 03 should appear on the first page. Applications
could be typed but they should be completed correctly
and legibly by the candidate in his/her own hand writing
and in the language medium in which the candidate sit this
examination.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1011
Candidates who appear for this examination for the first
time are not required to pay any examination fees. but
they are required to affix stamps to the value of Rs. 90
for the whole examination or Rs. 50 for a subject for
subsequent sittings and duly cancel them with the
signature and date. This fee will not be refunded under
any circumstances. Also the transfer of such fee for any
other examination will not be allowed.
(ii) Candidates are not allowed to change the language medium
selected by them in their applications. If applications are
received in Sinhala, Tamil and Engish languages, this
examination will be held in those three languages. However,
candidates should answer the question papers in one and
the same language selected by them.
(iii) An officer is not allowed to sit for the both Efficiency
Bar Examination at one and the same occasion. However,
officer in class II segment ‘B’ who have completed a
service period of five years and passed the 1st Efficiency
Bar Examination can sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination
in Class II Segment ‘A’. Those Applicants should forward
two applications for two examination.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received. A candidate sitting himself
for the examination must produce his admission card with bear the
candidate's signature which duly attested to the supervisor of the
examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission
card will not be permitted to sit the examination. Any candidates
who do not receive the admission card at least 07 days prior to the
examination should inform the commissioner General of
Examination, Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Dept.
of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla furnishing the following
information, (Telegrams - Examinations), Colombo.
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the candidate ;
(iii) Address ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered number and
post office.
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have
failed to satisfy the requirements indicated in para (06) above will
not be considered
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves for
different  subjects separately at different examinations. However,
in order to secure a pass at least 40% of the marks should be
obtained in respect of each question paper.
09. Issue of the results of the examination.– In accordance with
the particulars indicated in para 3 above, the results of the candidates
belonging to provincial public service will be issued  to the Secretary
of the respective Provincial Public Service Commission and the
results of the candidates belonging to public service will be issued
to the Secretary of the respective ministry.
10. Scheme of Examinations :
(i) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment “B” will consist of 02 question papers.
1. Office Administration and Establishments Code (Two
hours)
(100 marks) (Subject No. 01)
2. Financial Regulations (Two Hours)
(100 marks) (Subject No. 02)
Syllabus for the first question paper :
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject No. 01)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Establishments
Code.
Chapter II - Recruitment Procedure and Appointment
Chapter III - Transfers
Chapter IV - Grant of Monthly Pay, Temporary Status,
Permanent status and Pensionability
Chapter V - Release, Reversion, and Termination of
Employment
Chapter VIII - Overtime, Holidays Holiday Pay and
Allowances
Chapter XII - Leave
Chapter XIII - Railway Warrants
Chapter XIV - Travel on duty within the Island
Chapter XIX - Government Quarters
Chapter XLVII - General Conduct and discipline
Syllabus for the second question paper :
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 02)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Financial
Regulations
(1) Chapter I
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue
The Consolidated Fund, Annual Estimates, Variations
of Estimates
(FR 1 to 68)
(2) Chapter III
Financial Management and Accountability
Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting Officers, Revenue
Officers, Authorization, Approval, Certification,
Delegation of Authority (FR. 124 to 147)
(2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment ‘A’ will consist of 02 question papers.
3. Office Administration and Establishment Code (Two
Hours)
(100 marks) (Subject No. 03)
4. Financial Regulation (Two Hours)
(100 marks) (Subject No. 04)

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1012
Syllabus for the first question paper :
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject No. 03)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Establishments Code.
Chapter XV - T ravel abroad for study, training or on duty
Chapter XVI - Holiday Travel
Chapter XXIII - Special concessions and conditions
regarding officers suffering from certain
types of illnesses
Chapter XXIV - Salary Loans and Advances
Chapter XXV - Concessions to members of Trade Unions
Chapter XXVII - Channels of Communication
Chapter XXVIII - Administrative procedures
Chapter XXX - Right of Government over its officers
Chapter XXXIII - Le gal advice and legal actions.
Chapter XLVII - General conduct and discipline
Chapter XLVIII - Rules of disciplinary procedure
Circulars issued on performance appraisal.
Syllabus for the second question paper :
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 04)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Financial
Regulations.
(1) Chapter VI
Custody of Public Money, etc., Imprests and Bank
Accounts.
Security of Public Money, Boards of Survey, Bank
Drafts, Bank Accounts (FR. 315 to 396).
(2) Chapter XIII
Supplies, Works and Services.
Supplies/Purchasing, Stock Verification, Procurement
Procedures, Contracts, Tender Procedure. (FR. 708 to
775)
12. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Pubic
Administration and Home Affairs will be the final in respect of any
matter not provided for in this notification.
D. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
22nd June, 2009,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
Specimen Form of Application
(for Office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION PRESCRIBED FOR
OFFICERS IN SEGMENT “B” OF CLASS II AND
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION PRESCRIBED FOR
OFFICERS IN SEGMENT “A” OF CLASS II OF THE SRI
LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - YEAR 2009
Medium in which you sit for the examination
(Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3/English - 4)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. ( a) Name with initials : (Indicate the initials at the end of the
name) :————.
(in English block capital letters) (eg. Silva A. B.)
(b) Name in full :————.
(in English block capital letters)
(c) Name with initials:————.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
(d) Official Address : (Admissions will be posted to this
address) :–––––––––.
(in English)
(in Sinhala) :–––––––––.
(e) Sex :––––––.
(Male - 0/Female - 1)
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(f) Efficiency Bar Examination which you apply :
(II“B” - 0/II“A” - 1) (indicate the relevant number in the
cage)
Two separate applications should be sent if qualifications
to appear for both examination as per para 5(iii) of the
Gazette Notification are fulfilled.
02. (i) Whether you belong to the provincial public
service or public service (indicate the relevant
number in the cage)
(Public Service - 1/Western - 2/Southern - 3/Central - 4/
North Western - 5/Sabaragmuwa - 6/Uva - 7/North Central - 8/
North - 9/ East - 10)
03. Subjects offered
(a) Subject offered for the Class II Segment B/Class II Segment
A Efficiency Bar Examination (delete inapplicable words)
Subject Subject No.
...........................
...........................
04. (i) Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date
(ii) Age as at 31.1 2.2008 :
Years Months Days

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.07.2009
1013
05. (i) Designation:————.
(ii) Class and Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service :––––.
(should be included as I, II A/B)
(iii) Service period in the above class and grade as at 31.12.2008
:––––––––.
06. Department which you belong to :————.
If not sitting the exam for the first time, affix stamps
to the value of Rs. 50 for one subject and Rs. 90 for the whole
examination and cancel them by placing the signature of the
candidate and the date.
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and I
am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. Further, I agree to abide by the rules imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination on conducting the
examination.
————,
Signature of the candidate.
Date:————.
Note.- Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence
of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to
sign on his behalf.
Attestation of candidate's signature
I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss .................. is presently
employed in my office and is well known to me and he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on ................ 2009.
————,
Signature of the attestor.
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 1-6
above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for the
examination and also eligible to sit for the examination in the language
medium mentioned above.
————,
Signature and designation of Head of Department.
Date:————.
07-194
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.