

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of September 02, 2022
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 05.09.2022)
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
A
PAVITHRA WANNIARACHCHI SAHURDA
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Lalith Ellawala, M. P.
for Kalutara District
to incorporate the Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation
(Private Members’ Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda
Foundation (Incorporation)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  PAVITHRA WANNIARACHCHI
SAHURDA  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS A Centre called and known as the “Pavithra
Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation” has heretofore been
formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all objects and matters and connected
with the said foundation according to the rules agreed to by
the members:
AND WHEREAS the said F oundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Pavithra Wanniarachchi
Sahurda Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2022.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Pavithra
Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation” (hereinafter referred to
as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a corporation
with perpetual succession, under the name and style “Pavithra
Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation” (hereinafter referred to
as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued,
and have full power and  authority to have and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
Preamble
Short title
Incorporation
of the
Pavithra
Wanniarachchi
Sahurda
Foundation
5
10
15
20
25
General
objects of the
Corporation

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda
Foundation (Incorporation)
(a) Building integration and cooperation with whom
the members gathered with Mrs. Pavithra
Wanniarachchi, the active of the leader of the
Ratnapura District political camp of Sri Lanka and
the sign of the Darmadasa Wanniarachchi, Pavithra
Wanniarachchi, contender of genuine political
vision, unconditional and dedicated efforts beyond
the limits and in order to work with her;
(b) Contributing with maximum level of effort and skill
belongs to us to work with participatory manner
with individually and hormonally in the political,
social, economical, cultural and all other common
activities with Mrs. Pavithra Wanniarachchi, the
leading politician;
(c) to promote ethics and culture, create necessary
resources and maintain;
(d) protecting the social values and arranging required
programs in order to maintain them;
(e) improving religious harmony and providing in need
support, sponsorship and providing donations;
(f) organizing programs in order to enhance cooperation
and unity among various communities live in Sri
Lanka;
(g) executing the activities which were decided by the
directors to be implemented for the well being of
the people;
4. (1) The of the affairs of the Corporation shall, subject
to the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for
the time being of the corporation be administered by a
Committee of Management consisting of Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer and another two members elected in
accordance with such rules.
5
10
15
20
25
Management
of the Affairs
of the
Corporation
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Pavithra Wanniarachchi shall be the Chairman of the Board
of Directors for life thereafter, the familly members of the
person who was holding office as the Chairman shall become
the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Governors Board holding office on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation any one of
them, to open, operate or close bank accounts, to borrow or
raise moneys with or without security to receive or collect or
accept grants and donations to invest its funds to the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the members  present  to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, on all or any of the following matters:–
(a) the classification of members, and the admission,
withdrawal, expulsion of members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the resignation  from,
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and their powers, conduct and duties;
General
Power of the
Corporation
Rules of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda
Foundation (Incorporation)
(c) the election of the members of the Committees of
the Management and its powers, conduct, duties
and duration of term of office;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Committee of
Management and of the time, places, notices and
agenda of such meetings, the quorum thereof and
the conduct of business thereof;
(f) the administrations  and management of the
property of the Corporation, the custody of its funds
and the maintenance and audit of its accounts: and
(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every members of Corporation shall  be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Corporation on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this act, shall
be paid and discharge by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Corporation on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation

<!-- page 6 -->

5Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda
Foundation (Incorporation)
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Body Corporate in one or more banks as the
Committee of Management  shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its power, duties and function under this Act.
9. Subject to the provisions of this Act,the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property, movable or immovable which may become vested
in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, lease, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and be subject
to the rules of the Corporation made under Section 06, with
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is  or are by its or their rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among their members.
11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation
Funds of the
body
corporation
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
Property
remaining on
dissolution

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda
Foundation (Incorporation)
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by the Auditor General or qualified auditor
appointed by the Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of
the Constitution.
(4) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor”
means—
(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant, issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant, issued by the Council of such
institute.
12. The seal of the Corporation, shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of two
members of the Committee of Management, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic, or
corporate or of any other persons.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
Seal of the
Corporation
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda
Foundation (Incorporation)
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING