

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 6.00  Postage  :  Rs. 10.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 21,  2009
—————————
[Certified on 21st August, 2009]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
AMBULUWAWA  DISSANAYAKE
MUDIYANSELAGE  JAYARATNE
RELIGIOUS  CENTRE  AND BIO-DIVERSITY
COMPLEX  TRUST  FUND
ACT,  NO .  44  OF  2009
—————————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
2—PL 004116—3,290 (05/2009)
[Certified on 21st A ugust, 2009]
L.D.—O. 57/2005.
A
N  A CT  TO  PRO VIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  A  TR UST  FUND  CALLED
THE  A MB ULUW AW A  DISSAN AYAKE  MUDIY ANSELA GE  JAYARA TNE
R ELIGIOUS  CENTRE  AND  BIO -DIVERSITY  COMPLEX  TRUST  FUND ; TO
SPECIFY  ITS OBJECTS  AND  PO WERS  AND  TO  PRO VIDE  FOR  THE  MA TTERS
CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENT AL  THERET O .
BE  it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. T his Act ma y be cited as the Amb uluw aw a
Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Jayaratne Religious Centre and
Bio-diversity Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009.
2. (1) There shall be established a Trust Fund which
shall be called the Amb uluw aw a Dissana yake
Mudiyanselage Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-
diversity Complex Trust Fund (hereinafter referred to as “the
Fund”).
(2) The Fund shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession, and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
3. (1) The administration, management and control of
the Fund shall be vested in a Board of Trustees constituted
as hereinafter provided.
(2) The Board of Trustees to the Fund (hereinafter referred
to as “the Board”) shall consist of the following members:-
(a) the founder ;
(b) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Environment and Natural
Resources ;
Short title.
Establishment of
the Amb uluw aw a
Dissanayake
Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne
Religious Centre
and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust
Fund.
Board of
Trustees of the
Fund.

<!-- page 3 -->

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
2
(c) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Buddha Sasana ; and
(d) seven persons appointed by the founder (hereinafter
referred to as “appointed members”).
(3) The Founder shall be the Chairman of the Board.
(4) An appointed member of the Board may at any time
resign his office by written communication addressed to the
Chairman.
(5) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing in office as a member of the Board if he is —
(a) a person who having been declared an insolvent or
bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in
any other country, is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt ; or
(b) convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude
and punishable with imprisonment for a term not
less than six months ; or
(c) under any law in force in Sri Lanka, found or
declared to be of unsound mind or mentally
deficient.
(6) The term of office of an appointed member of the
Board shall subject to the provisions of paragraphs (7) and
(8) shall be three years.
(7) Where an appointed member of the Board vacates his
office by death, resignation or otherwise before the expiry
of his term of office, his successor shall hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of his predecessor.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
(8) The Founder may, at any time remo ve any appointed
member for reasons assigned.
(9) The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all
meetings of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman from
any meeting, the members present at such meeting shall elect
from among themselves a Chairman for that meeting.
(10) In the event of any difference of opinion between
the members of the Board, the decision of the majority shall
be binding and effectual.
(11) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed
to be invalid  by reason only of the existence of any vacancy
among the members.
(12) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be
four members.
(13) Subject to the provision of subsection (10), the
Board may make rules to regulate the procedure in regard to
its meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.
4. The objects of the Fund shall be—
(a) to secure and de velop the Amb uluw aw a
Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Jayaratne Religious
Centre and Bio-diversity Complex ;
(b) to improve the area round the Amb uluw aw a
mountain range ;
(c) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and co-
operation among the community ;
(d) to promote and encourage inter-religious harmony
and social integration ;
Objects of the
Fund.

<!-- page 5 -->

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
4
(e) to promote the religious development of Sri
Lankans ;
(f) to enhance the knowledge and understanding of
Sri Lankans in the field of religion ;
(g) to improve the living conditions of persons who
are economically and socially disadvantaged in the
comm unity, including improvement to their shelters
and the provision of other infrastructure facilities ;
(h) to encourage people to intelligently invest in banks
and other financial institutions ;
(i) to establish relations with local and foreign
institutions which have similar objects as those of
the Fund;
(j) to provide financial or other assistance to any
person engaged in any activity which is similar to
any of the objects of the Fund ;
(k) to organize seminars, workshops and training
programmes in Sri Lanka and abroad on religious
fields ;
(l) to organize programmes for creating awareness
among the people on the human rights, duties and
access to justice ;
(m ) to provide adequate facilities for the improvement
of sports and recreation capabilities of people ;
(n) to lead the nation to global peace based on religious
principles of co-existence and to thereby establish
avenues for planned development ;
(o) to train youth labour for the development and
welfare of the common man;

<!-- page 6 -->

5Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
(p) to encourage the farmers and establishment of youth
farmers organizations within the community;
(q) to draw the special attention of the youth for
training in pre-vocational education and in the field
of sports;
(r) to conduct seminars, lectures and exhibitions,
lotteries and educational tours;
(s) to establish and maintain libraries; and
(t) to safeguard the interest of persons who have for
generations been engaged in the practice of
indigenous medicine and to protect herbal and
medicinal plants, indigenous to Sri Lanka.
5. The seal of the Fund—
(a) shall be in the custody of such person as the Board
may from time to time determine;
(b) may be altered in such manner as may be determined
by the Board; and
(c) shall not be affixed to any document except with
the sanction of the Board and in the presence of
two members of the Board who shall sign the
document in token of their presence.
6. (1) The Board shall, in the name of the Fund have the
pow er to do all things necessary for, or conducive or
incidental to the carrying out of the objects of the Fund.
(2) W ithout prejudice to the generality of the pow ers
conferred by subsection (1), the Board shall have the
following powers and functions:—
(a) to raise funds and to receive grants, gifts or
donations whether from local or foreign sources;
Seal of the
Fund.
Powers and
Functions of the
Fund.

<!-- page 7 -->

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
6
(b) to take or hold any property, movable or immovable,
w hich may become vested in it by this Act or by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and to sell, mortgage,
lease, grant, convey, devise, assign, exchange or
otherwise dispose of any property to which the Fund
may become entitled;
(c) to give grants, endowments, or scholarships locally
and abroad, for the furtherance of the objects of the
Fund;
(d) to conduct lotteries subject to any law for the time
being in force to collect moneys for the furtherance
of the objects of the Fund;
(e) to enter into and perform either directly or through
officers and servants or agents authorized in writing
in that behalf by the Board, all such contracts and
agreements as may be necessary for the exercise,
performance and discharge of the powers, duties
and functions and for carrying out the objects of
the Fund;
(f) subject to the provisions of this Act, to appoint,
employ and remunerate officers and servants of the
Fund and to make rules regarding the appointment,
promotion, remuneration and disciplinary control
of its employees and the grant of leave and other
benefits to them;
(g) to erect or caused to be erected any building or
structure on any land belonging to or held by the
Fund;
(h) to invest moneys belonging to the Fund at the
discretion of the Board in any such investments as
are authorized by law for the investment of money

<!-- page 8 -->

7Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
including trust money and to recall, re-invest and
vary such investments at the discretion of the Board
and to collect income accruing from such
investments; and
(i) to open, operate and close bank accounts and to
borrow or raise money with the property of the Fund
as security or without such security, for the purposes
of the Fund.
7. There shall be paid into the Fund—
(a) all moneys presently lying with the Public Trustee
in favour of the Fund and moneys lying in banks in
favour of the Amb uluw aw a En vironment
Development and Conservation Trust Fund;
(b) any moneys raised or collected or grants, gifts or
donations received locally or from abroad;
(c) grants received from the government from time to
time for purpose of carrying out the aims and objects
of the Fund; and
(d) any income from investments or other receipts due
to the Fund.
8. There shall be paid out of the Fund—
(a) expenses necessary for the establishment,
maintenance and operation of the Fund;
(b) the payment of salaries to officers, servants and
other employees; and
Payments into the
Fund.
Payment out of
the Fund.

<!-- page 9 -->

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
8
(c) all such other payments as are approved by the
Board as being necessary for the purpose of carrying
out the objects of the Fund.
9. All  contracts, agreements, debts and liabilities of
the said Trust Fund existing at the time of coming into
operation of this Act shall be deemed to be the contracts,
agreements, debts and liabilities of the Fund hereby
constituted.
10. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Fund.
(2) The Board shall cause its books to be balanced as on
the thirty-first day of December in each year and shall, before
the thirty-first day of March next, cause to be prepared and
income and expenditure account and a balance sheet
containing a summary of the assets and liabilities of the
Fund made up to the first mentioned date.
(3) The income and expenditure account and the balance
sheet shall be signed by two members of the Board
authorized to do so by a resolution passed by the Board.
(4) The A uditor-General shall audit the accounts of the
Fund every year in accordance with Article 154 of the
Constitution.
11. The financial year of the Fund shall be the calendar
year.
12. The Minister shall with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, in order to
facilitate the implementation of the aims and objects of the
Fund, exempt the Fund from the payment of any duties,
levies and of any tax on the income or profits of the Fund to
such extent as is permitted in terms of the Inland Revenue
Trust,
contracts, &c
of the Fund
deemed to be
those of the
Fund.
Accounts and
Audits.
Financial year
of the Fund.
Exemption
of the Fund
from
payment of
duties.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
A ct, No. 10 of 2006 or in terms of any other written law for
the time being in force governing the imposition of such
duty, levy or tax as the case may be.
13. (1) An y expense incurred by the Fund in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against the Fund before any court
shall be paid out of the Fund and any costs paid to, or
recovered by, the Fund in any such suit or prosecution shall
be credited to the Fund.
(2) An y expense incurred by any such person as is referred
to in subsection (1)  in any suit or prosecution brought
against him before any court in respect of any act which is
done or is purported to be done by him under this Act or on
the direction of the Board shall, if the court holds that such
act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund unless
such expense is recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.
14. All officers and servants of the Fund shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning and for the purposes
of the Penal Code.
15. The Fund shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall accordingly apply.
16. In the event of death of the Founder, the son of the
Founder shall succeed the founder and thereafter the eldest
male descendent shall be the  successor.
Re-
imbursement of
expenses.
Officers and
servants of the
Fund deemed to
be public
servants under
the Penal Code.
Fund deemed to
be a Scheduled
institution
within the
meaning of
Bribery Act.
Succession of
the founder.

<!-- page 11 -->

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
10
17. T he provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything contained in the Amb uluwaw a
Environment Development and Conservation Trust Fund,
and accordingly in the event of any conflict between the
provisions of this Act and the provisions of the Amb uluwaw a
Environment Development and Conservation Trust Fund,
the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
19. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“Amb uluw aw a Environment De velopment and
Conservation Trust Fund” means the Indenture
and Declaration of Trust made and entered into
at Kandy on September 01, 2000, between and
among Honorable Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne and the members of the Board of
Managing Trustee thereon and the Public
Trustee of Sri Lanka, a body incorporated under
the Public Trustee Ordinance (Chapter 88); and
“Founder” shall be the Honourable Dissanayake
Mudiyanselage Jayaratne.
Provisions of
this Act to
prevail over
provisions of
the Deed.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Ambuluwawa Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity
Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.