

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 158
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … 154
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"108 – 2019 ckjdß ui 25 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'01'25
No. 2,108 –  FRIDAY ,  JANUARY 25, 2019
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th February, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st February, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 G
ANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
151-B 81489- 5,403 (01/2019)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
152
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Of ﬁ cers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain pro
ﬁ ciency in one of the 
ofﬁ cial languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proﬁ ciency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
153
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
154
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar of Births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of Marriages 
(Kandyan/General) 
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar Marriages/
Additional Registrar of Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriage Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufﬁ cient interest and inﬂ uence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. Applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  Additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari Divisions within the related Division of Birth, Death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualiﬁ cations related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the Division such as District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats, Land and District 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Ofﬁ ce, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Ofﬁ ces as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "Attachment I" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari Divisions can be 
obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agents) or Land and District Registries or Divisional Secretariats of 
the District. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 25th 
February, 2019.
 N. C. V
ITHANAGE,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
On the day of 07th January, 2019.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kalutara Ingiriya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) in 
Raigama Korale Division and Births and 
Deaths of Ratmalgoda Division 
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kalutara. 
01–550

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
155
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar of Births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of Marriages 
(Kandyan/General) 
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar Marriages/
Additional Registrar of Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriage Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufﬁ cient interest and inﬂ uence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. Applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  Additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari Divisions within the related Division of Birth, Death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualiﬁ cations related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the Division such as District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats, Land and District 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Ofﬁ ce, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Ofﬁ ces as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "Attachment I" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari Divisions can be 
obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agents) or Land and District Registries or Divisional Secretariats of 
the District. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 25th 
February, 2019.
 N. C. V
ITHANAGE,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
On the day of 07th January, 2019.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional  Secretariat Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Colombo Moratuwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) 
in Moratuwa Area of Salpita Koralaya 
Division 
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Colombo. 
Colombo Moratuwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) 
in Moratumulla Area of Salpita Koralaya 
Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Colombo. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
156
District Divisional  Secretariat Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Colombo Dehiwala Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) 
in Pamankada South Area of Colombo 
Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Colombo. 
Colombo Sri Jayawardanapura 
Kotte
Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) 
in Kotte North Area of Colombo Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Colombo. 
Colombo Sri Jayawardanapura 
Kotte
Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) 
in Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte Area
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Colombo. 
Colombo Sri Jayawardanapura 
Kotte
Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) 
in Nugegoda Area of Colombo Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Colombo. 
Colombo Sri Jayawardanapura 
Kotte
Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) 
in Kotte South Area of Colombo Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Colombo. 
01–551
––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar of Births and Deaths   
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births and Deaths Divisions and should be entitled to 
properties and have acquired sufﬁ cient interest and inﬂ uence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. Additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari Divisions within the related Division of Birth, Death and 
Education and other quali ﬁ cations related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the Division such as District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats, Land and District Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Ofﬁ ce, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Ofﬁ ces as given in the following Schedule. 
05. Related applications and "Attachment I" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari Divisions can 
be obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agents Of ﬁ ce) or Land and District Registries or Divisional 
Secretariats of the District. 
06. Duly ﬁ lled applications shall be posted to the Address mention in the Schedule on or before 25th February, 2019 
by Register Post. 
 N. C. V
ITHANAGE,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
On the day of 07th January, 2019.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
157
SCHEDULE
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications should be 
sent
Colombo Seethawaka Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of 
Avissawella Town Division 
District Secretary/Additional Registrar 
General, District Secretariat, Colombo. 
Colombo Sri 
Jayawardanapura 
Kotte
Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of 
Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte North Division
District Secretary/Additional Registrar 
General, District Secretariat, Colombo. 
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of 
National Hospital - I Division
District Secretary/Additional Registrar 
General, District Secretariat, Colombo. 
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of 
Borella Division
District Secretary/Additional Registrar 
General, District Secretariat, Colombo. 
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of 
Wellawatta Division
District Secretary/Additional Registrar 
General, District Secretariat, Colombo. 
01–549
––––––––––––––––––––––
POST OF REGISTRAR OF MUSLIM MARRIAGE OF THE REGISTRAR 
GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT 
Kalutara District 
NOTICE OF CANCELLATION 
THE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the post 
of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in Kalutara District which was published by me in the Part I(IIA) of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 2,104 dated 28.12.2018 is cancelled hereby.  
District Divisional Secretariat Division Post and Division for which Application are called
Kalutara Bandaragama Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in Atalugama Area of Raigam 
Korale Division
 N. C. VITHANAGE,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th January, 2019.
                                                                                                                                  
01–548

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
158
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Admission of Two Groups of Student Teachers 
Simultaneously to follow a Three Year Pre-Service 
National Diploma in Teaching Course conducted by 
National Colleges of Education based on G. C. E. (A/L) 
results in 2016 and 2017 - 2018
1.0. APPLICATIONS are invited from the applicants 
who have acquired requisite academic quali ﬁ cations and 
eligibility to follow a Three-year Pre-Service National 
Diploma in Teaching Course in a National College of 
Education.
1.1. This is relevant only for the students who have 
passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in the year 
2016 or 2017. (Chapters 4.5 and 4.8 are relevant for 
the Buddhism, Catholicism/Christianity Courses).
1.2. Accordingly, the applicants who have appeared for 
the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in year 2016/2017 
or else in both relevant years may apply for this. 
1.3. All the applicants should forward an application 
online and through registered post as well in 
accordance with instructions mentioned in Chapter 
10.0 - 'Applying' of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation. 
1.4 The applicants who are quali ﬁ ed to apply 
relevant to both 2016 and 2017 need not send two 
applications ; instead should mention relevant 
information correctly and separately in the same 
application. 
1.5 It is emphasized that sending two applications for 
2016 and 2017 without reading the instructions 
appropriately may result in rejecting of both 
applications. 
1.6 It is the responsibility of the applicant to read and 
understand every detail provided in the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation under the courses s/he applies for and 
complete the application accordingly. 
1.7 Special attention should be paid to the number of 
applicants recruited for each course as mentioned 
in Nos. 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 of 7.0 in the Section of 
"Instructions for the Preperation of Application" in 
the Gazette Notiﬁ cation. 
1.8 Application should be forwarded on or before 
15.02.2019 through registered post and Online 
as well. (Instructions given in 10.0 should be 
followed in this regard).
1.9 Applicant may submit their applications online 
until 12.00 midnight on the closing date of 
applications (15.02.2019).
2.0 Eligibility
.–  Every applicant should be,
2.1 a Citizen of Sri Lanka,
2.2 of an excellent character and sound physical and 
mental health. 
2.3 Age:
2.3.1 Should be not more than 25 years of age as 
on 01. 01. 2018;
2.3.2 Clergy / those who bear a priesthood 
applying for all the religious courses should 
be not more than 30 years of age as on 
01.01.2018;
2.4 Should be unmarried.
3.0  Basic Educational Qualiﬁ cations :
 3.1 It is compulsory that all the applicants should 
have completed the basic quali ﬁ cations in 
3.2 and 3.3 mentioned below for admission to 
National Colleges of Education (3.3.2 is relevant 
only for the Buddhism course).
 3.2 Should have passed in three (03) main subjects 
in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
held in the year of 2016 or 2017.
 3.3 3.3.1 All the applicants should have passed in ﬁ ve 
(05) subjects including Medium Language 
(Sinhala Language/Tamil Language) with 
three (03) credit passes at the ﬁ rst sitting at 
the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination and should 
have passed in six (06) subjects including 
Mathematics in not more than two sittings.
  3.3.2 Should have passed in six (06) subjects 
including Mathematics and Sinhala with 
three (03) Credit passes in not more than 
two sittings at Preliminary Pirivena Final 
Examination. 
 3.4 If the applicants who have completed the basic 
qualiﬁ cations mentioned in 3.2 and 3.3 above 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
159
have not completed the speciﬁ c qualiﬁ cations of 
G. C. E. (O/L) necessary for each course in two 
sittings, it should have been completed in the 
third sitting. 
 3.5 In addition, speci ﬁ c quali ﬁ cations required for 
each course are speci ﬁ ed under the relevant 
course.
NOTE: Following subjects are considered under the 
G.C.E. (O/L) new syllabus of 2008 and the old 
syllabus which was in effect before 2008.
 Subjects considered under the G.C.E. (O/L) new syllabus 
of 2008:
 1. Core (Main) Subjects :
(i)  Religion (ii) Sinhala Language and Literature/
Tamil Language and Literature (iii) English 
Language (iv) Mathematics (v) History                 
(vi) Science
2. Category Subjects :
 (i) Any Subject out of ﬁ rst category (ii) Any Subject 
out of second category (iii) Any Subject out of 
third category of subjects.
  Subjects considered under the G.C.E. (O/L) 
Old Syllabus (before 2008):
  (i) Religion (ii) Sinhala Language and 
Literature/Tamil Language and Literature (iii) 
English Language (iv) Mathematics (v) Science 
and Technology (vi) Social Studies and History 
(vii) Any subject out of Aesthetic Subjects 
(viii) Any subject out of Technical Subjects. 
(Subjects from (i) to (vi) are considered the 
Core (main) subjects)
  Subjects considered under Preliminary 
Pirivena Final Examination: (i) Sinhala (ii) Pali 
(iii) Sanskrit (iv) English (v) Mathematics (vi) 
Thripitaka
 3.6 The applicants who apply for the courses conducted 
in the medium of English should have achieved 
English Language proﬁ ciency as follows :
3.6.1 Those who   apply   for   English   Medium 
Courses except for English Language Course 
should have obtained minimum of a Credit 
pass in English Language/Ordinary pass 
in English Literature at the G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination.
3.6.2 Although the courses on Information 
Communication Technology and Western 
Music are conducted in the English Medium, 
the applicants of other media of instructions 
also may apply. 
3.6.3 The applicants who are capable of following 
the courses in the Medium of English should 
apply for this because all the teaching 
activities and examinations are conducted in 
English Medium only.
 3.7 Applicants who are called for interview for Art/ 
Dance (Oriental)/ Dance (Bharatha)/ Music 
(Oriental)/ Music (Carnatic)/ Drama and Theatre 
will be graded and selected as mentioned below.
  Applicants will be called for the interview on the 
district basis according to their Z-score order. 
They will be recruited in accordance with the 
grade obtained for the relevant Aesthetic subject 
in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination, and their Z-score 
order. Accordingly, the applicants who have 
obtained higher Z score with the highest Grade 
for the relevant Aesthetic subject will be given 
priority. 
 3.8 Effective date of all the Educational and Other 
Certiﬁ cates should be on or before the closing date 
of applications (15.02.2019).
4.0 Qualiﬁ cations for each Course.– 
 Educational quali ﬁ cations and other special 
qualiﬁ cations applicable for recruitment to each course 
in National colleges of Education are as follows.
NOTE:
  3.2 and 3.3 of 3.0 above indicate the minimum 
basic educational quali ﬁ cations that should be 
completed at G. C. E. (A/L) and (O/L) Examinations, 
Preliminary Pirivena Final Examination for 
admission to National Colleges of Education. In 
addition, the subject proﬁ ciencies that should be 
speciﬁ cally achieved for those courses are indicated 
under each course. 
  Applicants are called for interviews on the 
order of marks obtained for the applicants' 
sports certi ﬁ cates for the Health and Physical 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
160
Education course; in accordance with the clauses 
mentioned in the Gazette Notiﬁ cation for English, 
Information and Communication Technology 
and other courses with a speciﬁ ed quota ; and on 
the order of Z score as mentioned in the Gazette 
notiﬁ cation for all the other courses. 
 * In case of some courses, only the applicants 
with speciﬁ c qualiﬁ cations of G. C. E. (O/L) are 
selected through computer data on the basis of 
information provided in 9.0 of the application 
and they are called for interviews in accordance 
with the appropriate procedures. 
 * In a particular course, in case a quota (a 
percentage) has been allocated for different 
qualiﬁ cations (except for Catholicism/
Christianity), three fold of the number of 
applicants for the quota out of the total number 
of admissions in that course are called for the 
interview and the due number of applicants are 
selected on the order of qualiﬁ cations. 
 * In case of the courses "Priority order of selection" 
is mentioned that order is considered after the 
interviews when the quali ﬁ ed applicants are 
selected in accordance with the proper number 
of vacancies ; otherwise not at the time of calling 
for interviews.
 * Accordingly, the selections are made subjected 
to the basis of recruitment on the order of 
sports marks in each category in the Physical 
Education Course, according to the speci ﬁ c 
methods of selection if it is mentioned under 
certain courses, on the order of Z-Score of the 
qualiﬁ ed applicants in the other courses.
4.1 Course No.  01 - Primary Education (Sinhala)
                                  Primary Education (Tamil)
4.1.1 The applicants who have followed the Art Stream 
with Sinhala Language or Tamil Language at 
G.C.E. (A. Level) Examination.
 4.1.1.1. Three (03) passes in one sitting including 
Sinhala Language/Tamil Language at 
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in Arts Stream 
held in year 2016 or 2017;
and
 4.1.1.2 Should have passed G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination in six (06) subjects 
with minimum of Credit passes in 
Medium Language (Sinhala/Tamil) and 
Mathematics and an Ordinary pass in 
English together with basic quali ﬁ cations 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
  or
4.1.2 The applicants who have followed art stream 
without the subject of Sinhala Language or Tamil 
Language at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
 4.1.2.1 Three (03) passes in one sitting at 
G.C.E.(A/L) Examination in Arts 
Stream without Sinhala Language/ Tamil 
Language,  held   in  year   2016 or 2017;
or
 4.1.2.2 Three (03) passes in one sitting at G.C.E.  
(A/L) Examination in  Science (Physical  
Science/Biology)  Commerce, 'Other', 
Technology subject streams, held in year           
2016 or 2017 ;                                                                                                       
and
 4.1.2.3 Should have passed G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination in six (06) subjects with 
minimum of a Very Good pass in Medium 
Language (Sinhala/Tamil) and a Credit 
pass in Mathematics and an Ordinary 
pass in English together with basic 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
NOTE: In recruitment out of the total number of 
admissions to the Primary Course from each 
district :-
 (i) 60% out of the applicants who have appeared 
for G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in Arts Stream 
with Sinhala Language/ Tamil language as a 
subject.
 (ii) 10% of the applicants who have not followed 
Sinhala/Tamil as a subject for G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination in Arts stream and 10% each 
out of Science (Physical Science/Biology), 
Commerce streams. 
 (iii) 05% each out of the applicants who have 
studied Technology/Other subject streams 
for G. C. E. (A/L) Examination,
  the proper number of applicants are selected.
 (iv) If the required number of quali ﬁ ed applicants 
are not found in the proper subject stream 
in the order of all the pro ﬁ ciency levels of 
District/Provincial/National, the applicants 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
161
are selected for the remaining number of 
the vacancies out of the applicants who 
have followed Art stream without Sinhala/
Tamil Language for the G. C. E. (A/L) and 
the applicants who have followed Commerce 
stream respectively, in the priority order of 
proﬁ ciency in District/Provincial/National 
levels. 
4.2 Course No. 02 -    Science (Sinhala)
                                    Science (Tamil)
                                    Science (English)
4.2.1 Passing of the three subjects of Physics, Chemistry 
and Biology in the Biology Stream in one sitting 
at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2016 
or 2017 ;
and
4.2.2 Passing of G.C.E. (O/L) Examination with 
minimum of Credit passes in Mathematics and 
Science/Science and Technology together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
Note.– 
 Science (English Medium) Course:
 On district basis 60% of the total number of 
applicants in this course are recruited out of the 
applicants who have followed G.C.E. (A/L) in the 
medium of English and the remaining 40% will be 
selected out of the applicants who have followed 
G.C.E (A/L) in the medium of Sinhala/Tamil. (In 
the recruitment of applicants who have followed 
G. C. E. (A/L) in the medium of Sinhala/Tamil 
Priority will be given to the applicants who have 
studied at least one subject for G.C.E. (A/L) in 
the medium of English). If the required number 
of quali ﬁ ed applicants who followed G. C. E. 
(A/L) in the Medium of English is not found, the 
remaining number of vacancies will be ﬁ lled with 
the applicants who have followed G. C. E. (A/L) 
in the Medium of Sinhala/Tamil in accordance 
with the recruitment procedure. 
4.3 Course No. 03 -    Mathematics (Sinhala)
  Mathematics (Tamil)
  Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three (03) passes in one sitting in the subjects of 
Combined Mathematics, Higher Mathematics, 
Physics and Chemistry in the Physical Science 
Stream at the   G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in 
year 2016 or 2017;
and
4.3.2 Passing of G.C.E.(O/L) Examination with 
minimum of Credit passes in Science/ Science 
and Technology and Mathematics together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
Note :
 Mathematics (English Medium) Course: 
 On district basis 60% of the total number of 
applicants in this course are recruited out of the 
applicants who have followed G.C.E. (A/L) in the 
Medium of English and the remaining 40% will 
be selected out of the applicants who have studied 
for G.C.E (A/L) in the Medium of Sinhala/
Tamil (In the recruitment of applicants who have 
followed G.C.E. (A/L) in the Medium of Sinhala/
Tamil, Priority will be given to the applicants who 
have studied at least one subject for G.C.E. (A/L) 
in the Medium of English). If the required number 
of quali ﬁ ed applicants who followed G.C.E. 
(A/L) in the Medium of English is not found, the 
remaining number of vacancies will be ﬁ lled with 
the applicants who have followed G.C.E. (A/L) in 
the Medium of Sinhala/Tamil in accordance with 
the recruitment procedure. 
4.4 Course No. 04 -    Social Science (Sinhala)
  Social Science (Tamil)
4.4.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting including at least one subject out of History, 
Geography, Political Science, Economics in the 
Art stream at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in 
year 2016 or 2017;
or
4.4.2 Passing of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in 
year 2016 or 2017 in three subjects in one sitting 
including Economics in the Commerce stream ;
or
4.4.3 Passing of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in 
year 2016 or 2017 in three subjects in one sitting 
including Geography in the 'Other' subjects stream ;
 and
4.4.4 Passing of G.C.E. (O/L) Examination at least 
with a Credit pass in one of the subjects of 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
162
Social Studies and History or History/Citizenship 
Education/Geography together with qualiﬁ cations 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
4.4.5 In this course 60% of the total number of 
applicants who have applied under 4.4.1, 30% of 
the appilcants who have applied under 4.4.2 and 
10% of the applicants who have applied under 
4.4.3 are selected in the order of quali ﬁ cations of 
each district. If the required number of applicants 
is not found under a particular subject stream the 
remaining number of vacancies will be ﬁ lled with 
the priority order fo quali ﬁ cations in 4.4.1, 4.4.2 
and 4.4.3.
4.5 Course No. 05 -    Buddhism
 Buddhist monks, Buddhist nuns, the Dasasil 
Mathas registered in the Department of Buddhist 
Affairs under the Ministry of Buddha Sasana and 
laymen may apply for the Buddhism course. 
4.5.1 Should have passed G.C.E. (A/L) Examination 
held in year 2016 or 2017 in three (3) subjects in 
one sitting including two (02) out of Buddhism, 
Buddhist Civilization, Pali, Sanskrit and Sinhala.
 and
4.5.2 Passing of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination with 
an Ordinary pass to Buddhism together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0/completing 
of quali ﬁ cations indicated under 3.3.2 of 3.0 at 
Preliminary Pirivena Final Examination ;
and
4.5.3 Should have passed Bauddha Dharmacharya 
Examination.
or
4.5.4 Should have passed Pracheena, Preliminary 
Examination.
or
4.5.5 Should have passed Damma School Final 
Examination.
4.5.6 Sariputta National College of Education 
(Nittambuwa) is reserved for the clergy. If there 
are quali ﬁ ed Buddhist nuns/Dasasilmathas, they 
will be recruited under clergy and directed to 
Dambadeniya National College of Education.  
If the required number of clergy applicants 
is not found for the existing vacancies  the 
remaining number will be recruited out of laymen 
for Sariputta National College of Education 
(Dambadeniya). 
4.5.7 In case of inadequate number of applicants of the 
clergy who have passed G.C.E.(A/L) in 2016, 
clergy/ those who bear a priesthood who have 
passed the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in the  years  
2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012 ; and inadequate 
number of applicants of the clergy who have 
passed G. C. E. (A/L) in 2017, clergy/those who 
bear a priesthood who have passed the G. C. E. 
(A/L) Examination in years 2016, 2015, 2014 and 
2013 will be selected respectively considering the 
immediately preceding year.
4.5.8 Priority order in selection :
 ( a) Applicants having Certi ﬁ cates under 4.5.1, 
4.5.2 and 4.5.3
 ( b) Applicants having Certi ﬁ cates under 4.5.1, 
4.5.2 and 4.5.4
 ( c) Applicants having Certi ﬁ cates under 4.5.1, 
4.5.2 and 4.5.5
 ( d) Applicants having Certi ﬁ cates under 4.5.1 
and 4.5.2
4.6 Course No. 06 -    Hinduism
4.6.1 Should have passed the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination 
held in year 2016 or 2017 in three subjects in one 
sitting including one out of the three subjects of 
Hinduism, Hindu Civilization and Sanskrit.
and
4.6.2 Passing of G.C.E. (O/L) Examination with 
an Ordinary pass in Hinduism together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
and
4.6.3 Having Shaiva Siddhartha Pandithar Certi ﬁ cate.
or/and
4.6.4 Having Shaiva Pulaver Certi ﬁ cate.
or/and
4.6.5 Having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certi ﬁ cate.
4.6.6 Priority order of selection:
 ( a) Applicants having 4.6.1, 4.6.2 and all other 
Certiﬁ cates.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
163
 ( b) Applicants having certi ﬁ cates 4.6.1, 4.6.2, 
4.6.5 and one of the other two Certiﬁ cates.
 ( c) Applicants having Certi ﬁ cates 4.6.1, 4.6.2 
and one of the other three Certiﬁ cates.
 ( d) Applicants having Certi ﬁ cates 4.6.1, 4.6.2
4.7 Course No. 07 -  Islam
4.7.1 Should have passed the G.C.E (A/L) Examination 
held in year 2016 or 2017 in three (03) subjects in 
one sitting  including one out of the three subjects 
of Islam, Islamic Civilization and Arabic.
and
4.7.2 Should have passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination 
with an Ordinary pass in Islam together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
and
4.7.3 Should have passed all subjects in Al – Alim 
Examination (all subjects in Preliminary 
Examination and all subjects in ﬁ nal Examination).
or
4.7.4 Should have passed all subjects in Al – Alim 
Preliminary Examination.
and
4.7.5 Having Moulavi Certi ﬁ cate.
4.7.6 Priority order of Selection:
 ( a) Applicants having Certi ﬁ cates 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 
4.7.3 and 4.7.5.
 ( b) Applicants having   Certi ﬁ cates 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 
4.7.4 and 4.7.5.
 ( c) Applicants having Certi ﬁ cates 4.7.1, 4.7.2 
and 4.7.5.
 ( d) Applicants having Certi ﬁ cates 4.7.1 and 
4.7.2.
4.8 Course No. 08 -    Catholicism/Christianity  
 (Sinhala)
  Catholicism/Christianity  
 (Tamil)
4.8.1 
 4.8.1.1 Should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination held in year 2016 or 2017 in 
any three (3) subjects in one sitting ;
and
 4.8.1.2 Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination with an Ordinary pass in 
Catholicism/Christianity together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
and 
 4.8.1.3 The applicant should have obtained the 
Certiﬁ cate of Catholic Bishop con ﬁ rming 
that the applicant is Catholics/the Certiﬁ cate 
of National Christian Council con ﬁ rming 
that the applicant is a Christain ;
and
4.8.2 Selection of applicants for Catholicism Course 
will be made in the priority order of qualiﬁ cations 
given below:
 4.8.2.1 Having the Certi ﬁ cate of the four year 
course on Theology conducted by National 
Seminary;
 4.8.2.2 Having the Certi ﬁ cate of the Philosophy 
course conducted by National Seminary;
 4.8.2.3 Having the Certi ﬁ cate of the three year 
religious education course conducted by 
Deva Dharma Nikethanaya (Theology 
Centre);
 4.8.2.4 Having the Certi ﬁ cate issued by Superior or 
relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that the 
applicant has successfully completed the 
course of studies on the Religious Education 
and Training (Novitiate) to become a 
member of the clergy (male/female);
 4.8.2.5 Passing of one of the Catholic Dhama Guru 
(Teacher of Catholicism) Examinations 
conducted by the National Catechetical 
Centre ;
 i.e. 
  Dahamguru 3 ( ﬁ nal)               
or
  Dahamguru 2 (medium)                  
or
  Dahamguru 1 (preliminary)                
 4.8.2.6 Passing of Christianity/Christian Civilization 
in G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
4.8.3 Selection of applicants for Christianity course 
will be made in the priority order of qualiﬁ cations 
given below:

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
164
 4.8.3.1 Should have obtained the Certi ﬁ cate                  
of Dharmavedi Diploma course 
conducted by Lanka Theological College, 
Pilimatalawa.
 4.8.3.2 Should have obtained National Certiﬁ cate 
on Religious Knowledge (Dharmacharya) 
issued by National Christianity Council.
 4.8.3.3 Passing of Christianity/Christian 
Civilization at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Note :
 (i) 40% of the total number of applicants will be 
selected from Catholic and Christian clergy. 
If the required percentage (40%) of vacancies 
cannot be ﬁ lled with clergy, selection will be 
made from laity applicants. 
 (ii) 85% of all admissions of Catholic laity 
applicants quali ﬁ ed under 4.8.1 are selected 
on the priority order given under 4.8.2. If the 
85%   of   qualiﬁ ed Catholic applicants are not 
available, Christian candidates are selected for 
such vacancies.
 (iii) 15% of all admissions of Christian laity 
applicants quali ﬁ ed under 4.8.1. are selected 
on the priority order given under 4.8.3. If the 
15% of quali ﬁ ed Christian applicants are not 
available, Catholic candidates will be selected 
for such vacancies.
 (iv) The applicants for the Catholicism/Christianity 
course are called for interviews in the order 
of z-score of the applicants in each district 
and the districts which the 15% Christian 
laity applicants are recruited are decided on 
the basis of the districts represented by the 
applicants who participate in the interview 
with the highest Z-Score and the number of 
vacancies that prevail in these districts.
 (v) In case of inadequate number of applicants of 
the clergy who have passed G. C. E. (A/L) in 
2016, clergy/those who bear a priesthood who 
have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
in the years 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012 ; 
and inadequate number of applicants of the 
clergy who have passed the G.C.E. (A/L) in 
2017, clergy/those who bear a priesthood who 
have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
in the years 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 will 
be selected respectively considering the 
immediately preceding year based on the order 
of qualiﬁ cations.
4.9 Course No. 09 -    First Language (Sinhala)
4.9.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting with a Credit pass in Sinhala Language at 
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2016 or 
2017;
 and
4.9.2 Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination 
in six (06) subjects at least with a Credit pass in 
Sinhala Language and literature together with 
qualiﬁ cations relelvant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
4.10 Course No. 10 -    First Language (Tamil)
 4.10.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting with a Credit pass in Tamil Language at 
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2016 or 
2017;
 and
 4.10.2 Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination 
with a Credit pass in Tamil Language and 
literature together with quali ﬁ cations relevant 
to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
4.11 Course No. 11 -   English
 4.11.1 
 4.11.1.1 Should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination held in year 2016 or 2017 in 
three (03) subjects in one sitting including 
English Language (subject No. 73).
and
 4.11.1.2 Should have passed in six (06) subjects 
with a Credit pass in English Language/
an Ordinary pass in English Literature at 
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
 4.11.2 
 4.11.2.1 Should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination 
held in year 2016 or 2017;
and
 4.11.2.2 Should have passed in six (06) subjects 
with minimum of a Credit pass in English 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
165
Literature and an Ordinary pass in English 
Language at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination 
together with quali ﬁ cations relevant to 
3.3.1 of 3.0.
 4.11.3 
 4.11.3.1 Should have passed in any three subjects 
in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination 
held in year 2016 or 2017.
and
 4.11.3.2 Should have passed in six (06) subjects 
with minimum of a Very Good Pass 
in English Language at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination together with quali ﬁ cations 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
 Note.– 
  While all the applicants applied under 4.11.1 from 
each district are called for interview, remaining 
number of applicants necessary for completing 
the three fold of the number to be recruited in 
the interview will be called for interview out of 
the quali ﬁ ed applicants applied under 4.11.2 on 
the order of Z-Score. In case of inadequacy to 
complete the relevant three fold, the quali ﬁ ed 
applicants applied under 4.11.3 will be called 
for interview according to priority order of their 
Z-Score. 
 4.11.4 Priority order of Selection:
 (i) The applicants quali ﬁ ed under 4.11.1 in the 
relevant district will be selected according to 
the priority order of their Z-score.
 (ii)  If vacancies further exist, applicants quali ﬁ ed 
under 4.11.2 will be selected after grading 
them in descending order based on the grade 
obtained for the subject of English Literature 
at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination and matching 
up with Z-score.
 (iii) If vacancies further exist, applicants quali ﬁ ed 
under 4.11.3 will be selected after grading 
them in descending order based on the 
grade the applicants obtained for the subject 
of English Language at G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination and matching up with Z-score.
4.13 Course No. 13 -    Art (Sinhala)
  Art (Tamil)
 4.13.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting including Art at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination 
held in year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.13.2 Passing of G.C.E. (O/L) Examination with 
minimum of a Credit pass in Art together with the 
qualiﬁ cations in 3.3.1 of 3.0..
 4.13.3 The applicants who have acquired quali ﬁ cations 
under 4.13.1 and 4.13.2 will be selected 
in accordance with the procedure stated in                      
section 3.7.
 Note.– 
  (If the number of applicants who have acquired 
the required quali ﬁ cations for Sripada National 
College of Education is not suf ﬁ cient to ﬁ ll the 
vacancies, priority will be given to the applicants 
of Tamil Medium non-estate   workers’ of Indian 
origin who are resident in estate districts; they 
should have passed in three (03) subjects including 
Art at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in year 2016 if it 
is relevant to the recruitments based on the results 
of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in year 
2016/at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2017 if it 
is relevant to the recruitments based on the results 
of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in year 
2017).
4.14 Course No. 14  -    Dance (Oriental)
4.14.1. Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting including Dancing (Oriental) at G.C.E.  
(A/L) Examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
  and
4.14.2. Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination 
with minimum of a Credit pass in Dancing 
(Oriental) together with the qualiﬁ cations relevant 
to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
4.14.3. The applicants     who     have     acquired 
qualiﬁ cations under 4.14.1 and 4.14.2 will 
be selected in accordance with the procedure                      
stated in section 3.7.
4.15 Course No. 15  -    Dance (Bharatha)
 4.15.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting including Bharatha Natyam  at  G.C.E. 
(A/L) examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.15.2 Should have passed Bharatha Natyam with 
minimum of a Credit pass at G. C. E. (O/L) 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
166
Examination together with the quali ﬁ cations 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
 4.15.3 The applicants who have acquired quali ﬁ cations 
under 4.15.1 and 4.15.2 will be selected in 
accordance with the procedure stated in section 
3.7.
 Note : 
  (If the number of applicants who have acquired 
the required quali ﬁ cations for Sripada National 
College of Education is not suf ﬁ cient to ﬁ ll the 
vacancies, priority will be given to the applicants 
of Tamil Medium non-estate workers’ of Indian 
origin who are resident in estate districts; they 
should have passed in three (03) subjects including 
Bharatha Natyam at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held 
in year 2016  if it is relevant to the recruitments based 
on the results of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
held in year 2016/at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
in 2017 if it is relevant to the recruitments based 
on the results of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
held in year 2017).
4.16 Course No. 16 -  Music (Oriental)
 4.16.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting including Music (Oriental) at G.C.E. (A/L) 
Examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.16.2 Should have passed Music (Oriental) with 
minimum of a Credit pass at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination together with qualiﬁ cations relevant 
to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
 4.16.3 The     applicants     who     have     acquired 
qualiﬁ cations under 4.16.1 and 4.16.2 will be 
selected in accordance with the procedure stated 
in section 3.7.
4.17 Course No. 17  -  Music (Carnatic)
 4.17.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting including Carnatic Music at G.C.E. (A/L) 
Examination held in year 2016 or 2017 ;
  and
 4.17.2 Should have passed Carnatic Music with minimum 
of a Credit pass at G. C. E. (O/L) examination 
together with quali ﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 
3.0.
 4.17.3 The applicants who have acquired quali ﬁ cations 
under 4.17.1 and 4.17.2 will be selected in 
accordance with the procedure stated in section 
3.7.
 Note : 
  (If the number of applicants who have acquired 
the required quali ﬁ cations for Sripada National 
College of Education is not suf ﬁ cient to ﬁ ll the 
vacancies, priority will be given to the applicants 
of Tamil Medium non-estate workers of Indian 
origin who are resident in estate districts; they 
should have passed in three (03) subjects including 
Carnatic Music at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in 
2016 if it is relevant to the recrutiments based on 
the results of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held 
in year 2016/at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 
2017 if it is relevant to the recruitments based on 
the results of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held 
in year 2017).
4.18 Course No. 18 -    Western Music (English)
 4.18.1 
 4.18.1.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting including Western Music at 
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 
2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.18.1.2 Should have passed English Language 
with minimum of a Credit pass/English 
Literature with an Ordinary pass and 
Western Music with minimum of a Credit 
pass at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination together 
with qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0 ;
  or
 4.18.2 
 4.18.2.1 Should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) 
Examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.18.2.2 Should have passed English Language 
with minimum of a Credit pass/English 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
167
Literature with an Ordinary pass and 
Western Music with Ordinary  pass at            
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
  and
 4.18.2.3 Should have passed Class Four in Western 
Music (Theory and Practical) from a 
recognized institute approved by the 
Colleges of Education Board/Secretary to 
the Ministry of Education;
  or
 4.18.3 
 4.18.3.1 Should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) 
Examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.18.3.2 Should have passed English Language with 
minimum of a Credit pass/English Literature 
with an Ordinary pass and Western Music 
with minimum of an Ordinary pass at                                                         
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
  and
 4.18.3.3 Should have passed in Western Music 
as an additional subject at G.C.E. (A/L) 
Examination;
  or
4.18.4 
 4.18.4.1 Should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) 
Examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.18.4.2 Should have passed Western Music with a 
Distinction pass and English Language with 
minimum of a Credit pass/English Literature 
with an Ordinary pass at G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examnation together with quali ﬁ cations 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
Note : 
 (i) Applicants should reach a satisfactory level 
of performance at the practical test conducted 
for Western Music course.
 (ii) In selection, priority will be given to 
applicants qualifying under 4.18.1, 4.18.2, 
4.18.3, 4.18.4 respectively.
4.19 Course No. 19 - Drama and Theatre (Sinhala)
  Drama and Theatre  (Tamil)
 4.19.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting including Drama and Theatre at G.C.E. 
(A/L) Examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.19.2 Should have passed Drama and Theatre with 
minimum of a Credit pass at G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination together with quailﬁ cations relevant 
to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
 4.19.3 The applicants who have acquired quali ﬁ cations 
under 4.19.1 and 4.19.2 will be selected in 
accordance with the procedure stated in section 
3.7.
4.20 Course No. 20 - Physical Education (Sinhala)
  Physical Education  (Tamil)
 4.20.1 Should have passed in any three (03) subjects in 
one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in 
year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.20.2 Should have passed Science/Science and 
Technology with an Ordinary pass at G. C. E. 
(O/L) Examination together with quali ﬁ cations 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0 ;
  and
 4.20.3 Achievements/performances in the recognized 
track and ﬁ eld athletics and organized sports. 
(A maximum of 75 marks will be awarded 
for certi ﬁ cates of three different sports/events 
according to the priority order given in the table 
4.20.3.1.).
 4.20.3.1 Priority order to award marks for the sports/
events it given below ; the list of recognized 
sports that should be used in this regard is 
given in the table 4.20.5 -X.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
168
4.20.3.1. PRIORITY ORDER OF SPORTS / EVENTS
Serial  
No. Level/ Subject Single Team Place/
Grade Marks
1 International  Level single ---- 12 5
2 International  Level single ---- 22 4
3 International  Level single ---- 32 3
4 International  Level ---- team 1 24
5 International  Level ---- team 2 23
6 International  Level ---- team 3 22
7 International level Representation single team ---- 21
8 National Level single ---- 12 0
9 National Level single ---- 21 9
10 National Level single ---- 31 8
11 National Level ---- team 1 19
12 National Level ---- team 2 18
13 National Level ---- team 3 17
14 Provincial Level / National Associations /School Associations single ---- 11 6
15 Provincial Level / National Associations /School Associations single ---- 21 5
16 Provincial Level / National Associations /School Associations single ---- 31 4
17 Provincial Level / National Associations /School Associations ---- team 1 15
18 Provincial Level / National Associations /School Associations ---- team 2 14
19 Provincial Level / National Associations /School Associations ---- team 3 13
20 Regiment Sergeant Major / Warrant Of ﬁ cer 1 (Army/ Police) /
Fleet Chief Petty Ofﬁ cer (Navy) / Master Warrant Ofﬁ cer (Air 
Force) / Herman Loos Cup Trophy/ De Zoysa Cup Trophy /
Cadet Eastern / Western Band (Girls / Boys) Trophy
---- ---- ---- 10
21 President’s Scout/ Girl Guide ---- ---- ---- 10
22 Sergeant  Major / Warrant Of ﬁ cer II (Army/Police) / Admin 
Petty Ofﬁ cer (Navy) / Warrant Ofﬁ cer (Air Force) / Herman 
Loos Cup First Runner-up Trophy/De Zoysa Cup First Runner-
up Trophy/Cadet Eastern / Western Band (Girls / Boys) First 
Runner-up Trophy
---- ---- ---- 09
23
Educational Zonal / District Level single ---- 11 0
24 Educational Zonal / District Level single ---- 20 9
25 Educational Zonal / District Level single ---- 30 8
26 Educational Zonal / District Level ---- team 1 09
27 Educational Zonal / District Level ---- team 2 08
28 Educational Zonal / District Level/Staff Sergeant (Army /
Police) / Chief Petty Ofﬁ cer (Navy) / Flight Sergeant (Air 
Force) / Herman Loos cup Second Runner-up / De Zoysa 
Cup Second Runner-up
---- team 3 07
29 Educational Divisional / Divisional Secretariat single ---- 10 6
30 Educational Divisional / Divisional Secretariat single ---- 20 5
31 Educational Divisional / Divisional Secretariat single ---- 30 4

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
169
Serial  
No. Level/ Subject Single Team Place/
Grade Marks
32 Educational Divisional / Divisional Secretariat ---- team 1 05
33 Educational Divisional / Divisional Secretariat Level/
Battalion Trophy (Boys Battalions - 29/Girls - 09)
---- team 2 04
34 Educational Divisional / Divisional Secretariat Level ---- team 3 03
 4.20.4 If the applicant has appeared for Health and 
Physical Education at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination 
additional points will be granted for the grade 
obtained in as given below. It will be added to 
marks obtained for the sports certi ﬁ cates and the 
total mark will be adjusted accordingly.:
  A Pass – 05
           B Pass – 03 
          C Pass – 02 
           S Pass – 01
 4.20.5 Special attention should be paid to the following 
points  :
 (i) Selection for the Physical Education course 
will be made according to the respective 
order of marks for sports performances 
of the applicants in each District as given 
below. (according to the tables in 4.20.3.1 
and 4.20.4)
 (ii) In the recruitment on district basis, 30% of 
the applicants will be selected for the athletics 
under category 1; 30% from the games 
of volleyball, netball and football under 
category 2; and 40% from other recognized 
sports as mentioned in table 4.20.5 -X.
 (iii) The category number the applicant belongs 
to is decided on the basis of category s/
he is placed according to the highest level 
of marks separately earned from each 
category, after awarding marks according 
to the criteria of marks for the certi ﬁ cates 
produced by the applicant. If any applicant 
scores equal marks under 2 or 3 categories, 
s/he will be considered under the category 
which the certi ﬁ cate of the applicant's best 
achievement belongs to. 
 (iv) Recognized sports competitions (International) 
– Participation in international competitions 
representing Sri Lanka National Teams or 
School National Sports Teams (except chess, 
carrom and draught) through Ministry of 
Education/ Ministry of Sports and their 
registered sports clubs is valid for this. 
(Participation in International Competitions 
on personal basis by school sports teams 
will not be considered). Certi ﬁ cates at 
International competitions are considered 
only if the minimum of a Provincial level 
local victory has been achieved. Otherwise 
no marks will be granted.
 (v) Recognized sports competitions (Local) – 
National level competitions organized by the 
Ministry of Education/ Ministry of Sports/ 
National Youth Services Council.
  Provincial level competitions organized 
by the Provincial Education Department/ 
Provincial Ministry of Sports/ National 
Youth   Services Council ;
  District/ Divisional Secretariat Level  
competitions organized by the Provincial 
Ministry of Sports/ National Youth Services 
Council / Zonal /Divisional level competitions 
organized by the Provincial Education 
Deparment ; are valid for this
 (vi) Only the 1 st, 2nd and 3rd places in ‘A’ Grade 
Competitions organized by recognized 
Sports Clubs registered under the Ministry 
of Sports and Ministry of Education will 
be given priority under these tournaments 
respectively.
 (vii) For those who apply on the results of 
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination of 2016, only the 
certiﬁ cates obtained for Sports performance/
achievements during the period from 
01.01.2012 to 31.12.2016; and those who apply 
on the results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination 
of 2017, only the certi ﬁ cates obtained for 
Sports performance/achievements during the 
period from 01.01.2013 to 31.12.2017 will 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
170
be valid. (Note : while the certi ﬁ cates issued 
before or after this period are not considered 
for awarding marks and all the certi ﬁ cates 
submitted will be subjected to con ﬁ rmation 
by the relevant institutions).
(viii) While marks are awarded only for three
certiﬁ cates which the applicant has shown the 
maximum skill, it is compulsory to produce
all the relevant certi ﬁ cates to the interview
board on the interview day itself.
(ix) When the mark is awarded to three
certiﬁ cates, only the highest certi ﬁ cates
obtained for the same event in the same year
will be considered.
(x) Only the following sports events among the
National and School Sports Clubs recognized 
by the Ministry of Sports and Ministry of
Education will be considered.
Badminton Weight Lifting V olleyball
Aquatic 
Sports 
(Swimming)
Football 
(Soccer) 
Netball
Judo Gymnastics Wushu
Cycling Table Tennis Tennis
Elle Wrestling Boxing
Hockey Basket ball Kabaddi
Karate Do Soft Ball 
Cricket
Baseball
Teak-Won-Do Hand Ball Physical 
Exercises
Throw Ball Athletics
Rugby Cricket
4.21 Course No. 21 – Home Economics (Sinhala)
  Home Economics (Tamil)
 4.21.1 Should have passed in three subjects in one 
sitting including Home Economics at G.C.E. 
(A/L) Examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
and
 4.21.2 Should have passed Science/ Science and 
Technology with an Ordinary pass at G.C.E. 
(O/L) Examination together with quali ﬁ cations 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0
4.22 Course No.  22 – Agriculture and Food 
Technology (Sinhala)
Agriculture and Food 
Technology (Tamil)
4.22.1  Should have passed in the three (03) subjects of 
Agricultural Science, Biology and Chemistry 
under Biology Stream in one sitting at G.C.E. 
(A/L) Examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
or
 4.22.2 Should have passed the three (03) subjects of Bio 
– Resource Technology, Science for Technology
and Agricultural Science under Technology
stream in one sitting at G.C.E( A/L) Examination
held in year 2016 or 2017;
or
 4.22.3 Should have passed in three subjects in one sitting 
with one of the subjects of Agricultural Science/
Agro-Technology/Bio-Resource Technology/
Food Technology under Arts Stream at G.C.E 
(A/L) Examination held in 2016 or 2017
and
 4.22.4 Should have passed Science/Science and 
Technology with minimum of a credit pass 
at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination together with 
qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0
Note :
• Out of the number recruited for the course from
each district applicants are selected on the ratio of
50% out of the applicants applied under 4.22.1,
25% out of the applicants applied under 4.22.2,
and the remaining 25% out of the applicants
applied under 4.22.3.
• In case of inadequacy of the number of applicants
under a certain subject category, remaining
number of vacancies will be ﬁ lled in the priority
order of qualiﬁ cations as stated in 4.22.1, 4.22.2,
4.22.3 respectively.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
171
 4.23   Course No. 23 –  Technical Studies – Crafts and Art (Sinhala)
 Technical Studies – Crafts and Art (Tamil)
4.23.1. Should have passed in any three (03) subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2016 or 
2017;
  and
 4.23.2 Should have passed Crafts and  Art with an Ordinary pass at G.C.E. (O/L)  Examination together with qualiﬁ cations 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
4.24 Course No.  24 – A. Design and ConstructionTechnology (Sinhala)
 24 – B. Design and Mechanical Technology (Sinhala)
 24 – C. Design and Electrical and Electronic Technology (Sinhala)
 24 – A. Design and Construction Technology (Tamil)
 24 – B. Design and Mechanical Technology (Tamil)
 24 – C. Design and Electrical and Electronic Technology (Tamil)
 4.24.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one sitting including EngineeringTechnology, Science for Technology 
and one of the subjects approved as the third subject for Technology stream at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in 
year 2016 or 2017;
  or
 4.24.2 Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one sitting including one of the subjects out of Civil Technology, 
Mechanical Technology, Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology under Hard Technology at G.C.E. 
(A/L) Examination held in year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.24.3 Should have passed one subject out of Design and Construction Technology/Design and Mechanical Technology/ 
Design and Electrical and Electronic Technology/ Design and Technology with an Ordinary pass at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination together with qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
NOTE – Very Speciﬁ c 
 (i) The applicants who apply for this course should apply only for one course out of the above sub-courses of A, B, 
C according to the relevant medium of language. 
 (ii) When the application is completed by the applicants who apply for this course, it is compulsory to note sub 
course number with its English letter very clearly and accurately in the table/tables in which the  courses applied 
should be mentioned under 1.0 of the application whether the applicant is applying for Design and Construction 
Technology (24 – A)/Design and Mechanical Technology (24 – B)/Design, Electrical and Electronic Technology 
(24 – C). 
 (iii) 
It is emphasized that the applications which only ‘Design and Technology’ is mentioned will be rejected.
 (iv) Three fold of the applicants recruited from each district will be called for interview and selections will be made 
as shown below.
 4.24.4 Priority Order of Selection: 
  ( a) Applicants qualiﬁ ed under 4.24.1 and 4.24.3
  ( b) Applicants qualiﬁ ed under 4.24.2 and 4.24.3

<!-- page 22 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
172
  4.25 Course No. 25 – Information Communication Technology (English)
4.25.1. 
 4.25.1.1. Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one sitting including Information Communication Technology 
with minimum of a Credit pass at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2016 or 2017;
  and
 4.25.1.2. Should have passed English Language with minimum of a Credit pass/ English Literature with an 
Ordinary pass at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination together with qualiﬁ cation relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
  or
4.25.2 
 4.25.2.1. Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one sitting  including an Ordinary pass for Information 
Communication Technology at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2016 or 2017.
  and
 4.25.2.2. Should have passed Information Communication Technology with minimum of  a Credit pass and English 
Language with minimum of a Credit pass/ English Literature with an Ordinary pass at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination together with qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
    or
4.25.3.
4.25.3.1. Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting in Physical Science stream at the G.C.E. (A/L) 
Examination held in Year 2016 or 2017.
  and
4.25.3.2. Should have passed Information Communication Technology with minimum of  a Very Good pass and 
English Language with minimum of a Credit pass/ English Literature with an Ordinary pass at G.C.E. 
(O/L) Examination together with qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0
4.25.3.3. The applicants who have passed General Information Technology (GIT) Examination in Grade 12 will 
receive priority in this category subjected to the order of Z-Score. 
    or
4.25.4 
 4.25.4.1. Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting in Biology Stream at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination 
held in Year 2016 or 2017;      
   and
 4.25.4.2.  Should have passed Information Communication Technology with minimum of a Very Good pass and 
English Language with minimum of a Credit pass/ English Literature with an Ordinary pass at G.C.E.(O/L) 
Examination together with qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
 4.25.4.3.  The applicants who have passed General Information Technology (GIT) Examination in Grade 12 will 
receive priority in this category subjected to the order of Z-Score.
 or
4.25.5.
4.25.5.1.   Should have passed in any three (03) subjects 
in one sitting under the subject streams of Art, Commerce, 
Technology and ‘Other’ at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2016 or 2017.
  and
4.25.5.2.   Should have passed Information Communication Technology with a Distinction pass and English 
Language with minimum of a Credit pass/ English Literature with an Ordinary pass at G.C.E.(O/L) 
Examination together with qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
173
4.25.5.3.  The applicants who have passed General Information Technology (GIT) Examination in Grade 12 will 
receive priority in this category subjected to the order of Z-Score.
4.25.6.  The interview and the course for Estate Workers’ children who apply for this course relevant to Sripada National 
College of Education will be conducted at Ruwanpura National College of Education.
NOTE:  Three fold of the applicants of the number to be recruited from each district will be called for interview as 
shown below according to the order of their Z-Score. Accordingly,
 (i) applicants applied under 4.25.1
 (ii) if it is not adequate to complete the three fold, quali ﬁ ed applicants applied under 4.25.2
 (iii) if it is further inadequate to complete the three fold the quali ﬁ ed applicants applied under 4.25.3, 
4.25.4, 4.25.5 are called for interview respectively to complete the remaining number of vacancies. 
4.25.7. Priority Order of Selection:
 (i)  The applicants who have completed the quali ﬁ cations under 4.25.1 in the order of Z-Score .
 (ii)  If vacancies further exist, the applicants who have completed quali ﬁ cations under 4.25.2 in the order of 
Z-Score
 (iii)  Thereafter, if vacancies further exist, the applicants who have quali ﬁ cations under 4.25.3, 4.25.4, 4.25.5 
are selected respectively subjected to the priority order in this category, according to the priority order 
of Z-Score among the applicants who passed General Information Technology Examination (GIT) and 
appeared for the interview under every subject stream. 
4.30 Course No. 30 - Second National Language (Sinhala)
 4.30.1 Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting with minimum of a Credit pass in Sinhala Language at 
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2016 or 2017. 
        and  
 4.30.2 Should have passed in Sinhala Language and Literature with minimum of Credit pass at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination 
together with the qualiﬁ cations relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
 NOTE: 
 • In selection of applicants for this course, priority will be given to the applicants who have passed in Tamil 
as a Second National Language at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination/ Second National Language (Advanced) 
Certiﬁ cate in Tamil issued by the Department Of ﬁ cial Languages/Tamil Language as optional subject at 
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination, respectively.
 • Only those who agree to serve in a Tamil Medium School in any district in the Island may apply for 
this course.
4.31  Course No. 31 - Second National Language (Tamil)
 4.31.1.  Should have passed in three (03) subjects in one sitting including a Credit pass in Tamil Language at G.C.E.(A/L) 
Examination held in year 2016 or 2017
  and

<!-- page 24 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
174
4.31.2. Should have passed the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination at least with a Credit pass in Tamil Language and Literature 
together with qualiﬁ cations mentioned in 3.3.1 of 3.0
NOTE  
 • In selection of applicants for this course, priority will be given to the applicants who have passed in Sinhala as 
Second Language at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination/ Second Language (Advanced) Course in Sinhala conducted  
by  the  Department Of ﬁ cial Languages / Sinhala as Optional Language at G.C.E.  (O/L) Examination 
respectively.
 • Only those who agree to serve in a Sinhala Medium School in any district in the Island may apply for 
this course. 
4.32 Course No. 32  –  Special Education (Sinhala)
   Special Education (Tamil)
4.32.1. Should have passed in any three (03) subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2016 or 
2017;  
       and  
4.32.2. Should have completed the qualiﬁ cations mentioned in 3.3.1 of 3.0 at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
NOTE –The applicants of this course will be appointed as teachers of Special Educational Needs such as visually- 
impaired, hearing- impaired, multiple-impaired, autism, learning- difﬁ culties and intellectual deﬁ ciencies.
Hence, only the applicants, who are willing to sign an agreement to serve in these special units where the 
impaired children learn, should apply for this course. (According to the circular No. 42/2012 and the letter 
numbered ED/9/18/8/2/6 and dated 17.05.2017 issued by the Secretary to the Ministry of Education).
5.0  Number of the Course, Name of the Course and the Medium in a par with the National Colleges of Education 
where each course will be conducted are indicated below.
 When computer sheets are prepared for the interview of each course, the application will be computerized referring 
to Course Number mentioned by the applicant. Applications that are ﬁ lled with incorrect information will be rejected. 
No alteration is permitted after your application is sent to the branch of National Colleges of Education, Ministry of 
Education. However, Colleges of Education Board/Secretary to the Ministry of Education holds the right of making 
ﬁ nal decision regarding the placement of courses in an appropriate manner in National colleges of Education.
Column i –   Course Number
Column ii –    Course Name
Column iii –  NCoEs where Sinhala Medium  courses are conducted.
Column iv –   NCoEs where Tamil  Medium courses are conducted.
Column v  –    NCoEs where English Medium courses are conducted.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
175
Course 
Number
Course Name Names of NCoEs by the medium of courses
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v
01 Primary Education  Uva Vavuniya
 Nilwala Sripada
 Mahaweli Addalaichenai
 Sariputta 
(Dambadeniya)
Batticaloa
 Sripada Jaffna
 Pasdunrata Dharga Town
 Pulathisipura
 Wayamba
 Ruwanpura
 Ruhuna
 Hapitigam
 Maharagama
Vavuniya
02
Science  Nilwala  Vavuniya  Nilwala
 Siyane  Sripada  Siyane
 Sripada
Addalaichenai  Jaffna
 Batticaloa
 Jaffna
03 Mathematics  Nilwala  Vavuniya  Nilwala
 Siyane  Sripada  Siyane
 Sripada
Addalaichenai  Jaffna
 Jaffna
04
Social Science Ruhuna  Sripada
Sripada  Batticaloa
05 Buddhism Sariputta – 
Nittambuwa and  
Dambadeniya
06 Hinduism Vavuniya
07 Islam Addalaichenai
08 Catholicism / Christianity  Wayamba Vavuniya
09 First Language (Sinhala)  Wayamba
 Peradeniya
10 First Language (Tamil) Sripada
Dharga Town
Peradeniya
11 English  Mahaweli
 Pasdunrata
 Jaffna
 Peradeniya

<!-- page 26 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
176
Course 
Number
Course Name Names of NCoEs by the medium of courses
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v
13 Art  Mahaweli  Sripada
 Wayamba  Batticaloa
 Jaffna
14 Dance (Oriental)  Mahaweli
 Wayamba
15
Dance ( Bharatha)  Sripada
 Jaffna
16 Music (Oriental)  Mahaweli
 Wayamba
17
Music ( Carnatic)  Sripada
 Jaffna
18 Western Music Maharagama
19 Drama and 
Theatre  Mahaweli  Batticaloa
 Wayamba
20 Physical Education  Uva  Vavuniya
 Nilwala  Batticaloa
 Ruhuna
21
Home Economics  Ruhuna  Vavuniya
Dharga Town
22 Agriculture and Food Technology  Pulathisipura  Vavuniya
23 Technical Studies – Crafts and Art  Siyane  Batticaloa
24 Design and Construction 
Technology/ Design and 
Mechanical Technology/ Design 
and Electrical and Electronic 
Technology
 Siyane  Batticaloa
25 Information Communication 
Technology
Pasdunrata 
Ruwanpura
Maharagama
30 Second Language (Sinhala) Mahaweli
Wayamba
Maharagama
31
Second Language (Tamil)  Mahaweli
 Vavuniya
32 Special Education  Hapitigam Addalaichenai
 Maharagama  Jaffna
NOTE - 
   Darga Town National College of Education is reserved forTamil Medium female students.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
177
6.0 Procedure for Selection of Student Teachers for year 2018
 6.1 Basis of Selection :
 6.1.1. The number of student teachers to be admitted to the colleges has been decided by considering the teacher 
carder requirements based on the number of vacancies created through the retirement of teachers in the 
year 2021 for the candidates who passed G.C.E. (A/L) in 2016 and the retirement of teachers in 2022 for 
the candidates who passed G.C.E. (A/L) in 2017, the existing number of vacancies at present in the school 
system and the necessity of making subject variations in the under-privileged areas and calculating the 
teacher requirement for each subject and matching that number to the available facilities for each subject of 
two batches in 2018 at National Colleges of Education simultaneously.
  A higher percentage of student recruitment for the courses of Primary Education, Science, Mathematics 
and English will be allocated for the under-privileged districts of  Nuwara-eliya, Hambanthota, Jaffna, 
Kilinochchi, Mannar, Vavuniya, Mulaithivu, Batticaloa, Ampara, 
Trincomalee, Puttlam, Anuradhapura, 
Polonnaruwa, Badulla, Monaragala and Ratnapura (based on the number of student teachers selected for 
each course).
  The major determinant for the number recruited for each subject is the number that can be facilitated by the 
National Colleges of Education for each subject. 
6.1.1.1. Accordingly, the recruitment in 2018 will be made as mentioned below for the candidates who 
passed G.C.E (A/L) in 2016 and 2017 separately: 
 (I)  The number mentioned in the Gazette to be recruited from each district for each course from 
each medium will be selected following the Note 4.0 and the methods indicated under the 
relevant courses considering the order of Z score the candidates have obtained in each district 
and other qualiﬁ cations mentioned in the Gazette notiﬁ cation. (The number recruited for the 
subject of Physical Education from each district under each medium will be decided according 
to the order of marks for sports obtained by each  candidate as indicated in 4.0 and under the 
relevant course.)
 (II)  The number mentioned in the gazette to be recruited from plantation districts to Sripada 
National College of Education for each course from each medium will be selected following 
the Note 4.0 under the special qualiﬁ cations mentioned in the Gazette with the order of Z score 
the candidates have obtained in each district. 
 6.1.2 When the selections are made on the basis of Z-score, if one student should be selected out of several 
students who have obtained the same Z-score in the relevant district / considering   the Performance of  
sports marks if one student should be selected out of several who have scored the same mark, the results 
obtained in six (06) core (main) subjects indicated in 3.5 of 3.0 at the G.C.E. (O/L) at the ﬁ rst sitting will be 
considered. 
  Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a Distinction Pass, 03 marks for a Very Good Pass, 02 marks for 
a Credit Pass, and 01 mark for an Ordinary Pass at the G.C.E. (O/L) results and the available number of 
vacancies will be ﬁ lled based on the total marks obtained.
 6.1.3 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level of performance at the Practical 
Test  conducted for Physical 
Education, Dance (Oriental), Dance (Baratha), Music (Oriental), Music (Carnatic), Drama and Theatre and 
Western Music courses under the basis of recruitment.
 6.1.4 When the selections are made on district basis, if the required number of quali ﬁ ed applicants for a particular 
course is not available in the total database, the provincial performance of the applicants will be considered. 
If there are not enough candidates in the province to which the particular district belongs to, the national 
level performance of the candidates will be considered.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
178
6.2 Determination of Permanent Residence–
 6.2.1. Province/District of permanent residence of applicants will be determined in the following manner. 
6.2.1.1.  In the district basis recruitment, the applicant’s district should be the district in which the applicant 
resided in the year when s/he appeared for the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in the ﬁ rst sitting and the 
two years immediately preceding to that.
6.2.1.2.  It is emphasized that if the candidate has changed his/her district of permanent residence by present/
has resided temporarily in the district for personal convenience/it is not the district of permanent 
residence of the candidate though it is the district where the candidate appeared for the G.C.E. 
(A/L) Examination at the ﬁ rst sitting or after that, the particular district will not be considered as 
the district of permanent residence.
6.2.1.3.  T
he  province  in  which  the  applicant permanently resided in the year s/he appeared for the 
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in the ﬁ rst sitting and the two years immediately preceding to that will 
be considered as the province of the applicant in determining the provincial rank.
 6.2.2.  Applicants should conﬁ rm their permanent residence by the under mentioned ways. 
  I.  Applicants should conﬁ rm their permanent residence by certiﬁ ed copies of electoral registers as per the 
procedure of recruitment.
 II.  In case of the years of which the applicant was unable to register in the electoral register due to being 
underage, permanent residence of the applicant in such years should be con ﬁ rmed by the copies of 
electoral registers in which the names of the applicant’s parents appear.
 III.  Applicants who resided with a guardian other than the parents during the concerned period of time 
should conﬁ rm permanent residence by including such guardianship with the period of time, under 
the column ‘other information’ in the ‘Certiﬁ cate on Residence and Character’ issued by the Grama 
Niladhari (DS - 04). In case of the years of which the applicant was unable to register in the electoral 
register, permanent residence of the applicant in such years should be conﬁ rmed by certiﬁ ed copies of 
electoral registers in which the names of the applicant’s guardian appear.
 IV .  In case that the applicant fails to con ﬁ rm their permanent residence of  three  years or several of 
the years by certi ﬁ ed copies of electoral registers, acceptable reasons should be provided for being 
unable to register in the electorate in the ‘Certiﬁ cate on Residence and Character’ issued by the Grama 
Niladhari (DS - 04) under the column ‘other information’ with the signature of the Grama Niladhari 
of the division where the applicant’s permanent residence is and counter signed by the Divisional 
Secretary.
 V .  In case that the applicant is able to con ﬁ rm permanent residence only of one or two years through 
copies of electoral registers, permanent residence of the remaining year/years   should be  conﬁ rmed by  
other  acceptable documents ( e.g. Certiﬁ cate issued by  the Grama Niladhari, address in the National 
identity card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons).
6.2.3. No excerpts of electoral registers should be attached to the application. 
6.3. Selection for Sripada National College of Education
 6.3.1. Vacancies will be ﬁ lled as per the ratio 75% of out of the applicants of the Indian Tamil origin and 25% out 
of Sinhalese applicants. (Indian Tamil candidates should be able to prove their nationality  at the interview 
with direct or secondary evidence and the nationality of their mother/father should appear as “Indian 
Tamil” in the birth certiﬁ cate of the candidate.)

<!-- page 29 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
179
 6.3.2. The number of applicants recruited will be allocated to plantation districts based on the available number 
of vacancies in those districts. 
 6.3.3. Applications for admission to Sripada National College of Education will be entertained only from the 
children whose parents are estate workers and residents in plantation districts; Nuwara Eliya, Kandy, 
Matale, Badulla, Moneragala, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara, Galle, Kurunegala and Colombo. 
 6.3.4. Priority will be given to children of  the  workers  who  work  at present and the children of estate workers 
living in estates after serving for at least 10 years in the estate sector and retired/passed away/left service 
on medical reasons
   during 2007 – 2016 (for those who passed G.C.E. (A/L) in 2016)
  during 2008 – 2017 (for those who passed G.C.E. (A/L) in 2017)
 6.3.5. In case of insuf ﬁ cient number of applicants as per the Clause 6.3.4, applications from the children of the 
estate workers who fulﬁ ll the following qualiﬁ cations will be considered even if they are not employed in 
the estate sector at the moment.
 6.3.5.1. For plantation workers’ children who passed G.C.E. (A/L) in 2016; those who worked 
continuously at least for 05, 04, 03 years by 2006 or after that will be considered respectively. 
(Priority is given respectively as 2015, 2014, 2013).
 6.3.5.2. For plantation workers’ children who passed G.C.E. (A/L) in 2017; those who worked 
continuously at least for 05, 04, 03 years by 2007 or after that will be considered respectively. 
(Priority is given respectively as 2016, 2015, 2014).
 6.3.6. In case of insuf ﬁ cient number of applicants quali ﬁ ed in Tamil Medium as mentioned above, applicants 
who are not the children of employees in the plantation sector, but of Indian Tamil origin living in those 
districts will be considered.
 6.3.7 In case of insuf ﬁ ciency of qualiﬁ ed applicants under the above category too, 
Tamil Medium applicants with 
Indian Tamil origin who are residing in other districts will be considered.
 6.3.8. 
 6.3.8.1  In case of insuf ﬁ cient number of Sinhala Medium applicants from estate workers’children of 
plantation districts, the rest of the vacancies will be ﬁ lled out of those who have applied for the 
same course in Sripada/ Other National Colleges of Education. The procedure of the selection will 
be the Z-score and the other required qualiﬁ cations under the basis of recruitment.
 6.3.8.2 In case of insuf ﬁ cient number of Tamil Medium quali ﬁ ed applicants according to 6.3.4 – 6.3.7, 
the rest of the vacancies will be ﬁ lled out of the quali ﬁ ed candidates in the waiting lists of other 
National Colleges of Education where the Tamil Medium interviews for the same course are 
conducted.
 6.3.9. At the interview, the children of the employees in the state and private sector estate companies should 
submit relevant documents out of the documents mentioned below to con ﬁ rm that they are children of 
estate workers : 
 • A letter from the Estate superintendent relating to current service (with relevant time duration) that 
the parent is permanently and continuously serving and residing in estates.
 • A letter from the Estate superintendent con ﬁ rming the current permanent residence of the family 
members of estate workers those who have resigned from service due to medical reasons/ retired/
passed away after serving in estate sector for10 years,
  2007 – 2016 (for those who passed G.C.E. A/L in 2016)
  2008 – 2017 (for those who passed G.C.E. A/L in 2017)

<!-- page 30 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
180
  Permanent residence in the estate at present and the year and date of retirement/ resignation should 
be clearly mentioned in the letter and the Grama Niladhari certiﬁ cate.
 • A letter from the Estate Superintendent con ﬁ rming the continuous service for  the relevant period of 
05 years or more in plantation sector workers who retired/ resigned
  in or after 2007 (for those who passed G.C.E. (A/L) in 2016 and 
  in or after 2008 (for those who passed G.C.E. (A/L) in 2017
  indicating year and date clearly of the retirement/ resignation.
 • Letter/s including Registration Numbers to prove that deductions are being/have been made for the 
Employees’ Provident fund. A letter issued by the Grama Niladhari conﬁ rming the residence in estates. 
 6.3.10. Applicants should submit an af ﬁ davit at the interview declaring to serve a period of ten (10) years 
continuously in the schools in the plantation sector after the course.
 6.3.11 In the case of an applicant having an Indian 
Tamil origin who  had  studied in  Sinhala Medium, they will 
be considered for the percentage entitled to Indian Tamil origin. Similarly, a Sinhalese applicant who had 
studied in Tamil Medium will be considered for the Sinhala Medium percentage.
 6.3.12.  Children of estate workers who apply for Sripada National College of Education are eligible to apply for 
the other national Colleges of Education also in their medium of study if they fulﬁ ll required qualiﬁ cation. 
7.0  Other Matters Related to Selection
 7.1.  The applicants who are selected should be prepared to submit acceptable evidence and originals of certi ﬁ cates 
to conﬁ rm their eligibility for the relevant course on the date of interview. According to paragraph 4.0 of the 
Gazette Notiﬁ cation a number of applicants three times as the number of applicants to be recruited in each 
district will be called for the interview. The opportunity of those who fail to appear in the interview without 
informing any reason on due date will be ﬁ lled with other applicants from the same district, based on the order 
of qualiﬁ cations. Absentees will not be reconsidered.
 7.2. It is mandatory to submit all original certi ﬁ cates at the interview. Those who fail to do so will not be selected.
 7.3. Mental and physical ﬁ tness required by an applicant for reaching the expected level in the course and to enter 
the Teaching Profession will be checked by the interview board at the ﬁ rst interview following the criteria 
given by the Ministry of Education. The interview board will submit their recommendations on whether 
the applicant possesses the required mental and physical ﬁ tness to follow the course and enter the Teaching 
Profession.
 7.4. In accordance with paragraph 7.3 the applicants who have completed the quali ﬁ cations under recruitment 
criteria and with eligibility as well, will be notiﬁ ed through registered post. Accuracy of the submitted details 
will be rechecked by an interview board in the registration at the relevant National College of Education. 
Only the candidates who are able to recon ﬁ rm their eligibility will be recruited to the relevant course at 
the particular National college of Education. Those who fail to register at the relevant National Colleges of 
Education within ten (10) working days of the due date will be deprived of the opportunity for the admission. 
The vacancies created thereby, will be ﬁ lled according to the performance order, subjected to the provisions 
stipulated in the recruitment procedure.
 7.4.1. Hence, it is emphasized that there is no any opportunity to consider appeals of the applicants who are 
not registered by the due date.
• Speci ﬁ c situations for which an interview board is unable to submit recommendations under 7.3 
or 7.4 will be directed to a special board. The report of the special board will be forwarded to the 
Colleges of Education Board/Secretary to the Ministry of Education for the ﬁ nal decision.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
181
 7.5. Applicants who are selected to register in the National College of Education after appearing for the ﬁ rst and 
second interviews are required to appear for a Medical Examination before their admission to the Colleges of 
Education for the certiﬁ cation of their health condition.
 7.6. Any applicant can apply for three courses according to the order of preference, based on G.C.E. (A/L) results 
of one year. Nevertheless, they will be called for interviews only for the courses they complete required 
qualiﬁ cations and selection will be made according to the order of 
performance.  A candidate who has been 
qualiﬁ ed for more than one course will be selected for one course giving priority to the preference order of 
applicant’s preference for the courses.
  After admission to a Course in a National College of Education, permission will not be granted to change such 
Course/National College of Education even if the candidate is selected for another course. Change of Medium 
of Course/National College of Education under personal grievances will not be allowed after registration in 
any course of a National College of Education. 
 7.7  If the suf ﬁ cient number of applicants is not available for a particular course, the applicants will be transferred 
to the nearest College of Education where the same course is conducted.
 7.8  The authority of the ﬁ nal decision regarding cancellation of a course for which a required number of teacher 
vacancies does not exist, determination of the number of student teachers recruited and placement of courses 
in National Colleges of Education is held by Colleges of Education Board/Secretary to the Ministry of 
Education.
8.0  Persons who are not eligible for applying or admission.
 8.1 Those who have already obtained teaching appointments in Government schools, Government aided schools, 
Government Registered Pirivena or other approved Institutions.
 8.2 Those who  have  been  selected  for  a teaching appointment in a Government school.
 8.3 Those who  are  following  or   who  have followed a course in a College of Education or those who have 
deserted a course in a National College of Education.
 8.4 Those who are following or have registered for or followed a degree course or have registered for or followed 
a Professional course/higher diploma under privileges of state free Education, registered as an internal student 
in a University or University Institute or any other Higher Education Institute where G.C.E. (A/L) is the entry 
requirement. (Students, who withdraw the registration after the Gazette Notiﬁ cation is published, will not be 
eligible for applying or admission. Applicants who get registered and withdraw their registration of the above 
institutions after the Gazette Notiﬁ cation is published/appearing in the interview too will not be eligible for 
admission.)
 8.5 Student Teachers whose  registration  in  a National college of Education has been terminated on disciplinary 
grounds or any other reasons.
 8.6 Applicants those who are married or engaged to marry or divorced.
9.0  Conditions applicable for the course :
 9.1. Duration of a course is three years.This period consists of two year residential institutional training in the National 
College of Education and one year internship training attached to a school. Attendance of a student teacher should 
be not less than 90% to enable him/ her to sit for the External Final Examination conducted by the Department of 
Examinations at the end of the second year.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
182
 9.2 Every student teacher should pass in the internal continuous assessments and the internal tests held in the ﬁ rst and 
the second year and the External Final Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations. Except those 
who follow English medium courses, all those who follow other courses should pass in the English subject at the 
above examinations.
 9.3 During the period of two year residential course of study, a student teacher will be provided with meals and 
lodging facilities to the value of Rs. 5,000/ per month for ten (10) months in a year. During the internship year, 
a monthly allowance of Rs. 5,000/- will be paid for ten (10) months. Other expenses for personal requirements 
should be borne by the student teacher.
 9.4 Student teachers who register in a National college of Education should sign in a bond and agreement with the 
Secretary to the Ministry of Education to the value of ﬁ ve hundred thousand Rupees (Rs. 500,000.00) for the 
expenditure made by the government for the course of the applicant and the provision of other infra-structure 
facilities. If the candidates give up the course within sixty (60) calendar days of registration at the National 
college of Education, they are allowed to do so after paying the sum spent by the government for the student 
teacher.  If the candidates give up the course after sixty (60) calendar days of registration at the National College 
of Education, they should pay the whole sum mentioned in the bond and the agreement (Rs.500,000.00). A 
candidate that does not attend the course work for period not less than a month without any proper notice, they 
will be considered deserters and be dismissed from the course after the whole sum mentioned in the bond and the 
agreement (Rs.500,000.00) is charged. 
  Student teachers who do not accept the appointment to a government school after the successful completion of the 
course, should pay the whole sum mentioned in the bond and the agreement (Rs.500,000.00) to the government. 
Those who do not serve the government for ﬁ ve (05) years after successfully completing the course should pay 
the sum for the remaining period (counted in months) to complete 05 years. it is calculated as below;
  Rs. 500, 000   × remaining number of months to complete
    60
  9.4.1 If a candidate gives up the course due to special medical reasons during the training, the following 
documentary evidence should be submitted to prove the existing condition of the ailment.
  • Acceptable records of diagnosis, medical checkups and prescriptions.
  • A letter of a government medical of ﬁ cer con ﬁ rming the inability of the student teacher to continue the 
course of study further.
   Management board of the particular National College of Education will forward their observations and 
recommendations after checking the above documents. Considering the above recommendations,  a  board 
consisting of of ﬁ cials of the Ministry of Education and  a  board of medical of ﬁ cers will submit their 
recommendations for the  approval  of  the  Colleges of  Education  Board/ Secretary to the Ministry of 
Education. With this approval, the student teacher will be permitted to resign from the course with no 
payment.
  9.4.2 No student teacher is permitted to go abroad during the course or until the period permanent appointment 
is given, except when duly resigned.
 9.5 If a student teacher’s registration happened to be terminated on disciplinary grounds or being found out that he/
she has submitted false information or for harbouring true information in relation to para. 8.0 above under Persons 
who are not eligible for applying or admission, the student teacher will be surcharged the whole amount incurred 
for him/her in the bond (Rs.500, 000.00).
 9.6  During the period of course a student teacher will not be allowed to follow a course mentioned in section 8.4. if it 
is found out that a student teacher is following such a course, the sum of the bond and agreement (Rs.500, 000.00) 
incurred for him/her will  be surcharged and the student teacher’s registration will be terminated.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
183
 9.7 If the student teacher gets married/engaged to marry during the period of course or found to be married/engaged 
to marry/divorced before the registration/at the time of applying for the course, the studentship will be terminated. 
Those who get divorced giving various reasons after being found to be married too will not be given studentship.
 9.8  If the clergy that are recruited under special provisions for those who hold priesthood are disrobed within the 
period of course the sum of the bond and agreement (Rs.500, 000.00) incurred for him/her will be surcharged and 
the studentship will be terminated.The clergy of any religion should sign a bond and agreement with the Ministry 
of Education for at least 5 years service without being disrobed after the completion of the course. If disrobed for 
any reason, the amount for the remaining number of years (counted in months) should be paid to the government. 
it is calculated as below:
   Rs. 5,00,000   × remaining number of months to complete.
    60 
 • If disrobed during the probation period, such clergy will be surcharged the relevant amount and dismissed.
 9.9 If a student teacher fails to exhibit the progress expected in his general conduct, enthusiasm and studies during 
the study course (inclusive of co-curricular activities), their studentship will be terminated.  Likewise, studentship 
of those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the assessment during the ﬁ rst year of academic training will be 
terminated. Decision of the Colleges of Education Board/ Secretary to the Ministry of Education shall be ﬁ nal, 
regarding these matters.
 9.10 If any complaints are received in relation to the physical and mental ﬁ tness of the student teacher either by the 
President of the College during the course or by the Principal of the school during the internship period the student 
teacher will be referred to a special interview. Final decision will be taken after the submission of that report to 
the Colleges of Education Board/ Secretary to the Ministry of Education.
 9.11 If the student teacher is proved to have engaged themselves in any action against the code of conduct of National 
Colleges of Education, Colleges of Education Board/Secretary to the Ministry of Education holds the authority 
of taking disciplinary action such as suspension to academic classes/extension of the course/ termination of 
studentship/any other suitable punishment under the recommendation of the disciplinary board of the particular 
National College of Education.
 9.12 Student teachers are not permitted to follow any other course during weekdays or at weekends outside the college.
 9.13 If a teacher holding a National Diploma in Teaching, for any reason, resigns from service or resigns and goes 
abroad within the ﬁ rst ﬁ ve years of service, they should pay the amount for the remaining time (calculated in 
months) out of the whole amount mentioned in the bond and the agreement (Rs. 5,00,000) to the government. It 
is calculated as below:
                              Rs. 5,00, 000 × remaining number of months to complete.
         60
  NOTE –
 Those who resign during the ﬁ rst ﬁ ve years of service as mentioned in 9.13 will not be permitted to re-enter 
service as a holder of National Diploma in Teaching.
 
  National Diploma Holders are not eligible to claim for the detailed certiﬁ cate if they have not completed ﬁ ve 
(05) years active service in a government school. 
  
National Diploma holders who have not completed the ﬁ rst ﬁ ve (05) year active service and within the 
probation period are granted no pay leave to go abroad only for study purposes under the provisions of 
circular 24/2017 of the Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Gazette Notiﬁ cation, bond, agreement, rules 
and regulations of the Establishment Code and the laws in function at the time.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
184
  National Diploma holders who have not completed the ﬁ rst ﬁ ve (05) year active service and have been 
conﬁ rmed in the service are granted no pay leave to go abroad for study/ job purpose under the provisions of 
circular 24/2017 of the Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Gazette Notiﬁ cation, bond, agreement, 16th 
clause of the Chapter XII of the Establishment Code and the laws in function at the time.
 9.14 National Diploma in Teaching will be awarded to the student teachers who will successfully complete the course, 
Course Work and Personality Development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be continuously 
assessed during the period of course and  this  assessment  will  form   a component of the ﬁ nal assessment in 
awarding the diploma.
 9.15 The student teachers who successfully complete the National Diploma in Teaching will be given appointments as 
teachers to the government Schools. They should agree to serve in any part of the island if there are no vacancies in 
the relevant district/province, although they are under district/provincial/national basis. (The Conditions stipulated 
under 4.30/ 4.31 are relevant for the course of Second Language - Sinhala/ Tamil) Colleges of Education Board/
Secretary to the Ministry of Education holds the authority of placement subjected to the approval of Education 
Service Committee of the Public Services Commission. 
 9.15.1. 
The applicants who are called for interviews for recruitment should appear for the interview only if they 
agree to the above conditions.
 9.15.2. Applicants who follow the course under the above conditions should teach the same subject that they 
are studying. In addition to that, after completing the National Diploma inTeaching, the applicants who 
are recruited on district/provincial/ National basis should sign a bond and agreement with the Secretary 
to the Ministry of Education stating that they will serve in the relevant district/ province which they get 
their ﬁ rst appointment based on their district/province of permanent residence or the district named under 
national basis or any district/province where the ﬁ rst appointment is given for a minimum period of ﬁ ve 
(05) years from the date of ﬁ rst appointment as a condition of service.
 9.16. If any applicant claims to change the selected National College of Education by the Ministry of Education on 
medical/ personal reasons, S/he will not be eligible for admission.
 9.17. Any improper in ﬂ uence made to the relevant ofﬁ cials by the applicant himself/ herself or any other party related 
to the applicant during the recruitment procedure will be considered a disqualiﬁ cation in recruitment.
 9.18. All educational and other quali ﬁ cations in relation to the course applied by the applicant should have been 
completed on or before the last date (15.02.2019) of calling for applications.
 9.19. If any applicant expects to submit an appeal regarding interviews or selections, such appeals can be submitted 
between the ﬁ rst date of interviews and a month after the ﬁ rst date of registration. The relevant form which will 
be published in the ofﬁ cial website of the Ministry of Education during the relevant period of time should be sent 
duly ﬁ lled to the Ministry of Education to the given address with certi ﬁ ed copies of the documents of evidence 
and a certiﬁ ed photocopy of the application. 
 9.20. In case of insuf ﬁ cient number of qualiﬁ ed applicants according to the order of performance in district/provincial 
/national level for a particular course in a National College of Education to be recruited in the relevant medium 
from the particular district, the remaining number of vacancies will be ﬁ lled giving priority to the courses that 
have highest teacher requirement in the education system among the other courses that are conducted in the 
particular National College of Education. (Except for the occasions indicated in  ‘NOTE’ – iv under ‘Primary 
Education Course’ and 6.3.8 mentioned under ‘selection to Sripada National College of Education Course.

<!-- page 35 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
185
10.0   Applying:
  Applications should be prepared with a good understanding of the number recruited for each course on 
district basis as mentioned in paragraphs7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 of 7.0 under the column ‘Instructions to Prepare 
the Application’.
 10.1.  Special Note;
 10.1.1.  It is compulsory that every applicant submits their application through Online system, which is 
implemented as a pilot Project this time.
 10.1.2.  It is compulsory that all applicants send a duly ﬁ lled application through registered post also, in addition 
to the application submitted online because this is the ﬁ rst occasion that applications for National Colleges 
of Education are submitted online.
 10.1.3.  While online submission of application should be done only in the medium of English, 
to register online 
applicants must log in to the following URL (Uniform Resource Locater) link and enter their NIC number 
in the relevant box for the access to the computerized registration programme.
    The relevant URL Link:   ncoeadmissionmoe.net 
Application 
enter your National 
Identity Card Number
 10.2.  The following instruction should be read and understood carefully before ﬁ lling in the application forms which 
are sent through registered post.
10.2.1. Those who apply on the basis of 2016 G.C.E. (A/L) results should mention their details in relation to 
three courses in maximum according to the order of their preference in the table (1.2) provided for that 
in the application. 
10.2.2. Those who apply on the basis of 2017 G.C.E. (A/L) results should mention their details in relation to 
three courses in maximum according to the order of their preference in the table (1.3) provided for that 
in the application. 
10.2.3. If an applicant applies for National Colleges of Education admission based on the results of both 2016 
and 2017 G.C.E. (A/L) results, they can mention three courses each according to their preference in the 
tables provided (1.2 and 1.3) based on the Z score they obtained. 
10.2.4. In the event of 10.2.3 above, details should be mentioned accurately and carefully in the same application 
form for both 2016 and 2017 and two separate applications should not be sent for the two years under 
any circumstances. Submission of two applications may lead to rejection of both of them.
10.2.5. It is the responsibility of the applicant to read the Gazette notiﬁ cation carefully and apply for the courses 
that exactly match their quali ﬁ cations. Details mentioned in the application will not be allowed to be 
altered under any circumstances once the application is submitted. 
 10.3.  If applied for the same course in two media, it is considered as applying for two (02) courses. Such applicants 
can apply only for one more course. Those who are bearing priesthood in a religion should apply for the course 
pertaining to the their religion only.
Example – A candidate applying for science course both in English and Sinhala media is considered to have 
applied for two courses. 
Therefore, he/she can apply only for one more course.
–––>

<!-- page 36 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
186
 10.4. Only the applicants who apply for Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Catholicism / Christianity, Physical 
Education,W estern Music must enclose only two certiﬁ ed photocopies of the application in the same envelope.
 10.5.  No any other document should be attached to the application except what is mentioned in 10.4.
 10.6. Every section of the application should be ﬁ lled according to the Gazette notiﬁ cation and the instructions given 
in the application and the envelope in which the application is sent should be prepared according to the specimen 
given below. 
  Specimen of the envelope in which the application should be enclosed is as follows;
2018 – Application for Admission to National Colleges of Education
2016 2017
(Mark the relevant year/ years with a ‘√’)
Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education), 
National Colleges of Education Branch, 
Ministry of Education,
   Isurupaya,
   Battaramulla
  (It is emphasized that applications should not be sent to Department of Examinations or National Colleges of 
Education)
 10.7. Duly ﬁ lled applications should be sent under registered post addressed to Chief Commissioner (Teacher 
Education), National Colleges of Education Branch, Ministry of Education, ‘Isurupaya’, Battaramulla and 
through online to be received on or before 15.02.2019.
 10.8. It is compulsory to keep a photocopy of the completed application with the applicant. Applicants should submit 
the photocopy in the Interviews. In addition the registered postal  receipt and a photocopy of the application 
should be submitted in all instances of making inquiries or submitting appeals.
  Photocopies of submitted applications should not be requested from the Ministry of Education and or 
National Colleges of Education once called for interviews. No photocopies of applications will be issued 
for such candidates who are not attentive enough to the instruction given in the Gazette notiﬁ cation.
 10.9. Applications which do not clearly indicate the Index Number, Y ear,  Course Number,  the  Name  of  the  Course, 
Medium of the Course as  well  as  the  incomplete and informal applications will be rejected.
 10.10. Ministry of Education will not be responsible for the inconveniences faced by those applicants who apply 
without required qualiﬁ cations mentioned in the Gazette Notiﬁ cation for the courses.
  It is further emphasized that all requests made in relation to change of information of courses/inclusion of z 
score/change of z score/change of address or district of permanent residence/change of results/attaching of 
photocopies, after the application has been posted will be rejected. 

<!-- page 37 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
187
 10.11. Receipt or rejection of applications will not be 
acknowledged. Applying for a course/being 
called for an interview is not a quali ﬁ cation 
for the recruitment. Recruitment is made only 
by considering the vacancies of the district 
and the conditions mentioned in the Gazette 
notiﬁ cation. Colleges of Education Board/
Secretary to the Ministry of Education is 
authorized for all decisions.
 10.12. If any certi ﬁ cate submitted by the applicant is 
revealed later to be forged or fraudulent, the 
applicant’s studentship will be terminated. If in 
service, they will be dismissed and will further 
be ineligible for any post in Public Service.
11.0 Regarding any problems or speci ﬁ c situations 
arising with regard to the above information in this 
Gazette Notiﬁ cation, the decision of the Colleges 
of Education Board/ Secretary to the Ministry of 
Education will be the ﬁ nal decision.
12.0 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala 
and  
Tamil  or  English  texts  of  this  Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
    P ADMASIRI JAYAMANNE,
    Secretary,
    Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education, 
Isurupaya, 
Battaramulla,
14th January 2019.
GUIDELINES FOR PREPARING THE APPLICATION 
1.0 Applications should be forwarded in accordance with 
the guidelines and with speci ﬁ c attention to all the points 
indicated in the clauses 10.1 – 10.12 under ‘Applying’ in 10.0 
of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation. When two photocopies relevant 
to the courses mentioned in 10.4 of 10.0 are attached to the 
application, school applicants should get two photocopies 
certiﬁ ed by the Principal and the private applicants should 
get them certiﬁ ed by a Justice of Peace.
2.0 Application should be prepared in a (Legal) F5 size 
white paper (21.8 cm. x 34 cm.) in conformity with the 
specimen application form. When the correct selection 
should be provided in a box, mark “x” in the relevant box.
3.0 Please note that the computerized data sheets which 
will be used for calling applicants for the interview relating 
to each course are prepared by the Ministry of Education 
based on the information provided in sections 
1.0 to 9.8 
of the application. Especially, the Course Number, Course 
Name, District of permanent residence according to clause 
6.2.1, index Number of G.C.E. (A/L) and Z-Score should be 
conﬁ rmed accurate. Please note that the application is liable 
to be rejected owing to overlapped writing and illegible and 
erroneous writing.
4.0 The information furnished in paragraph 12.0 for 
Physical Education Course, paragraph13.0 for Buddhism 
course, paragraph 14.0 for Catholicism/ Christianity course, 
paragraph15.0 for Hinduism/ Islam course, and paragraph 
l6.0 for Western Music course are considered in processing 
the applications. Therefore, these sections should be 
completed with accurate information because the applicants 
will not be allowed to change such information under any 
circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the Districts relevant to 
paragraph 6.2.1 of 6.2 – ‘Determination of Permanent 
Residence’are indicated below:
(Chapter 4.0 of the Application should be completed 
based on this information). 
District Relevant number
Colombo 1
Gampaha 2
Kalutara 3
Kandy 4
Matale 5
Nuwara Eliya 6
Galle 7
Matara 8
Hambanthota 9
Jaffna 10
Kilinochchi 11
Mannar 12
Vavuniya 13
Mullativu 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Putlam 19
Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
6.0. Signs for medium are as follows:
       Sinhala – S, Tamil – T, English – E
 

<!-- page 38 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
188
7.0. Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 and 2017 on District Basis - 2018
7.1 Number of Student Teachers Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 on District Basis - 2018
7.1.1 Sinhala Medium
Province
Name of the 
Course
Primary Education
Science
Mathematics 
Social Science
Buddhism
Christianity /
Catholicism
First Language
(Sinhala)
Art
Dance (Oriental)
Music (Oriental)
Drama & Theatre 
Physical Education
Home Economics
Agriculture & 
Food Technology
Technical Studies  - 
Crafts & Art  
Design & Technology
Second Language 
(Sinhala)
Special Education
Design & 
Construction 
Technology  
Design & 
Mechanical 
Technology 
Design & 
Electrical 
and 
Electronic 
Technology
District
Western Colombo 73 7 6 2 9 1 5 2 2 1 2 11 2 2 1 1 0 1 5 7
Gampaha 72 6 5 1 7 2 6 2 1 2 1 10 2 2 1 0 1 1 5 7
Kalutara 43 6 6 1 9 1 4 2 1 1 1 11 2 2 1 1 1 1 5 4
Central Kandy 45 8 5 2 11 2 6 2 1 2 1 9 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 6
Matale 35 5 3 1 5 1 2 1 1 1 2 6 2 2 1 1 1 0 5 3
Nuwara Eliya 27 4 4 1 5 1 3 1 1 1 1 6 2 2 0 0 1 0 5 2
Southern Galle 54 8 7 1 9 1 5 2 2 1 1 9 2 2 1 1 1 1 6 5
Hambantota 55 7 5 1 8 1 4 2 1 1 1 8 2 2 1 1 1 0 6 4
Matara 46 6 5 2 8 1 4 2 1 2 2 10 2 2 1 1 0 1 5 5
Nothern Jaffna 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Kilinochchi 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Mannar 5 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0
Mulaitivu 9 2 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0
Vavuniya 12 2 2 1 2 0 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 2 0 0 0 1 2 1
Eastern Ampara 36 11 10 2 4 0 2 2 1 1 1 6 2 2 0 1 1 0 4 4
Batticaloa 6 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0
Trincomalee 18 7 3 1 3 0 2 1 1 1 1 3 2 2 0 0 1 1 4 3
North Western Kurunegala 78 10 12 2 8 1 8 2 2 2 1 11 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 6
Puttalam 57 10 10 1 4 2 5 1 1 1 1 10 2 2 0 1 0 1 4 4
North Central Anuradhapura 67 6 11 2 8 1 4 2 1 1 2 10 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 4
Polonnaruwa 41 7 8 1 6 1 3 2 1 1 1 7 2 2 1 1 1 0 4 3
Uva Badulla 52 8 8 2 10 1 3 2 1 1 2 9 2 2 1 1 0 1 4 3
Monaragala 48 10 10 1 6 1 4 2 1 1 1 10 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 2
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 49 8 8 1 8 1 5 2 2 1 1 9 2 2 1 1 1 1 5 3
Ratnapura 72 12 9 2 8 1 5 2 1 2 1 10 2 2 1 0 1 1 4 4
Total 1000 150 140 30 140 20 85 35 25 25 25 170 40 40 15 15 15 15 95 80
Grand Total 2160

<!-- page 39 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
189
7.0. Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 and 2017 on District Basis - 2018
7.1 Number of Student Teachers Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 on District Basis - 2018
7.1.2 Tamil Medium
Province
Name of the 
Course
Primary Education
Science
Mathematics 
Social Science
Hinduism
Islam
Christianity /Catholicism
First Language (Tamil)
Art
Dance (Bharatha)
Music (Carnatic)
Drama & Theatre 
Physical Education
Home Economics
Agriculture & Food 
Technology
Technical Studies  - Crafts
 & Art
Design & Technology
Second Language (Tamil)
Special Education
Design & 
Construction 
Technology  
Design &
 Mechanical 
Technology 
Design & Electrical 
and Electronic 
Tecnology
District
Western Colombo 32 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 0 0 0 1 1 10 0 1 0 2 1
Gampaha 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
Kalutara 43 2 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 0 1 2 1 11 0 1 1 2 1
Central Kandy 74 4 1 1 1 1 4 2 1 1 1 3 2 11 1 0 1 3 1
Matale 4 1 2 1 1 1 1 3 1 0 1 1 3 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 1
Nuwara Eliya 11 6 4 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 0 1 3 2
Southern Galle 11 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 00 1 0 0 1 1
Hambantota 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0
Matara 10 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 00 0 0 0 1 0
Nothern Jaffna 18 11 6 2 2 2 2 10 2 1 1 1 5 2 3 1 1 1 1 3 3
Kilinochchi 10 9 4 1 1 1 1 6 1 1 1 1 3 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 1
Mannar 15 7 4 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 3 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 1
Mulaitivu 11 7 3 1 1 1 1 5 2 1 1 1 3 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 1
Vavuniya 13 7 4 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 3 2
Eastern Ampara 13 6 7 1 1 1 1 8 2 1 1 1 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 3 2
Batticaloa 20 9 8 1 1 1 2 9 2 1 1 1 4 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 2
Trincomalee 19 5 5 1 1 1 1 7 1 1 1 1 3 1 2 1 1 1 0 2 2
North Western Kurunegala 63 3 0 1 1 1 3 1 0 1 0 1 0 10 0 0 0 2 1
Puttalam 84 5 1 1 2 1 4 1 1 0 0 2 1 00 0 0 1 2 2
North Central Anuradhapura 22 3 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 1 00 0 1 0 1 0
Polonnaruwa 22 1 1 1 0 0 2 1 0 0 0 1 0 10 0 0 0 2 1
Uva Badulla 43 4 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 3 2 11 1 1 1 2 2
Monaragala 31 1 1 0 0 0 2 1 0 0 0 1 0 00 0 0 0 1 1
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 91 3 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 2 1 11 1 1 1 2 1
Ratnapura 12 4 4 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 3 1 2 1 1 0 1 3 1
Total 200 100 80 20 20 20 20 100 25 15 15 15 60 30 25 15 15 15 15 50 30
Grand Total 885

<!-- page 40 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
190
7.0  Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 and 2017 on District Basis - 2018
7.1 Number of Student Teachers Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 on District Basis - 2018
7.1.3 English Medium
Province Name of the Course
English
Information 
Communication 
Technology
Science Mathematics Western Music
District
 Western Colombo 17 8 3 4 1
Gampaha 17 9 4 3 1
Kalutara 15 7 3 3 1
Central Kandy 17 9 4 3 1
Matale 11 7 3 3 1
Nuwara Eliya 13 7 2 2 0
Southern Galle 17 8 3 3 1
Hambantota 18 7 2 2 1
Matara 17 8 4 4 1
Nothern Jaffna 11 8 3 4 1
Kilinochchi 5 5 1 1 0
Mannar 5 5 1 1 0
Mulaitivu 8 5 1 1 0
Vavuniya 8 6 2 2 1
Eastern Ampara 10 8 2 3 1
Batticaloa 9 6 3 2 0
Trincomalee 8 6 2 2 0
North Western Kurunegala 20 10 4 4 1
Puttalam 14 8 2 2 0
North Central Anuradhapura 14 9 3 3 1
Polonnaruwa 10 8 2 2 0
Uva Badulla 15 9 3 3 1
Monaragala 13 8 2 2 0
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 16 10 3 3 1
Ratnapura 17 9 3 3 0
Total 325 190 65 65 15
Grand Total 660

<!-- page 41 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
191
7.0. Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 and 2017 on District Basis - 2018
7.2 Number of Student Teachers Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2017 on District Basis - 2018
7.2.1 Sinhala Medium
Province
Name of the 
Course
Primary Education
Science
Mathematics 
Social Science
Buddhism
Christianity /
Catholicism
First Language
(Sinhala)
Art
Dance (Oriental)
Music (Oriental)
Drama & Theatre 
Physical Education
Home Economics
Agriculture & 
Food Technology
Technical Studies  - 
Crafts & Art  
Design & Technology
Second Language 
(Sinhala)
Special Education
Design & 
Construction 
Technology  
Design & 
Mechanical 
Technology 
Design & 
Electrical 
and 
Electronic 
TecnologyDistrict
Western Colombo 65 8 7 2 11 1 6 2 1 2 1 9 2 2 0 1 1 1 4 5
Gampaha 69 8 6 1 8 1 5 2 2 1 1 10 2 2 1 1 1 0 5 6
Kalutara 48 7 6 2 7 1 4 2 1 1 1 9 2 2 1 1 0 1 5 5
Central Kandy 53 8 7 2 8 1 6 2 2 2 2 9 2 3 0 1 1 0 5 5
Matale 37 5 5 1 6 1 3 2 1 1 1 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 5 4
Nuwara Eliya 33 5 6 2 6 1 3 1 1 1 1 7 2 2 1 1 0 1 4 3
Southern Galle 54 8 6 2 10 1 5 2 1 2 1 10 2 2 1 1 0 1 5 5
Hambantota 46 6 7 1 6 1 4 1 1 1 2 8 2 2 1 0 1 1 5 3
Matara 44 5 6 2 7 1 4 2 2 1 1 10 2 3 0 1 1 1 4 4
Nothern Jaffna 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 000 0 0 0 0 00
Kilinochchi 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 000 0 0 0 0 00
Mannar 30 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 100 0 0 0 0 10
Mulaitivu 61 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 100 0 0 0 0 10
Vavuniya 11 3 3 0 2 0 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 0 1 0 0 3 2
Eastern Ampara 36 7 9 2 6 1 3 2 1 1 1 8 2 2 1 1 1 0 5 3
Batticaloa 50 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0 0 0 10
Trincomalee 21 6 7 1 5 1 2 1 1 1 1 5 2 1 0 0 1 0 3 2
North Western Kurunegala 73 9 8 2 9 2 6 2 2 2 1 9 2 2 1 1 1 1 6 6
Puttalam 57 9 10 1 5 1 4 1 1 1 2 10 2 2 1 1 0 1 5 4
North Central Anuradhapura 62 9 7 1 7 1 4 2 1 1 1 10 2 2 1 1 1 1 5 4
Polonnaruwa 46 8 6 2 5 1 3 2 1 1 2 8 2 2 1 0 1 1 4 3
Uva Badulla 57 9 6 2 9 1 4 2 1 1 1 8 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 3
Monaragala 51 12 11 1 7 1 3 2 1 1 1 8 2 2 1 0 1 1 4 3
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 55 7 6 2 6 1 5 2 1 2 1 10 2 2 1 0 1 1 5 5
Ratnapura 68 10 8 1 10 1 7 2 2 1 2 10 2 2 1 1 1 1 6 5
Total 1000 150 140 30 140 20 85 35 25 25 25 170 40 40 15 15 15 15 95 80
Grand Total 2160

<!-- page 42 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
192
7.0. Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 and 2017 on District Basis - 2018
7.2 Number of Student Teachers Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2017 on District Basis - 2018
7.2.2 Tamil Medium
Province Name of the 
Course
Primary Education
Science
Mathematics 
Social Science
Hinduism
Islam
Christianity /Catholicism
First Language (Tamil)
Art
Dance (Bharatha)
Music (Carnatic)
Drama & Theatre 
Physical Education
Home Economics
Agriculture & Food 
Technology
Technical Studies  - Crafts
 & Art
Design & Technology
Second Language (Tamil)
Special Education
Design & 
Construction 
Technology  
Design &
 Mechanical 
Technology 
Design & Electrical 
and Electronic 
Tecnology
District
Western Colombo 32 2 0 1 1 1 2 0 0 0 0 1 1 01 0 0 1 1 0
Gampaha 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
Kalutara 54 2 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 10 1 1 0 2 1
Central Kandy 12 6 5 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 3 1 2 1 0 1 0 3 1
Matale 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 3 0 1 1 1 2 1 1 0 1 0 1 2 1
Nuwara Eliya 95 4 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 4 2 21 1 1 0 2 2
Southern Galle 21 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 00 0 0 1 1 0
Hambantota 2 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
Matara 10 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 00 1 0 0 1 1
Nothern Jaffna 16 9 5 2 2 1 2 9 2 1 1 1 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 2
Kilinochchi 7 8 3 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1
Mannar 13 7 4 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 3 2 1 1 1 0 1 2 1
Mulaitivu 10 8 3 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 3 1 2 1 1 0 1 2 2
Vavuniya 13 6 4 1 1 1 1 5 2 1 1 1 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 3 1
Eastern Ampara 14 6 5 1 1 2 1 7 2 1 1 1 4 2 2 1 1 1 0 3 2
Batticaloa 19 4 7 2 1 1 1 9 2 1 1 1 4 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 2
Trincomalee 18 5 7 1 1 1 2 9 1 1 1 1 3 2 1 1 1 1 1 3 2
North Western Kurunegala 74 3 1 0 1 0 4 1 0 0 0 2 1 00 0 0 1 1 1
Puttalam 63 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 0 1 0 2 1 11 1 0 1 2 2
North Central Anuradhapura 32 3 1 1 0 0 3 1 0 0 0 1 1 00 0 1 1 1 1
Polonnaruwa 22 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 10 0 1 0 2 1
Uva Badulla 84 3 1 1 1 1 5 2 1 1 1 4 2 21 1 1 1 3 2
Monaragala 11 1 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 1 00 0 1 0 1 1
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 93 3 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 0 1 3 1 21 0 1 1 2 1
Ratnapura 12 6 4 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 3 2 1 1 1 1 0 3 2
Total 200 100 80 20 20 20 20 100 25 15 15 15 60 30 25 15 15 15 15 50 30
Grand Total 885

<!-- page 43 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
193
7.0  Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 and 2017 on District Basis - 2018
7.2 Number of Student Teachers Recruited to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2017 on District Basis - 2018
7.2.3 English Medium
Province Name of the Course
English
Information 
Communication 
Technology
Science Mathematics Western Music
District
 Western Colombo 17 8 4 3 1
Gampaha 16 9 3 4 1
Kalutara 17 8 4 3 0
Central Kandy 18 10 5 3 1
Matale 12 6 3 2 1
Nuwara Eliya 11 9 3 2 0
Southern Galle 20 5 3 3 1
Hambantota 15 6 3 2 1
Matara 18 6 4 3 1
Nothern Jaffna 11 10 3 3 1
Kilinochchi 5 4 1 1 0
Mannar 6 4 1 1 0
Mulaitivu 7 4 1 1 0
Vavuniya 8 7 2 2 0
Eastern Ampara 11 9 3 2 1
Batticaloa 8 8 2 2 0
Trincomalee 9 6 2 2 0
North Western Kurunegala 18 10 4 5 1
Puttalam 17 8 2 3 1
North Central Anuradhapura 12 10 1 3 1
Polonnaruwa 16 8 1 2 1
Uva Badulla 13 9 3 4 1
Monaragala 12 8 2 2 0
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 13 10 2 3 0
Ratnapura 15 8 3 4 1
Total 325 190 65 65 15
Grand Total 660

<!-- page 44 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
194
7.3  Recruitment of Student Teachers to Sripada National College of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 and 2017 on 
Plantation District Basis - 2018
7.3.1  Number of Student Teachers Recruited to the Sripada National College of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 on Plantation District 
Basis - 2018
Province Name of the Course
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
Primary Education
Science
Mathematics 
Social Science
Primary Education
Science
Mathematics 
Social Science
First Language (Tamil)
Art
Music (Carnatic)
Dance (Bharatha)
Information 
Communication 
Technology
District
Western Colombo 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 1
Kalutara 2 1 1 1 4 2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1
Central Kandy 2 2 1 1 6 2 2 2 3 2 2 1 2
Matale 2 1 1 1 5 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
Nuwara Eliya 3 2 2 2 9 4 4 3 4 2 2 2 2
Southern Galle 1 0 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1
Matara 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1
North Western Kurunegala 2 1 1 1 4 2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1
Uva Badulla 3 2 2 2 8 3 3 2 4 2 2 2 2
Monaragala 2 1 1 1 8 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 2 1 1 1 7 2 3 2 3 1 2 1 1
Ratnapura 3 2 2 2 8 3 2 2 3 2 1 2 1
Total 25 15 15 15 65 25 25 20 30 15 15 15 15
Grand Total 295

<!-- page 45 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
195
7.3  Recruitment of Student Teachers to Sripada National College of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2016 and 2017 on 
Plantation District Basis - 2018
7.3.2  Number of Student Teachers Recruited to the Sripada National College of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2017 on Plantation District 
Basis - 2018
Province Name of the Course
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
Primary Education
Science
Mathematics 
Social Science
Primary Education
Science
Mathematics 
Social Science
First Language (Tamil)
Art
Music (Carnatic)
Dance (Bharatha)
Information 
Communication 
Technology
District
Western Colombo 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 1
Kalutara 2 1 1 1 4 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
Central Kandy 2 1 1 1 6 3 2 2 2 2 1 2 1
Matale 2 1 1 1 5 2 2 2 2 1 2 1 1
Nuwara Eliya 3 2 2 2 10 3 3 3 5 2 2 2 2
Southern Galle 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 0 1 1
Matara 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 0 1
North Western Kurunegala 2 1 1 1 5 2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1
Uva Badulla 3 2 2 2 8 4 3 2 3 2 2 2 2
Monaragala 2 1 1 1 5 2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 2 1 1 1 7 2 3 2 3 1 2 2 1
Ratnapura 3 2 2 2 9 3 3 2 4 1 2 2 2
Total 25 15 15 15 65 25 25 20 30 15 15 15 15
Grand Total 295

<!-- page 46 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
196
SPECIMEN APPLICATION 
ADMISSION OF STUDENT TEACHERS TO NATIONAL COLLEGES OF EDUCATION – 2018
(It is compulsory that all the applicants read and understand the whole Gazette Notiﬁ cation relevant to admission to 
National Colleges of Education and forward their applications according to chapter 10.0 “Applying” of Gazette Notiﬁ cation 
and the guidelines provided for preparing application. Applications which are not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will be rejected. Computerized data sheets required for the selection interview will be prepared on the information 
provided from 1.0 – 9.8).
1.0 Information about the courses applied:
   1.1.  Are you applying for the Colleges of Education on the results of G.C.E. (A/L) of 2016 and the results of  G.C.E.  
    A/L) of 2017 as well?
    Yes           1  No             2
   1.2.  For the applicants who apply on the results of G.C.E. (A. Level) of 2016:
 • (For the ‘ Design and Technology’ course, the relevant English Letter should be mentioned together with 
course number.)
Preference Course
Number
Name of the
Course
Medium of Course 
(S/T/E)
1
2
3
   1.3.  For the applicants who apply on the results of G.C.E. (A/L) of 2017:
 • For the ‘ Design and Technology’ course, the relevant English Letter should be mentioned together with course 
number.
Preference Course
Number
Name of the
Course
Medium of Course 
(S/T/E)
1
2
3
  
    (Details furnished by you in the tables 1.2 or 1.3 of 1.0 will not be amended under any circumstance).
2.0    2.1  Name with initials in English (in Block Letters) example: Mr.PERERA R. C.  
    Rev. /Mr./Miss:…………………………………………………………………………………………… ...……
          2.2 Name in full in English (in Block Letters): ……………………………………………………………… ...……
    ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………. ...........
3.0    3.1 Permanent residential address in English (in Block Letters): ……………………………………… ..…………..
        ……………………………………………………………………………………………………… ...…………
   3.2 TelephoneNo. : ………………………………… ...................................................................................…………
4.0   4.1 District of permanent residence, according to para. 6.2.1 in Gazette Notiﬁ cation: ……………… ...……………
   4.2 District No. according to the table – 5.0 ‘Guidelines for Preparing Application’ in the Gazette Notiﬁ cation :

<!-- page 47 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
197
5.0     5.1  Date of Birth : Year:  Month: Date:
   5.2  National Identity Card No.:
6.0  Sex :  Male            1                   Female                   2
7.0  Ethnicity:
     Sinhalese Sri LankanTamil Tamil of Indian Origin Muslim  Others
     1 2 3 4 5
8.0 Results of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in year 2016 or/and 2017:
   8.1. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination – 2016: 
    8.1.1. Did you appear for G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in 2016?   Yes         1 No           2
     • If your answer is ‘Yes’
         8.1.2. 
Subject Stream you appeared for the Examination: 
  Biology Physical Science  Commerce Art Technology Other
  1 2 3 4 5 6
         8.1.3. Medium of the Examination:    Sinhala  Tamil English
     1 2 3
     
      8.1.4. Index No.:   Attempt of the Examination:––––––––––
    8.1.5  Z - score :                          If Z-Score is minus indicate ‘M’ in this box: 
        8.1. 6. Details of results(core subject):
     Subject No. Subject  Grade
     1. ........................ ........................ ........................
     2. ........................ ........................ ........................
     3. ........................ ........................ ........................
 
     8.2.  G. C. E. (A/L) Examination – 2017:
    8.2.1. Did you appear for G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in 2017 ?  Yes    1 No   2
     •  If your answer is ‘Yes’
    8.2.2. 
Subject Stream you appeared for the Examination: 
     Biology Physical Science Commerce Art Technology  Others
     1 2 3 4 5 6
    8.2.3. Medium of the Examination :   Sinhala  Tamil  English
      1 2 3
   
    8.2.4. Index No.:                                     Attempt of the Examination:––––––––––

<!-- page 48 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
198
    8.2.5  Z - score :                          If Z-Score is minus indicate ‘M’ in this box: 
       8.2. 6. Details of results (core subject):
     Subject No. Subject  Grade
     1. ........................ ........................ ........................
     2. ........................ ........................ ........................
     3. ........................ ........................ ........................
9.0
 9.1.  The highest grade obtained by the applicants of the English Medium courses for English Language or English 
  Literature at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination:           Subject No.:
          Index No.:                                                           Year:
   9.2.  Are you applying for Sripada National College of Education?       Yes :                    No : 
 9.3.  
If 'yes' indicate whether you are an estate worker’s child (by marking ‘X’ in the relevant box):Yes:        No : 
 9.4.  Total Marks entered for section 12.0 in the application by the applicants of Physical Education of Sinhala/Tamil 
Medium :
 9.5.  9.5.1.  The highest grade obtained for the subject of Sinhala Language and Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination by the applicants who apply for First Language (Sinhala) or Second Language (Sinhala) 
course :
       Subject No.:  
   Index No.:    Year:
  9.5.2. The highest grade obtained for the subject of Tamil Language and Literature at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination 
by the applicants who apply for First Language (Tamil) or Second Language (Tamil) course:
       Subject No.:  
   Index No.:    Year:
 9.6.  The highest grade obtained for the subject of English Literature at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination by the applicants 
who apply for English course :
        Subject No.:
   Index No.:  Year: 
 9.7.  The highest grade obtained for the subject of English Language at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination by the applicants 
who apply for English course :  
        Subject No.:
   Index No.:  Year: 
 9.8.  The highest grade obtained for the subject of Information Communication Technology at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination by the applicants who apply for Information Communication Technology course :
        Subject No.:
   Index No.:  Year: 

<!-- page 49 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
199
10.0    10.1.  If you have appeared for G. C. E. (A/L) Examination prior to year 2016, indicate details in full in each sitting  
even if you appeared only for one main subject:
  10.1.1. No. of the attempt in the examination  1  2
  10.1.2. Year   ....................... .......................
  10.1.3. Index No.  ....................... .......................
  10.1.4. Z – score:   ....................... .......................
  10.1.5. Subjects passed and Grades:
   (FirstAttempt)  (Second Attempt)  
    Subject Grade Subject Grade
  1. ……………..          …………..     1.  ………………  ……….....
  2. ……………..          …………...  2.  ………………  ……….....
  3. ……………..          …………...  3.  ………………  ……….....
 10.2 If you have appeared for G. C. E. (A/L) Examination prior to year 2017, indicate details in full in each sitting .
even if you appeared only for one main subject:
  10.2.1. No. of the attempt in the examination  1  2
  10.2.2. Year   ....................... .......................
  10.2.3. Index No.  ....................... .......................
  10.2.4. Z – score:   ....................... .......................
  10.2.5. Subjects passed and Grades:
   (FirstAttempt)  (Second Attempt)   
    Subject Grade Subject Grade
  1. ……………..          …………..     1.  ………………  ……….....
  2. ……………..          …………...  2.  ………………  ……….....
  3. ……………..          …………...  3.  ………………  ……….....
 10.3 If you are an applicant of Information Communication Technology, have you passed General Information 
Technology Examination (GIT) in Grade 12?
  Yes No 
 
11.0. Particulars of G.C.E. (O/Level) Examinations passed:
         (When indicating the results of Category Subjects, it is compulsory to mention subjects of 1st, 2nd, 3rd Categories 
respectively under I, II, III of this table.)
11.1 Attempt of the examination 1 st Attempt 2 nd Attempt 3 rd Attempt 
11.2 Year
11.3 Index No.
11.4 No. of the Examination Centre
11.5 Subjects passed and Grades
Religion (Buddhism/ Hinduism/ Islam/ 
Catholicism/ Christianity)
Medium Language (Sinhala Language & 
Literature/Tamil Language & Literature)
English Language
Mathematics
History /Social Studies & History
Science / Science & Technology 
Category Subjects (CategoryI, II, III respectively)
I.
II.
III.

<!-- page 50 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
200
12.0 Particulars of sports competency according to the clauses 4.20.3 and 4.20.4 of Section 4.20 of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation: 
Section 4.20 of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation:
 (Only the applicants who apply for Physical Education course should complete).
 You should pay attention to all the clauses of 4.20 when completing this part. It will be suf ﬁ cient to present the 
particulars of only the highest three victories of sports /events. If you have appeared for Health and Physical Education 
in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, the relevant mark in accordance with the Grade as it is given in 4.20.4 must be 
mentioned in the table below. The total marks of your competency on sports should be entered in 9.4 in the ﬁ rst page 
of this application.
S.No. Year Issuing Ministry/ 
Institute/Club
Level of 
representation in 
the competition. 
(e.g. International/ 
National/ 
Provincial/……..)
Sport/ 
Event
Place Secured Marks 
Relevant to 
4.20.3.1
1
2
3
Grade secured if you have appeared for Health and Physical Education at 
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination,
Marks according 
to 4.20.4
Total marks (should enter in 9.4 
of the application)
13.0 Results (if there is any) of Pirivena Final, Bauddha Dharmacharya, Pracheena Preliminary and Daham Pasal Final 
Examination according to the clause 4.5 of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation:
Examination Pirivena Final Bauddha
Dharmacharya
Pracheena
Preliminary
Daham Pasal
Final
13.1 year
13.2  index No.
13.3 center No.
13.4  subjects & grades 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
1
2
3
4
5
6
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
4

<!-- page 51 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
201
14.0  The applicants of Catholicism/Christianity should ﬁ ll the relevant part according to section 4.8 of the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation.
Name of the Course/Certiﬁ cate
Duration of the Course
From To Grade
14.1 Course in Theology (BTH).
14.2 Certiﬁ cate of Philosophy Course conducte by the National seminary.
14.3 Dharmacharya Certiﬁ cate issued by the National Catechetical Center.
14.4 Certiﬁ cate of the Diploma Course of Catholicism conducted by Deva Dharma 
Niketanaya.
14.5 Certiﬁ cate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect conﬁ rming 
that the candidate has successfully completed the study of the Religious 
Education and Training Course (Novitiate) to become a member of the clergy.
14.6 National Certiﬁ cate on Religious Knowledge (Dharmacharya) issued by 
National Christian Council.
14.7 Dharmavedi Diploma Certiﬁ cate issued by Lanka Theological College, 
Pilimatalawa.
14.8 Certiﬁ cate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics conﬁ rming that the applicant is 
Catholic/Certiﬁ cate of National Christian Council for Christians conﬁ rming 
that the applicant is a Christian.
14.9 Passing in  Christianity/  Christian Civilization at G. C. E. (A/L).
15.0  To be ﬁ lled by applicants of Hinduism/Islam with necessary particulars according to Section 4.6 /4.7 of the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation:
Name of the Course Duration Effective Date of the Certi ﬁ cate
16.0 To be completed by the applicants of the Western Music course with the particulars on competencies relevant to 
Western Music as per the terms of clause 4.18.2.3 of Paragraph 4.18 of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation:
Year Institute which issued the Certi ﬁ cate Pro ﬁ ciency/Class 

<!-- page 52 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.01.2019
202
17.0. Declaration of the Applicant:
 (i) I am aware that I have forwarded my application in accordance with paragraph10.0 of the Gazette  Notiﬁ cation, 
after reading and comprehending the Gazette Notiﬁ cation well.
 (ii) I certify that I have already acquired the quali ﬁ cations mentioned in the Gazette Notiﬁ cation relevant to the 
Courses that have been applied by me.
 (iii) I certify that the particulars furnished in the application by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any 
particulars given by me in this application are found to be false or incorrect or contradictory to the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation, I am liable to be disqualiﬁ ed before selection or to be discontinued after selection.
 (iv) I certify that I have not registered to follow a course in a University/University Institute/anyother Higher 
Education Institute/ I am not currently following a relevant course in an afore mentioned institute. I further 
certify that I agree to be discontinued from the course if it is found that the section 8.4 of the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation has been /is violated by me.
 (v) I declare that I agree to accept any punishment pronounced by the disciplinary board of the National College 
of Education and the Ministry of Education if I am found and proven to have been engaged in any action 
against the code of conduct of National Colleges of Education.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Applicant’s signature.
Date:–––––––––
18.0  Certiﬁ cation of the applicant’s residence according to Section 6.2.1.1 of paragraph 6.2.1 of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation:
I certify that this applicant's permanent resident district for minimum three years including the year, he/she appeared 
for G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the ﬁ rst sitting and two years immediately preceding to that is .................................. 
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Grama Niladhari and Of ﬁ cial Frank.
Name of Grama Niladhari:–––––––––––,
Name and Address of Grama Niladhari Division:–––––––––––, 
Date:–––––––––––.
I certify that the details attested by the Grama Niladhari are true and accurate.
 ––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Divisional Secretary and Ofﬁ cial Frank.
Name of the Divisional Secretary :–––––––––––.
Name and Address of Secretarial Division :–––––––––––. 
Date :–––––––––––.
01–750 PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.