

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of  February 19, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 23.02.2016)
BAREERAH MUSLIM LADIES ARABIC COLLEGE
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. M. S. Thowfeek, M.P.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’ s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BAREERAH MUSLIM LADIES ARABIC
COLLEGE
WHEREAS a college known as "Bareerah Muslim Ladies
Arabic College" has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka at
Mawathupola, Akurana-09, Kandy district for the purpose
of effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and
matters connected with the said College, according to the
rules agreed to by the Board of management of the College.
AND WHEREAS the said College has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–
1. This Act may be cited as the Bareerah Muslim Ladies
Arabic College (Incorporation) Act,  No.   of 2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College (hereinafter referred
to as the "College") and shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession under the name
and style of "the Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College"
(hereinafter referred to as "the Corporation") and by that
name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:–
(a) to produce Islamic Theologists to lead the
community under the Islamic law of "Shariaa";
(b) to protect Islam;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of Bareerah
Muslim
Ladies
Arabic
College.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to produce "Hafidhs" who have learnt the Holy
Quran by heart;
(d) to promote and foster unity within the Islamic
community and find solutions for problems of such
community;
(e) to promote the policies of "Sunnath Wal Jamaath"
within the Islamic community;
(f) Learning and Teaching Islam in Arabic Language
according to Al Quran and Al Hadhees;
(g) Teaching Sinhala, Tamil, English and Urdu
languages;
(h) Providing opportunity to students to study Islam
based on the syllabus approved by the Ministry of
Education and guiding the students to GCE
Ordinary Level and GCE Advanced Level
Examinations;
(i) Organizing and Conducting a separate unit for the
Social Welfare, Economic Development and
Educational Improvement of Muslim Ladies;
(j) to promote and foster the policies of the "Sunnath
Wal Jamaath" based on holy propagation of
"Thableekh" with the "Fikh" (concepts of the School
of Thought) laws of the "Shafiee Madhhab" and the
Belief in "Al Ashariya" ; and
(k) to do all such acts and things as are in the opinion
of the Corporation connected to any of the above
and beneficial to the growth of the College.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
4. (1) The management, control and administrations
of the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act
be administered by a Board of Management consisting of
fifteen members elected in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation from among persons who shall be leaders in the
community and theologians, including the President, two
Vice Presidents, two joint Secretaries, the Treasurer, the
Assistant Treasurer and Eight Committee Members. One of
the Joint Secretaries shall be a teacher in the College.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall be the Board of Management of the College holding
office on the day preceding the date of commencement of
this Act and which shall hold office until a new Board of
Management is elected in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation.
(3) The office bearers of the Corporation shall hold office
for a term of one year and be eligible for re-election.
5. A committee members shall–
(a) be a person who lives within the bounds of the
Islamic law of "Shariaa";
(b) be a person of good character and will be respected
by the Islamic community; and
(c) be a person who respects the law of "shariaa" and the
Theologians.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do
perform and execute all such acts, as are necessary or desirable
for the promotion of furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation  or anyone of them, including the power to
25
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Qualifications
of the
committee
members.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
any money with or without security, to receive or collect
grants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at any general meeting and by the vote of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law for all or any of the following matters :–
(a) the admission, resignation and expulsion of
members of the Corporation;
(b) election of office  bearers;
(c) powers, duties and functions of the Board of Directors
and office-bearers of the Corporation;
(d) the conduct of meetings of the Board of
Management and the procedures to be followed at
such meetings and the quorum of such meetings;
(e) appointment of employees of the Corporation and
their duties and functions; and the code of conduct
to be observed by such employees;
(f) courses of studies to be conducted, syllabuses of
studies, examinations and award of certificates, in
so far as such rules do not conflict with the national
or provincial education policy;"
(g) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the custody of its funds; and
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(h) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the attainment of its objects.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
(3) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in the manner as a rule may be
made under subsection (1).
8. All debt and liabilities of the College existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts
due, subscriptions and contributions payable to the College
on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose
of this Act.
9 The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
persons duly authorized by the Board, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
 (3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor.
(4) In this section "qualified auditor" means–
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka, or of any other institute established
by law, possesses a certificate to practice
Debts due by
and payable
to the
College.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Accounts of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Accountant  issued by the Council of
such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka or of any other Institute establised
by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
subscription, gift, grant, testamentary disposition or
otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act, and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which is or are by rule prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its members.
13. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the republic or of any body politic or
corporate or any other person.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
republic and
others.
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Bareerah Muslim Ladies Arabic College
 (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .