

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2260$61 – 2021 foieïn¾ 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2021'12'30
No. 2260/61 – THURSDAY, DECEMBER  30, 2021
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 35717 – 14 (2021/12)
 My No: id.s$j;=/4/2021.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT. CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Chilaw Plantation s Limited, No. 165, Puttalam Road, Chilaw of the one 
part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s Union, No .06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the other part on 5th November, 2020 is 
hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon 
(Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour, 
Labour Secretariat, 
Colombo 05.
20th December, 2021.
Collective Agreement No. 15 of 2021.
Plantation staﬀ  collective agreements with chilaw plantations limited and ceylon estate staﬀ s' union from 1st August 2020 
to 31st July 2023.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 2A
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - CLERICAL STAFF
THIS Collective Agreement entered into between the Chilaw Plantation s Limited having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 165, 
Puttalam Road, Chilaw of the First part and the Ceylon Estate S taﬀ s' Union of  No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the 
Second Part, made and entered into on the 5th day of  November Two Thousand Twenty witness as follows:
1. TITLE  
 This Agreement shall be known as the Chilaw Plantations Limite d Collective Agreement for Clerical Staﬀ .
2. EMPLOYERS COVERED AND BOUND  
 This Agreement shall bind the management of the Chilaw Plantations Limited, whose name is mentioned as ﬁ rst part for 
and in respect of the categories of employees hereafter described  in Clause 3  hereof .
3. UNION AND EMPLOYEES COVERED AND BOUND
 
 This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referred to  as the Union and members of 
the said Union who are employed by Chilaw Plantations Limited on monthly contracts of employment and in respect of 
whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule 1 hereon.
4. EARLIER AGREEMENTS
 
 The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and 
shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard to 
the existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference to the 'disputes 
committee' and thereafter Commissioner General of Labour in ter ms of the Industrial Disputes Act if the matter is not 
resolved before the 'disputes committee', but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade union action 
on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION
 
 Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shall be eﬀ ective from  1st August, 2020 to 31st July, 2023 and 
shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 31st of July, 2023.
6. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
 i. The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement  shall only come into force on the lst August, 2020 and 
shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with eﬀ ect from 
the said date.
 ii. Grading of employees covered shall at the discretion of th e employer.
 iii. All Chief Clerks will be re designated as Administrative Oﬃ  cers, upon  completion of  10 years of satisfactory 
service under the same employer. Chief Clerks/Administrative Oﬃ   cers upon completion of a diploma course 
accepted by the management and on the discretion of the managem ent shall be re-designated as Special Grade 
Administrative Oﬃ  cers  with a minimum of 01 increment.
 iv. Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the  same employer, Junior Clerk shall be re-designated  as 
Clerk with a minimum of 01 increment.
 v. Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what   is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to 
enjoy same.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 3A
7. FIRST APPOINTMENT 
 i. No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agre ement unless he has successfully completed the G.C.E. 
(Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathem atics. This will not apply to those who have  
experience  in the trade.
 ii. All designations of new recruits should be as speciﬁ  ed under Schedule l hereof.
 iii. Storekeepers are to be placed  in a grade that is compara ble to those in the Clerical grades on salary applicable to  
Clerk.
8. PROBATION
 
On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation  of  not more than six months subject to the right of the 
employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of  three months at his discretion for reasons of   unsatisfactory 
performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary 
period not being extended after the period of 06 months, the em ployee shall deem to be conﬁ rmed  notwithstanding  there  
being no letter of conﬁ rmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to 
terminate without notice or assigning reasons  therefore.
9. ATTENDANCE AT WORK  
Unless otherwise speciﬁ cally instructed by the Employer and such instructions not being  of a permanent nature, an employee 
shall present himself for work on every day other than a holida y due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual 
working place and shall thereafter remain available for work throughout the normal working hours.
10. PROMOTIONS  
 i. Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparabl e, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers 
shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by  this Agreement may have appropriate skills and 
qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible.
 ii. Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 06 months and if he is conﬁ  rmed in the senior 
capacity, he will not be required to serve a period of probation.
 iii. Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity  for a period of more than one month, it should be 
communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of  Rs. Four Thousand (Rs. 4000/00) per  
mensum.  When conﬁ rmed  50% of this acting allowance shall be added to the salary.
 iv. When promoting an employees to a senior position a salary increase of minimum one (01) increment shall be 
granted.
 v. Employees who obtain a work related  course certiﬁ  cate  from NIPM or any other reputed institutions, as approved 
by the management, shall be granted special increments with reimbursement of course fee and to be considered for  
higher positions.
 vi. Overlooking periods shall not exceed 06 months and during that period the employer shall pay the employee 
Rs. Four Thousand (Rs. 4000/00) as an overlooking allowance. Th is functional allowance shall not attract any 
consequential beneﬁ ts such as EPF and ETF.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 4A
11. SALARIES  
 1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with eﬀ ect from 1st August, 2020 shall 
be as follows:
 
  i. With eﬀ  ect from 1st August, 2020, the salaries of all employees in em ployment  shall be increased by 20% based 
on last drawn salary.
 ii. With eﬀ  ect from 1st August, 2020 all employees in  employment  shall be eligible to receive the newly introduced 
salary increases and allowances granted by the Government to em ployees employed in government sector, 
corporations, statutory bodies, state institutions and in other  state enterprises which are relevant to Chilaw 
plantations limited. This arrangement is to ensure to minimize salary anomalies between various employment 
categories of employees in Chilaw plantations limited.
 iii. Employees who reach the maximum salary point depicted in the scale will continue to receive annual increments if 
they continue to remain within the same category.
 iv. In the case of Clerical staﬀ   who are entitled on account of work as a Stenographer or Storekeeper as the case  may  
be, such employee shall receive an allowance at the rate of 15%  of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances 
shall not be payable if the additional duties are not performed  or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and 
ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.
 v. In terms of the above salary revision, the salary revision,  applicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule II 
of this agreement.
 vi. Subject to the provisions set out in Clause 6 (1) above, t he  Chilaw Plantations Limited covered and bound shall 
pay the revised salaries as from the month of August 2020 with arrears.
 2. i. With  eﬀ  ect  from  date hereof, Employees  covered by this agreement  are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ   
quarters being provided to them, shall receive a payment described below:
 Junior Clerk = Rs. 1350/ 
 Clerk /Storekeeper = Rs. 1450/ 
 Senior Clerk = Rs.1700/ 
 Administrative Oﬃ   cer = Rs. 1850/ 
 Special Grade Administrative Oﬃ   cer = Rs. 2000/-
 ii In the event of any person not occupying quaters provided b y the Employer, such person shall be liable to disciplinary 
action.
12.  ANNUAL INCREMENTS
 i Annual Increments shall be granted automatically on completi on of a year's service. The increments will be 
awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each esta te. Where increments are awarded on a uniform 
date to all employees, in the event of an employee being conﬁ  rmed in service within six months of the date on 
which increments are awarded he shall not be entitled to any in crement and will become eligible only from the 
following year.
 ii An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way o f punishment or for general ineﬃ  ciency, after 
the employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact, In the case of deferment, the loss  of increment shall be 
continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period relev ant to the stoppage.
 iii Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to  all employees in employment from 1st August 2020.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 5A
        Previously Eﬀ  ective from
          1st August 2020
  Junior Clerk     Rs. 350/- Rs. 500/-
  Clerk/Storekeeper    Rs. 400/- Rs. 575/-
  Senior Clerk     Rs. 500/- Rs. 700/-
  Administrative Oﬃ   cer    Rs. 650/- Rs. 950/-
  Special Grade Administrative Oﬃ   cer    Rs. 1100/-
  
13. HOURS OF WORK OVERTIME
If required by the Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer, 
Each hour of Overtime work shall be calculated as per the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees Act.
   
14.  WEEKLY AND POYA HOLIDAYS
An employee will be entitled to weekly holidays on Saturday hal f day and Sunday full day as provided in the Shop 
& Oﬃ  ce Employees Act. Payment for work on such days shall be remu nerated at the prescribed statutory rates.
15. STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
All employees covered by this agreement will be entitled to mer cantile holidays as provided in the Shop & Oﬃ  ce 
Employees Act.
Thaipongal day
Independence day
Day  prior to Sinhala/Tamil New Year
Sinhala/Tamil New year Day
May Day
Day following Wesak Full Moon Poya Day
Holy Prophet's Birthday (Milad Un Nabi)
Christmas day
 Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated accordi ng to the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Emplyees 
Act.
16. LEAVE
 1 (i)  Annual Leave
14 days shall be granted as prescribed in the Shop Oﬃ  ce Employees Act. All employees with more than 20 years 
service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three weeks paid Annual Leave as a special beneﬁ t. This right 
shall not extend to any Employees recruited after 1st September 1993.
 2  Casual Leave
All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (07) days Casual Leave with full pay, not more 
than three (03) days being taken at a time. Casual Leave not ta ken in any one year will not be carried over to the 
next year.
 3 (i) Sick Leave
Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 workin g days in a year. Sick Leave will be granted up 
to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certi ﬁ cate. For leave of three days and over, a medical 
certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to 
the right of the employer to call for a medical certiﬁ cate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 6A
 (ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his f ull quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave. which 
he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged ill ness, in a succeeding year, subject to the condition 
however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 working days on that account.
 (iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit a higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall be permitted 
to countinue to enjoy such concession as personal to him/her.
 4  Maternity leave
 1 Maternity Leave will be granted as per Shop & Oﬃ   ce Employees Act. Accordingly, 84 working days of maternity 
leave will be granted on live child birth.
 2 Additional leave will be granted on half month's salary, upon employees request, until the age of six months to the 
infant.
 3 Paternity leave of 3 days will be granted to the father of t he child.
17. ADMINSTRATIVE TRANSFERS
 i. Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of ch ildren or employement of a spouse will subject to 
the exigencies of the service and the requirement of the Employ er, be made at the discretion of the Management 
with one month's notice in writing.
 ii. Transfers from one state to another or form one divison to  another which are likely to cause hardship on account 
of children's schooling or the spouse's employement shall be ma de at the end of the year with three calendar 
month's notice.
 iii.  Employees whose children are sitting for the G.C.E. OL/AL examination for the ﬁ rst time will not be transferred in 
that particular year.
 iv. The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitt ed to Grade 01 in School also will be considered.
 v.  No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transfered,  except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior 
to his retirement.
 vi The provisions of sub-clause (1) to (5) above shall not app ly to transfers on disciplinary grounds but the Management 
shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of  each case.
18.  AGE OF RETIREMENT
 i Unless the letter of appointment speciﬁ  es a higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 yea rs and will be 
applicable to those who are in employment as at the date of sig ning this Agrrement.
19.  GRA TUITY
Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gra tuity Act, No. 12 of 1983. 
  
20.  DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES
 i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pen ding an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of  the peace, damage to property or disturbance 
of business needs to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended  without pay he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general 
manner of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 7A
 ii An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a discip linary investigation and inquiry, where the 
Management deems that such measure is necessary.
 iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show cause ' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged 
against him and the employee shall be granted not less than sev en (7) clear working days in which to give the 
answer or explanation. Where necessary the employee may request  further time and the Employer shall permit a 
reasonable amount of time depending on the nature of the charge s, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, 
other than in exceptionable circumstances.
 iv If the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges 
and where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for w ork. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, 
the Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasona ble length of time and shall commence such 
inquiry within 30 working days from the date on which the explanation to the 'shoe cause' letter is received unless 
circumstances prevent the employer from doing so.
 v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to def end him at the inquiry. Such representative 
shall not be a professional. If the employee wishes to have the  beniﬁ t of such representation he shall inform the 
Superintendent of the name of the person defending him at least  48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. 
The Superintendent may object to the individual selected, in wh ich event the accused employee may nominate 
another representative. The failure of an employee to be defend ed by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
 vi The Employer shall endeavor to give the ﬁ  nding and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working 
days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless th ere is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no case shall 
the ﬁ ndings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conslusion of the inquiry, save and except in the 
case of a pending criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the above exception 
does not apply the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
 vii Notwithstanding the above provisons, an employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee 
summarily, In such event, the letter of termination shall set o ut of the reasons for termination, including the 
justiﬁ cation for summary termination. In such event, the union may a ppeal to the employer or to the appropriate 
forum.
21. SUSPENSION PENDING DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES
 i An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a per iod not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary 
inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of t he Employer of a Charge or charges of misconduct 
against him. Such suspension shall be in writing.
 ii Suspension of an employee in the ground referred to in sub clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month 
shall be on half pay.
 iii The provisions contained in sub-clause (i) & (ii) above sh all not apply to the suspension of an employee pending 
inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit V eriﬁ cation.
22. SUSPENSION AS A MEASURE OF PUNISHMENT
 i Punishment for oﬀ  ences in the case of an employee may include suspension provided however that such suspension 
shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
 ii Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay s hall only be after a domestic inquiry,

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 8A
23. V ARIATIONS OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT & DISPUTES
 i. Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of th is Agreement, they will not seek to vary alter or add 
to any of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mut ual consent.
 ii Any employee enjoing a beneﬁ  t which is over and above the normal entitlement shall continu e to enjoy the 
same as personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to 
consumption of electricity where a limit is ﬁ  xed for all employees.
 iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement s hall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner 
General of Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act and if no settlement could be reached by voluntary arbitration 
thereafter.
 iv It is agreed by and between parties that the unions, collec tively or independently, or their members, shall not 
resort to any form of trade union action on any matter covered by this agreement or is connected therewith.
24. DISPUTES RESOLUTION COMMITTEE
 i. It is agreed by parties that the Disputes Resolution Committee will meet once in three months to resolve any 
dispute that may arise in relation to any violation of the prov isions of this Agreement. However, in case of an 
urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks' notice if requested by either party.
 ii. Decisions arrived by the Dispute Resolutions Committee sha ll be implemented within the period agreed between 
the  parties.
 
25. DUTY LEA VE 
 i. Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent Union 
will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
 ii. Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of  the  President   and  the nominated oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent 
Union, as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (1) above, the Chilaw Plantations Limited wil l attempt to eﬀ ect an amicable 
settlement between parties.
 iii. By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of  the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave in any one year.
 iv. By mutual  arrangement with the Employer,  two Vice Presid ents  of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave each in any one  year.
 v. By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch  Cha irmen of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave which may be shared with the rnspective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly  
by  these two Oﬃ  ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year on need basis.
 vi Duty leave shall be granted to employees selected by the Un ion  to attend Seminars and workshop conducted by 
the Union or any other labour related institution in one year for a period not exceeding two days.
Part   II
1. Amalgamation and  Sub Leasing
 The Chilaw Plantation Limited covered and bound by this Agreem ent undertakes to discuss with the Union to resolve 
any issues relevant to employees in  a  situation  of amalgamat ion/sub leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to 
such situations. However, Chilaw Plantation Limited will continue to be the  employer of such  employees.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 9A
2. Electricity
 Free electricity would be granted to members of staﬀ   on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been 
enjoying in the  past.
Senior Staﬀ   -   140 units
Junior Staﬀ   -   100 units
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months o n the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that costs each  
estate.
3.  Kerosene
Employer shall provide 25 liters kerosene per mensem to those e mployees resident on estates/divisions  without 
electricity.
4.  Coconut Allowance
The employer shall provide 40 coconuts to members of estate sta ﬀ  (Including future recruits) at the cost of Rs. 1/00 
per nut irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
5.  Drinking Water Allowance
 The employer agrees to provide 500 liters of  drinking water p er month to every staﬀ  members employed  on required 
estates.
6.  Accident Insurance Scheme
The employer agrees to provide an Accident insurance scheme covering all staﬀ  members employed  in estates under 
their  management.
7.  Festival Advance
All  employees will be paid a sum of Rs.15,000/- interest free  advance, before two weeks in respect of their festivals, 
which will be recovered in 10 equal installments.  Any future revision will  be on mutual  agreement.
8.  Medical Aid Scheme
 i. The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be  5%  and the Employers' contribution  shall be 10%
 ii. A staﬀ   member  who is a  member of the staﬀ   medical  aid  scheme  will  be  paid the total balance lying to his/
her credit in  the fund inclusive of the Company's contribution  to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or 
termination of his/her employment from  the estate.
9. Death Grant
 i. With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ  member, the dependents will be paid a sum of Rs. l00,000/- 
as funeral expenses.
 ii.  The    dependents of the deceased staﬀ  member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months sal ary within  
one month upon the death of the employee  and the balance  at the time the dependents hand over the staﬀ  quarters.
 iii. If quarters are not  provided  to the deceased  staﬀ   member, the  dependents  will be paid the sum equivalent to 3  
months salary within  one month of the death  of the staﬀ  member.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 10A
10. Union Subscriptions
 i. The employer agrees on the written request of an employee t o deduct from the wages due to such employee, the 
current monthly Union subscriptions as speciﬁ  ed by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to 
the Union and  remit  the amount so deducted to the Union by th e following month, till such time  the employee 
maintain his request.
 ii. In the event of the union being representative of less tha n 40% of the employees, no remittance in respect of check-
oﬀ  would be made thereafter.
INTERPRETATION
 
 Word Meaning
 Union means the Union referred to as the Party of the Second P art in this Agreement
 Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispu tes Act
 Employer means a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I 
hereof
 Week means  the  period  between  midnight  on any Saturday an d midnight on the succeeding  
Sunday night
 Year means a continuous period of 12 months
 Gender a reference to the masculine gender shall include the f eminine as well
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Chilaw on this 6th day of November 2020.


<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 11A
SCHEDULE I
CLERICAL STAFF SALARY RANGE
PRESENT SALARY REVISED SALARY ANNUAL INCREMENT
Junior Clerk Rs. 28508/00 Rs. 34200/00 Rs. 500/00
Clerk/Storekeeper Rs. 28720/00 Rs. 34475/00 Rs. 575/00
Senior Clerk Rs. 28933/00 Rs. 34725/00 Rs. 700/00
Administrative Oﬃ  cer Rs. 29914/00 Rs. 35900/00 Rs. 950/00
Administrative Oﬃ  cer 
(Special Grade)
Rs. 37500/00 Rs. 1100/00
 
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - OFFICER IN CHARGE
This Collective Agreement entered into between the Chilaw Plant ations Limited having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 165, 
Puttalam Road, Chilaw of the First part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s' Union of No.6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the Second 
Part, made and entered into on the 5th day of November Two Thousand Twenty witness as follows:
1  TITLE
 This Agreement shall be known as the Chilaw Plantations Limite d Collective Agreement for Oﬃ  cer In Charge
2  EMPLOYERS COVERED AND BOUND
 This Agreement shall bind the management of the Chilaw Plantat ions Limited, whose name is mentioned as ﬁ rst part for 
and in respect of the categories of employees hereafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3  UNION AND EMPLOYEES COVERED AND BOUND
This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union and members of 
the said Union who are employed by Chilaw Plantations Limited on monthly contracts of employment and in respect of 
whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule 1 hereon.
4  EARLIER AGREEMENTS
The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and 
shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard to 
the existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference to the 'disputes 
committee' and thereafter Commissioner General of Labour in ter ms of the Industrial Disputes Act if the matter is not 
resolved before the 'disputes committee', but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade union action 
on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5  DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION
Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shall  be eﬀ ective from 1
st August 2020 to 31st July 2023 and 
shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 31st of July 2023.  

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 12A
6  GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 i The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st August 2020 and 
shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with eﬀ ect from 
the said date.  
 ii Grading of employees covered shall at the discretion of the  employer.
 iii All Senior Oﬃ   cers In Charge upon completion of 10 years of satisfactory se rvice and a diploma/ Degree in 
Agriculture/ plantation Management from a recognized institution and on the discretion of the management, shall 
be re - designated as Special Grade Oﬃ  cer in charge with a minimum of 01 increment
 iv Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer, Oﬃ  cer In Charge Shall be re-designated 
as Senior Oﬃ  cer In Charge with a minimum of 01 increment. 
 v Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than that is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to enjoy 
same. 
7 FIRST APPOINTMENT
 i No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agree ment unless he has successfully completed the G. C. 
E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/ Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have 
experience in the trade. 
 ii All designations of new recruits should be as speciﬁ  ed under Schedule I hereof. 
8  PROBATION
On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation  of not more than six months subject to the right of 
the employer to extend the probationary period for a further pe riod of three months at his discretion for reasons of 
unsatisfactory performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in the event 
of the probationary period not being extended after the period of 06 months, the employee shall deem to be conﬁ rmed 
notwithstanding there being no letter of conﬁ rmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer 
shall have the right to terminate without notice or assigning reasons therefore.
9 ATTENDANCE AT WORK
Unless otherwise speciﬁ cally instructed by the Employer and such instructions not bei ng of a permanent nature, an 
employee shall present himself for work on every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at 
the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for work throughout the normal working hours. 
10 PROMOTIONS
 i Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable , seniority shall be given preference. The Employers 
shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by  this Agreement may have appropriate skills and 
qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible. 
 ii Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period o f 06 months and if he is conﬁ rmed in the senior capacity, 
he will not be required to serve a period of probation. 
 iii Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be 
communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of Rs. Four Thousand (Rs. 4000/00) per 
mensum. When conﬁ rmed 50% of this acting allowance shall be added to the salary.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 13A
 iv When promoting an employees to a senior position a salary i ncrease of minimum one (01) increment shall be granted.  
 v Employees who obtain a work related course certiﬁ  cate from NIPM or any other reputed institutions, as approved 
by the management, shall be granted special increments with reimbursement of course fee and to be considered for 
higher positions. 
 vi Overlooking periods shall not exceed 06 months and during t hat period the employer shall pay the employee Rs. Four  
Thousand (Rs. 4000/00) as an overlooking allowance. This functional allowance shall not attract any consequential 
beneﬁ ts such as EPF and ETF.
11 SALARIES
 1 The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by t his agreement with eﬀ ect from 1st August 2020 shall be 
as follows. 
 i With eﬀ  ect from 1st August 2020, the salaries of all employees in employment shall be increased by 20% based on 
last dawn salary. 
 ii With eﬀ  ect from 1st August 2020 all employees in employment shall be eligible to receive the newly introduced salary 
increases and allowances granted by the Government to employees employed in government sector, corporations, 
statutory bodies, state institutions and in other state enterpr ises which are relevant to Chilaw plantations limited. 
This arrangement is to ensure to minimize salary anomalies between various employment categories of employees 
in Chilaw plantations limited.
 iii Employees who reach the maximum salary point depicted in t he scale will continue to receive annual increments if 
they continue to remain within the same category.
 iv In the case of Oﬃ   cer In Charge who are entitled on account of work as a Storek eeper as the case may be, such 
employee shall receive an allowance at the rate of 15% of the s alary drawn by him/ her. The allowances shall not 
be payable if the additional duties are not performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall 
be made in respect of this allowance. 
 v In terms of the above salary revision, the salary revision a pplicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule II 
of this agreement. 
 vi Subject to the provisions set out in Clause 6 (1) above, th e Chilaw Plantations Limited covered and bound shall pay 
the revised salaries as from the month of August 2020 with arrears.
 2 i With eﬀ  ect from date hereof, Employees covered by this agreement are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ  quarters 
being provided to them, shall receive a payment described below. 
   O ﬃ   cer In Charge  Rs. 1780/00
   Senior Oﬃ   cer In Charge  Rs. 1900/00
   Special Grade Oﬃ   cer In Charge   Rs. 2100/00
  ii In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided  by the Employer, such person shall be liable to disciplinary  
action.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 14A
12 ANNUAL INCREMENTS
 i Annual Increments shall be granted automatically on completi on of a year's service. The increments will be awarded 
in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Wher e increments are awarded on a uniform date to all 
employees, in the event of an employee being conﬁ rmed in service within six months of the date on which increments 
are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
 ii An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way o f punishment or for general ineﬃ  ciency, after the 
employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, 
whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage. 
 iii Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to  all employees in employment from 1st August 2020.
     Previously  Eﬀ  ective from
       1st August 2020
   O ﬃ   cer In Charge  Rs. 500/- Rs. 700/-
   Senior Oﬃ   cer In Charge  Rs. 600/- Rs. 850/- 
   Special Grade Oﬃ   cer In Charge     Rs. 1000/-
13 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The working week shall be six days of forty eight hours. One da y each week shall be allowed as an oﬀ   day. 
Work on the weekly oﬀ  day or in excess of forty eight hours per week or nine hours per day shall be deemed to 
be overtime. 
If required by the Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer. 
Each hour of Overtime work shall be calculated by dividing the monthly salary by 240 multiplied by one & half times. 
14 WEEKLY AND POYA HOLIDAYS
 The working week shall be 6 days or 48 hours. One day each wee k shall be allowed as oﬀ  day. Work on the oﬀ  day, 
statutory holiday shall be calculated by dividing the monthly salary by 240 multiplied by one & half times. 
15  STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
All employees covered by this agreement will be entitled to mer cantile holidays as provided in the Shop & Oﬃ  ce 
Employees Act. 
 Thaipongal day
 Independence day
 Day prior to Sinhala/ Tamil New Year
 Sinhala/ Tamil New Year Day
 May Day
 Day following Wesak Full Moon Poya Day
 Holy Prophet's Birthday (Milad Un Nabi)
 Christmas day 
Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated according to the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees Act. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 15A
16  LEAVE
 1 (i) Annual Leave
   Employees shall be granted to a maximum of 14 days annual le ave. In the ﬁ rst year the leave entitlement shall be 
on a proportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled 
to three weeks paid Annual Leave as a special beneﬁ t. This right shall not extend to any Employees recruited after 
1st September 1993.
 2   Casual Leave 
   All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of  seven (07) days Casual Leave with full pay, not more 
than three (03) days being taken at a time. Casual Leave not ta ken in any one year will not be carried over to the 
next year.
 3 (i) Sick Leave 
   Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 wor king days in a year. Sick Leave will be granted up 
to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. For Leave of three days and over, a medical 
certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to 
the right of the employer to call for a medical certiﬁ cate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate. 
  (ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which 
he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged ill ness, in a succeeding year, subject to the condition 
however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 working days on that account.
  (iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit a higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall be permitted 
to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him/her.  
 4   Maternity leave
  1 84 working days of maternity leave will be granted on live ch ild birth.
  2 Additional leave will be granted on half month's salary, upon employees request, until the age of six months to the 
infant.
  3 Paternity leave of 3 days will be granted to the father of the child.
17 ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFERS
 i Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of  children or employment of a spouse will subject to the 
exigencies of the service and the requirement of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with 
one month's notice in writing.
 ii Transfers from one estate to another or from one division t o another which are likely to cause hardship on account 
of children's shooling or the spouse's employment shall be made at the end of the year with three calendar month's 
notice.
 iii Employees whose children are sitting for the G. C. E. OL/A L examination for the ﬁ rst time will not be transferred 
in that particular year. 
 iv The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitte d to Grade 01 in School also will be considered.
 v No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior 
to his retirement. 
 vi The provisions of sub-clause (1) to (5) above shall not app ly to transfers on disciplinary grounds but the Management 
shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 16A
18  AGE OF RETIREMENT
  i Unless the letter of appointment speciﬁ  es a higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 yea rs and will be 
applicable to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
19  GRA TUITY
  Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of G ratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
20 DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES
  i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pe nding an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of  the peace, damage to property or disturbance of 
business needs to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general manner 
of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
  ii An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disci plinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management 
deems that such measure is necessary.
  iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show caus e' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged 
against him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer 
or explanation. Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable 
amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in 
exceptionable circumstances. 
  iv If the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges 
and where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the 
Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 
30 working days from the date on which the explanation to the 'show cause' letter is received unless circumstances 
prevent the employer from doing so. 
  v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to de fend him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not 
be a professional. If the employee wishes to have the beneﬁ t to such representation he shall inform the Superintendent 
of the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent 
may object to the individual selected, in which event the accus ed employee may nominate another representative. 
The failure of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry. 
  vi The Employer shall endeavor to give the ﬁ  ndings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working 
days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no case shall the 
ﬁ ndings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case 
of a pending criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are give within 90 working days and the above exception  does 
not apply the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges. 
  vii Notwithstanding the above provisions, an employer may, wh ere the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee 
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out of the reasons for termination, including the justiﬁ cation 
for summary termination. In such event, the union may appeal to the employer or to the appropriate forum.   
21  SUSPENSION PENDING DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES
  i An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a pe riod not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary 
inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of t he Employer of a charge or charges of misconduct 
against him. Such suspension shall be in writing. 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 17A
  ii Suspension of an employee in the ground referred to in sub  clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month 
shall be on half pay. 
  iii The provisions contained in sub - clause (i) & (ii) above  shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending 
inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Veriﬁ cation. 
22  SUSPENSION AS A MEASURE OF PUNISHMENT
  i Punishment for oﬀ  ences in the case of an employee may include suspension provided however that such suspension 
shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
  ii Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry,
23  V ARIATIONS OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT & DISPUTES
  i Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force o f this Agreement, they will not seek to vary alter or add 
to any of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent. 
  ii Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ  t which is over and above the normal entitlement shall continue to enjoy the same as 
personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to consumption 
of electricity where a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees. 
  iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General 
of Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act and if no settlement could be reached by voluntary arbitration thereafter. 
  iv It is agreed by and between parties that the unions, colle ctively or independently, or their members, shall not resort 
to any form of trade union action on any matter covered by this agreement or is connected therewith. 
24  DISPUTES RESOLUTION COMMITTEE
  i It is agreed by parties that the Disputes Resolution Commit tee will meet once in three months to resolve any dispute 
that may arise in relation to any violation of the provisions of this Agreement. However, in case of an urgent necessity 
a meeting will be held with two weeks' notice if requested by either party.
  ii Decisions arrived by the Dispute Resolutions Committee sha ll be implemented within the period agreed between 
the parties. 
25  DUTY LEA VE
  i Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent Union 
will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
  ii Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent 
Union, as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (1) above, the Chilaw Plantations Limited wil l attempt to eﬀ ect an amicable 
settlement between parties.
  iii By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of  the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave in any one year.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 18A
  iv By mutual arrangement with the Employer, two Vice Presiden ts of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave each in any one year. 
  v By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chai rmen of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly 
by these two Oﬃ  ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year on need basis. 
  vi Duty leave shall be granted to employees selected by the U nion to attend Seminars and workshop conducted by the 
Union or any other labour related institution in one year for a period not exceeding two days. 
  
   Part II
  1 Amalgamation & Sub Leasing  
   The Chilaw Plantation Limited covered and bound by this Agre ement undertakes to discuss with the Union to resolve 
any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/ sub leasing of estates/ divisions/ factories prior to 
such situations. However, Chilaw Plantation Limited will continue to be the employer of such employees.
  2 Electricity   
   Free electricity would be granted to members of staﬀ   on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been 
enjoying in the past.
   Senior Staﬀ     - 140 units 
   Junior Staﬀ    - 100 units
   Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 month s on the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that costs each 
estate. 
  3  Kerosene Allowance  
   Employer shall provide 25 liters kerosene per mensem to thos e employees resident on estates/ divisions without 
electricity.
  4 Coconut Allowance
   The employer shall provide 40 coconuts to members of estate staﬀ  (Including future recruits) at the cost of 
Rs. 1/00 per nut irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
   
  5 Drinking Water Allowance
   The employer agrees to provide 500 liters of drinking water per month to every staﬀ  members employed on required 
estates. 
  6 Accident Insurance Scheme
   The employer agrees to provide an accident insurance scheme covering all staﬀ  members employed in estates under 
their management. 
  7  Festival Advance
   All employees will be paid a sum of Rs. 15,000/- interst fre e advance, before two weeks in respect of their festivals, 
which will be recovered in 10 equal installments. Any future revision will be on mutual agreement. 
  8 Employer shall provide minimum 5 liters of petrol per month  to all Oﬃ  cers In Charge, Senior Oﬃ  cer In Charge 
and Special Grade Oﬃ  cer In Charge for Those who have Motor Bike. 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 19A
  9  Medical Aid Scheme
  i The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be  5% and the Employers' contribution shall be 10%
  ii A staﬀ   member who is a member of the staﬀ  medical aid sheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/his credit 
in the fund inclusive of the Company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/ death or termination of 
his/ her employment from the estate. 
  10 Death Grant
  i With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ  member, the dependents will be paid a sum of Rs. 100,000/- 
as funeral expenses. 
  ii The dependents of the deceased staﬀ   member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one 
month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the dependents hand over the staﬀ  quarters. 
  iii If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ   member, the dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months 
salary within one month of the death of the staﬀ  member. 
  1 1  Union Subscriptions 
  i The employer agrees on the written request of an employee t o deduct from the wages due to such employee, the 
current monthly Union subscriptions as speciﬁ ed by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to t he 
Union and remit the amount so deducted to the Union by the following month, till such time the employee maintain 
his request.   
 
  ii In the event of the union being representative of less tha n 40% of the employees, no remittance in respect of check 
- oﬀ  would be made thereafter.
 INTERPRETATION
 Word Meaning
 Union means the Union referred to as the Party of the Second P art in this Agreement
 Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispu tes Act
 Employer means a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in 
Schedule I hereof
 Week means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding 
Sunday night
 Year means a continuous period of 12 months
 Gender a reference to the masculine gender shall include the f eminine as well
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Chilaw on this 6th day of November 2020.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 20A
SCHEDULE I
OFFICER IN CHARGE SALARY RANGE
 PRESENT  REVISED ANNUAL
 SALARY SALARY INCREMENT
Oﬃ  cer In Charge Rs. 27778/00 Rs. 33350/00 Rs. 700/00
Senior Oﬃ  cer In Charge Rs. 28428/00 Rs. 34125/00 Rs. 850/00
Special Grade Oﬃ  cer In Charge   Rs. 35625/00 Rs. 1000/00


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 21A
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - TECHNICAL STAFF 
This Collective Agreement entered into between the Chilaw Plantations Limited having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 165, Puttalam 
Road, Chilaw of the First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the Second Part, 
made and entered into on the 5th day of November Two Thousand Twenty witness as follows: 
1 TITLE
 This Agreement shall be known as the Chilaw Plantations Limite d Collective Agreement for Technical Staﬀ .
2 EMPLOYERS COVERED AND BOUND
 This Agreement shall bind the management of the Chilaw Plantat ions Limited, whose name is mentioned as First Part 
for and in respect of the categories of employees hereafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3 UNION AND EMPLOYEES COVERED AND BOUND
 This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union,  hereinafter referred to as the Union and members of 
the said Union who are employed by Chilaw Plantations Limited on monthly contracts of employment and in respect 
of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule 1 hereon.
4  EARLIER AGREEMENTS
 The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace a ny earlier Agreements in respect of these categories 
and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and con ditions. In the event of there being any dispute with 
regard to the existence of any other term or condition not cont ained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference 
to the 'disputes committee' and thereafter Commissioner General  of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act if 
the matter is not resolved before the 'disputes committee', but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take 
trade union action on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5  DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION
 Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shal l be eﬀ ective from 1st August 2020 to 31st July 2023 and 
shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 31st of July 2023.  
6 GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 i The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st August 2020 and 
shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with eﬀ ect from 
the said date.  
 ii Grading of employees covered shall at the discretion of the  employer.
 iii All employees of this category will be re-designated as sp ecial grade factory oﬃ  cer Upon completion of 10 years of 
satisfactory service under the same employer, Factory Oﬃ  cers should be re - designated as Special Grade Factory 
Oﬃ  cer upon completion of diploma course accepted by Management and on the discretion of the management shall 
be re-designation as Special grade factory oﬃ  cer with a minimum of 01 increment.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 22A
 iv Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer, Junior Assistant Factory Oﬃ  cer shall 
be re-designated as Assistant Factory Oﬃ  cer with a minimum of 01 increment. 
 v Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to 
enjoy  same. 
7 FIRST APPOINTMENT
 i No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agree ment unless he has successfully completed the G. C. 
E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/ Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have 
experience in the trade. 
 ii All designations of new recruits should be as speciﬁ  ed under Schedule I hereof. 
8  PROBATION
 On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probatio n of not more than six months subject to the right of 
the employer to extend the probationary period for a further pe riod of three months at his discretion for reasons of 
unsatisfactory performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ  able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in the 
event of the probationary period not being extended after the p eriod of 06 months, the employee shall deem to be 
conﬁ rmed notwithstanding there being no letter of conﬁ rmation. During the period of probation or extended probation 
the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notice or assigning reasons therefore.
9  ATTENDANCE AT WORK
 Unless otherwise speciﬁ  cally instructed by the Employer and such instructions not bei ng of a permanent nature, an 
employee shall present himself for work on every day other than  a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and 
at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for work throughout the normal working hours. 
10  PROMOTIONS
 i Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable , seniority shall be given preference. The Employers 
shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by  this Agreement may have appropriate skills and 
qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible. 
 ii Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period o f 06 months and if he is conﬁ rmed in the senior capacity, 
he will not be required to serve a period of probation. 
 iii Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be 
communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of Rs. Four Thousand (Rs. 4000/00) per 
mensum. When conﬁ rmed 50% of this acting allowance shall be added to the salary.
 iv When promoting an employees to a senior position a salary i ncrease of minimum one (01) increment shall be granted.  
 v Employees who obtain a work related course certiﬁ  cate from NIPM or any other reputed institutions, as approved 
by the management, shall be granted special increments with reimbursement of course fee and to be cinsidered for 
higher positions. 
 vi Overlooking periods shall not exceed 06 months and during t hat period the employer shall pay the employee Rs. Four  
Thousand (Rs. 4000/00) as an overlooking allowance. This functional allowance shall not attract any consequential 
beneﬁ ts such as EPF and ETF.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 23A
11 SALARIES
 1 The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by t his agreement with eﬀ ect from 1st August 2020 shall 
be as follows: 
 i With eﬀ  ect from 1st August 2020, the salaries of all employees in employment shall be increased by 20% based 
on last dawn salary, 
 ii With eﬀ  ect from 1st August 2020 all employees in employment shall be eligible to receive the newly introduced 
salary increases and allowances granted by the Government to em ployees employed in Government sector, 
corporations, statutory bodies, state institutions and in other  State enterprises which are relevant to Chilaw 
Plantations Limited. This arrangement is to ensure to miniminm salary anomalies between various employment 
categories of employees in Chilaw Plantations Limited,
 iii Employees who reach the maximum salary point depicted in t he scale will continue to receive annual increments 
if they continue to remain within the same category,
 iv In the case of Factory staﬀ   who are entitled on account of work as a Storekeeper as the case may be, such employee 
shall receive an allowance at the rate of 15% of the salary drawn by him/ her. The allowances shall not be payable 
if the additional duties are not performed or not deemed neccessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made 
in respect of this allowance, 
 v In terms of the above salary revision, the salary revision a pplicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule 
II of this agreement, 
 vi Subject to the provisions set out in Clause 6 (1) above, th e Chilaw Plantations Limited covered and bound shall 
pay the revised salaries as from the month of August 2020 with arrears.
 2 i With eﬀ  ect from date hereof, Employees covered by this agreement are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ   
quarters being provided to them, shall receive a payment described below: 
   Junior Assistant Factory Oﬃ   cer  Rs. 1350/-
   Assistant Factory Oﬃ   cer  Rs. 1450/-
   Senior Assistant Factory Oﬃ   cer  / 
    Technical Assistant   Rs. 1700/-
   Factory Oﬃ   cer    Rs. 1850/-
   Special Grade Factory Oﬃ   cer  Rs. 2000/-
  ii In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided  by the Employer, such person shall be liable to 
disciplinary  action.
12 ANNUAL INCREMENTS
 i Annual Increments shall be granted automatically on completi on of a year's service. The increments will be awarded 
in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Wher e increments are awarded on a uniform date to all 
employees, in the event of an employee being conﬁ rmed in service within six months of the date on which increments 
are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
 ii An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way o f punishment or for general ineﬃ  ciency, after the 
employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, 
whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage. 
 iii Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to  all employees in employment from 1st August, 2020:

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 24A
     Previously  Eﬀ  ective from
       1st August 2020
   Junior Assistant Factory Oﬃ   cer    Rs. 500/00
   Assistant Factory Oﬃ   cer    Rs. 575/00  
   Senior Assistant Factory Oﬃ   cer/ Technical Assistant  Rs. 700/00
   Factory Oﬃ   cer    Rs. 950/00
   Special Grade Factory Oﬃ   cer    Rs. 1100/00
13 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The working week shall be six days of forty eight hours. One da y each week shall be allowed as an oﬀ   day. 
Work on the weekly oﬀ  day or in excess of forty eight hours per week or nine hours per day shall be deemed to 
be overtime. 
If required by the Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer. 
Each hour of Overtime work shall be calculated by dividing the monthly salary by 240 multiplied by one & half times. 
14 WEEKLY AND POYA HOLIDAYS
 The working week shall be 6 days or 48 hours. One day each wee k shall be allowed as oﬀ  day. Work on the oﬀ  day, 
statutory holiday shall be calculated by dividing the monthly salary by 240 multiplied by one & half times. 
15  STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
All employees covered by this agreement will be entitled to mer cantile holidays as provided in the Shop & Oﬃ  ce 
Employees Act. 
 Thaipongal day
 Independence day
 Day prior to Sinhala/ Tamil New Year
 Sinhala/ Tamil New Year Day
 May Day
 Day following Wesak Full Moon Poya Day 
 Holy Prophet’s Birthday (Milad Un Nabi)
 Christmas day
Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated according to the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees 
Act.
18 LEA VE
 1 (i) Annual Leave
   Employees shall be granted to a maximum of 14 days annual le ave. In the ﬁ rst year the leave entitlement shall 
be on a proportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 ye ars service and Heads of Departments shall 
be entitled to three weeks paid Annual Leave as a special beneﬁ t. This right shall not extend to any Employees 
recruited after 1st September 1993.
 2   Casual Leave
   All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of  seven (07) days Casual Leave with full pay, not 
more than three (03) days being taken at a time . Casual Leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over 
to the year. 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 25A
 3 (i) Sick Leave 
   Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 wor king days in a year. Sick Leave will be granted up 
to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. For leave of three days and over, a medical 
certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject 
to the right of the employer to call for a medical certiﬁ cate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate. 
  (ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave,he may carry forward his leave. 
which he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolong ed illness, in a succeeding year, subject to the 
condition however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 working days on that account. 
  (iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently peymit  a higher quantum of sick leave, he/she shall be 
permitted to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him /her.
 4   Maternity leave 
  1 84 working days of maternity leave will be granted on live child birth .
  2 Additional leave will be granted on half month’s salary, upon employees request, until the age of six months to 
the infant. 
  3 Paternity leave of 3 days will be granted to the father of the child. 
17 ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFERS 
 i Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of  children or employment of a spouse will subject to the 
exigencies of the service and the requirement of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with 
one month’ s notice in writing.
 ii Transfers from one estate to another or from one division t o another which are likely to cause hardship on account 
of children’s schooling or the spouse’s employment shall be made at the end of the year with three calendar months’ 
notice .
 iii Employees whose children are sitting for the G.C.E. OL/AL Examination for the ﬁ rst time will not be transferred 
in that particular year. 
 iv The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitte d to Grade 01 in School also will be considered.
 
 v No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the  last year prior 
to his retirement. 
 vi The provisions of sub-clause (1) to (5) above shall not app ly to transfers on disciplinary grounds but the management 
shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case. 
18 AGE OF RETIREMENT 
 i Unless the letter of appointment speciﬁ  es a higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 yea rs and will be 
applicable to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
19 GRATUITY 
 Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gr atuity Act No. 12 of 1983. 
 
20 DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES 
 i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pen ding an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of  the peace, damage to property or disturbance of 
business needs to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general manner 
of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension. 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 26A
 ii An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a discip linary investigation and inquiry, where the 
Management deems that such measure is necessary. 
 iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘show cause ’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged 
against him and the employee shall be granted not less than sev en (7) clear working days in which to give the 
answer or explanation. Where necessary the employee may request  further time and the Employer shall permit a 
reasonable amount of time depending on the nature of the charge s , but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, 
other then in exceptionable circumstances.
 iv If the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges 
and where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the 
Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry 
within 30 working days from the date on which the explanation t o the ‘show cause’ letter is received unless 
circumstances prevent the employer from doing so. 
 
 v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to def end him at the inquiry . Such representative 
shall not be a professional. If the employee wishes to have the  beneﬁ t of such representation he  shall inform the 
Superintendent of the name of the person defending him at least  48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. 
The Superintendent may object to the individual selected , in w hich event the accused employee may nominate 
another representative. The Failure of an employee to be defended by a respresentative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
 vi The Employer shall endeavor to give the ﬁ  ndings and convey the punishment, if any,within a period of 30 working 
days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded,unless there is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no case shall the 
ﬁ ndings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case 
of a pending criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does 
not apply the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
 vii Notwithstanding the above provisions, an employer may, whe re the circumstances so warrant, terminate an 
employee summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out of the reasons for termination, including 
the justiﬁ cation for summary termination. In such event, the union may appeal to the employer or to the appropriate 
forum.
21 SUSPENSION PENDING DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES   
 i An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a per iod not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary 
inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of t he Employer of a charge or charges of misconduct 
against him. Such suspension shall be in writing.
 ii Suspension of an employee in the ground referred to in Sub clause (I) above for any period in excess of one month 
shall be on half pay.
 iii The provisions contained in sub-clause (i) & (ii) above sh all not apply to the suspension of an employee pending 
inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Veriﬁ cation.
22 SUSPENSION AS A MEASURE OF PUNISHMENT   
 i Punishment for oﬀ  ences in the case of an employee may include suspension provided however that such suspension 
shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
 ii Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay s hall only be after a domestic inquiry,

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 27A
23 V ARIATIONS OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT & DISPUTES
  
 i Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of  this agreement, they will not seek to vary alter or add to 
any of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
 ii Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ  t which is over and above the normal entitlement shall continu e to enjoy the 
same as personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to 
consumption of electricity where a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees.
 iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement s hall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner 
General of Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act and if no settlement could be reached by voluntary arbitration 
thereafter.
 iv It is agreed by and between parties that the unions, collec tively or independently, or their members, shall not resort 
to any form of trade union action on any matter covered by this agreement or is connected therewith.
24 DISPUTES RESOLUTION COMMITTEE  
 i It is agreed by parties that the Disputes Resolution Committ ee will meet once in three months to resolve any 
dispute that may arise in relation to any violation of the provisions of this Agreement. However, in case of an urgent 
necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks’ notice if requested by either party.
 ii Decisions arrived by the Dispute Resolution Committee shall  be implemented within the period agreed between the 
parties.
25 DUTY LEA VE   
 i Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the P resident and one other oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent Union 
will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
 ii Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the P resident and the nominated oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent 
Union, as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (I) above, the Chilaw Plantations Limited wil l attempt to eﬀ ect an amicable 
settlement between parties.
 iii By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasure of t he Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave in any one year.
 iv By mutual arrangement with the Employer, two Vice President s of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave each in any one year.
 v By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chair men and Sub Branch Chairmen of the Union shall 
be allowed twelve days duty leave which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that 
the total leave availed jointly by these two Oﬃ  ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year on ne ed 
basis.
 vi Duty leave shall be granted to employees selected by the Un ion to attend Seminars and workshop conducted by the 
Union or any other labour related institution in one year for a period not exceeding two days.
Part II
 1  Amalgamation & Sub Leasing
  The Chilaw Plantation Limited covered and bound by this Agree ment undertakes to discuss with the Union to 
resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amal gamation/sub leasing of estates/divisions/factories 
prior to such situations. However, Chilaw Plantation Limited will continue to be the employer of such employees.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 28A
 2 Electricity
  Free electricity would be granted to members of staﬀ   on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been 
enjoing in the past.
            Senior Staﬀ    -         140 units
            Junior Staﬀ     -         100 units
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that costs each estate.
 3 Kerosene Allowance
  Employer shall provide 25 liters kerosene per mensem to those  employees resident on estates/divisions without 
electricity.
 4 Coconut Allowance
  The employern shall provide 40 coconuts to members of estate staﬀ  (Including future r ecruits) at the cost 
of Rs. 1/00 per nut irrespective of what they had been enjoying  in the past.
 5 Drinking Water Allowance
  The employer agrees to provide 500 liters of drinking water p er month to every staﬀ   members employed on 
required estates.
 
 6 Accident Insurance Scheme
  The employer agrees to provide an accident insurance scheme c overing all staﬀ  members employed in estates 
under their management.
 7 Festival Advance
  All employees will be paid a sum of Rs. 15,000/- interest fre e advance, before two weeks in respect of their 
festivals, which will be recovered in 10 equal installments. An y future revision will be on mutual agreement.
 8 Medical Aid Scheme
  
 i The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers'   
contribution shall be 10% 
 ii A staﬀ   member who is a member of the staﬀ   medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to hi s/
her credit in the fund incluse of the Company's contribution to  such fund, at the time of retirement/death or 
termination of his/her employment from the estate.
 9 Death Grant
  
 i With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ   member, the dependents will be paid a sum of 
Rs. 100,000/- as funeral expenses.
 ii The dependents of the deceased staﬀ   member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months sal ary 
within one month upon the death of the employee and the balance  at the time the dependents hand over the 
staﬀ  quarters.
 iii If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ   member, the dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 
months salary within one month of the death of the staﬀ   member.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 29A
 10 Union Subscriptions
 i The employer agrees on the written request of an employee to  deduct from the wages due to such employee, the 
current monthly Union subscriptions as speciﬁ ed by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to 
the Union and remit the amount so deducted to the Union by the following month, till such time the employee 
maintain his request.
 ii In the event of the union being representative of less than  40% of the employees, no remitttance in respect of 
check-oﬀ  would be made thereafter.
INTERPRETATION
  
 Word Meaning
 Union means the Union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement
 Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispu tes Act
 Employer means a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and  is referred 
to in Schedule I hereof
 Week means the period between midnight on any Saturday and mid night on the 
succeeding Sunday night
 Year means a continuous period of 12 months
 Gender a reference to the masculine gender shall include the f eminine as well
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have been hereunto set their hand at Chilaw on this 6th day of November 2020.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 30A
SCHEDULE I
TECHNICAL STAFF SALARY RANGES
     PRESENT  REVISED  ANNUAL
     SALARY  SALARY  INCREMENT   
  
Jnr. Asst. Factory Oﬃ  cer   Rs. 28508/00  Rs. 34200/00  Rs. 500.00
Asst. Factory Oﬃ  cer   Rs. 28720/00  Rs. 34475/00  Rs. 575/00
Snr. Asst. Factory Oﬃ  cer/
Lab Assistant    Rs. 28933/00  Rs. 34725/00  Rs. 700/00
Factory Oﬃ  cer    Rs. 29914/00  Rs. 35900/00  Rs. 950/00
Factory Oﬃ  cer
(Special Grade)       Rs. 37500/00  Rs. 1100/00
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT- MAINTENANCE SUPPORT STAFF
This Collective Agreement entered into between the Chilaw Plant ations Limited having its registered oﬃ  ce at  No. 165, 
Puttalam Road, Chilaw of the First part and the Ceylon Estate S taﬀ s' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the 
Second Part, made and entered into on  the 5th day of November Two Thousand Twenty witness as follows:
1  TITLE
 This Agreement shall be known as the Chilaw Plantations Limite d Collective Agreement for Maintenance support 
Staﬀ .
2  EMPLOYERS COVERED AND BOUND
 This Agreement shall bind the management of the Chilaw Plantat ions Limited, whose name is mentioned as ﬁ  rst 
part for and in respect of the categories  of employees hereaft er described in Clause 3 hereof.
3  UNION AND EMPLOYEES COVERED AND BOUND
 This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union,  hereinafter referred to as the Union and members 
of the said Union who are employed by Chilaw Plantations Limite d on monthly contracts of employement and in 
respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule 1 here on.
4  EARLIER AGREEMENTS 
 The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace a ny earlier Agreements in respect of these categories 
and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and con ditions. In the event of there being any dispute with 
regard to the existence of any other term or condition not cont ained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference 
to the ' disputes committee' and thereafter Commissioner Genera l of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act 
if the matter is not resolved before the ' disputes committee',  but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled 
to take trade union action on the basis of the existence of any  such alleged term or condition. 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 31A
5  DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION
 Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shal l be eﬀ ective from 1st August 2020 to 31st July 2023 
and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by eit her party giving notice of termination in terms of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party  shall give notice to the other before 31st July 2023.
6  GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 i The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st August 2020 
and shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with eﬀ ect 
from the said date.
 ii Grading of employees covered shall at the discretion of the  employer.
 iii Any employees enjoying better trems and conditions than wh at is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to 
enjoy same.
7  FIRST APPOINTMENT
 i No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agree ment unless he has required knowledge and experience 
in the trade.
 ii All designations of new recruits should be as speciﬁ  ed under Schedule I here of.
8  PROBATION
 On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation  of not more than six months subject to the right 
of the employer to extend the probationary period for a further  period of three months at his discretion for reasons 
of unsatisfactory performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ  able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in 
the event of the probationary period not being extended after t he period of 06 months, the employee shall deem to 
be conﬁ rmed notwith standing there being no letter of conﬁ  rmation. During the period of Probation or extended 
probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate withou t notice or assigning reasons therefore.
9  ATTENDANCE AT WORK
 Unless otherwise speciﬁ cally instructed by the Employer and such instructions not bei ng of a permanent nature, an 
employee shall present himself for work on every day other than  a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and 
at the usual working place and shall there after remain availab le for work throughout the normal working hours.
10  PROMOTIONS
 i Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable,  seniority shall be given preference. The Employers 
shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by  this Agreement may have appropriate skills and 
qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible.
 ii All employees covered by this agreement on completion of 15  years of service under the same employer shall be 
granted one additional annual increment.
11  SALARIES
 1 The Salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by th is agreement with eﬀ ect from 1st August 2020 
shall be as follows.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 32A
 i With eﬀ  ect from 1st August 2020, the salaries of all employees in emp loyment shall be increased by  20% 
based on last dawn salary.
 ii With eﬀ  ect from 1st August 2020 all employees in employment shall be eligible to receive the newly introduced 
salary increases and allowances granted by the Government to em ployees employed in government sector, 
corporations, statutory bodies, state institutions and in other  state enterprises which are relevant to chilaw 
plantations limited. This arrangement is to ensure minimum sala ry anomalies between various employment 
categories of employees in Chilaw plantaions limited.
 iii Employees who reach the maximum salary point depicted in t he scale will continue to receive annual increments 
if they continue to remain within the same category.
 iv. In terms of the above salary revision, the salary revision  applicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule 
II of this agreement.
 v. Subject to the provisions set out in Clause 6 (1) above, th e Chilaw Plantations Limited covered and bound shall 
pay the revised salaries as from the month of August 2020 with arrears.
 2 i. With eﬀ  ect from date hereof, Employees covered by this agreement are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ  
quarters being provided to them, shall receive a payment described below.
   Lorry/Tractor Driver Rs. 1050/00
   Car Driver Rs. 1050/00
  ii. In the event of any person not occupying quarters provide d by the Employer, such person shall be liable to 
disciplinary action.
12. ANNUAL INCREMENTS
 i. Annual Increments shall be granted automatically on complet ion of a year's service. The increments will be 
awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform 
date to all employees, in the event of an employee being conﬁ rmed in service within six months of the date on 
which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the 
following year.
 ii. An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way on punishment or for general ineﬃ  ciency, after 
the employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss  of increment shall be 
continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
 iii. Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below t o all employees in employment from 1st August 2020.
 Previously Eﬀ  ective from Grade 1
  1 st August 2020
 Lorry/Tractor Driver Rs. 350/00 Rs. 500/00 600/00
 Car Driver Rs. 350/00 Rs. 500/00 600/00
 Pre School Teacher Rs. 350/00 Rs. 500/00 600/00
 Blacksmith Rs. Rs. 500/00 600/00
 Carpenter Rs. Rs. 500/00 600/00

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 33A
 Previously Eﬀ  ective from Grade 1
  1 st August 2020
 Engine Driver Rs. Rs. 500/00 600/00
 Welder Rs. Rs. 500/00 600/00
 Mechanic/Motor Mechanic Rs. 450/00 Rs. 650/00 750/00
 Creche Attendant/CDO Rs. 450/00 Rs. 650/00 750/00
 Electrician/Forman Rs. 450/00 Rs. 650/00 750/00
 Backhoe Operator Rs. 450/00 Rs. 650/00 750/00
 All employees on completion of 10 years of service shall be pl aced on Grade 1.
13. HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
 The decisions of the relevant wages board shall apply.
 If required by the employer, an employee shall work reasonable  overtime which has been authorized by the employer. Rates of 
overtime shall be according to the decisions of the relevant wages board.
14. WEEKLY AND POYA HOLIDAYS
 An employee will be entitled to weekly holidays and half holid ays as per the relevant wages board decisions.
15. STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
 All employees covered by this agreement will be entitled to me rcantile holidays as provided in the Shop & Oﬃ  ce 
Employees Act.
 Thaipongal day
 Independence day
 Day prior to Sinhala/Tamil New Year
 Sinhala/Tamil New Year Day
 May Day
 Day following Wesak Full Moon Poya Day
 Holy Prophet's Birthday (Milad Un Nabi)
 Christmas Day
 Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated accordi ng to the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employee 
Act.
16. LEA VE
 1 (i) Annual Leave
   Employee presently enjoying 14 days annual leave shall conti nue to do so. Others will receive annual holidays 
in accordance with the relevant wages board decisions applicable to them.
 2   Casual Leave
   All employees shall be entitled in each year to ta maximum o f seven (07) days Casual Leave with full pay, not more than 
three (03) days being taken at a time. Casual Leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over to the next year.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 34A
 3 (i) Sick Leave
   Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maxumum of 21 wor king days in a year. Sick Leave. Sick Leave will be granted 
up to two days at a time without  the submission of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. For leave of three days and over,  a medical 
certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to the 
right of the employer to call for a medical certiﬁ cate as aforementiioned, where he deems it appropriate.
  (ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which he 
could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness, in a succeeding year, subject to the condition however that 
he cannot avail himself of more than 90 working days on that account.
  iii In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit a  higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall be 
permitted to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him/her.
 4   Maternity Leave
 1. 84 working days of maternity leave will be granted on live child birth.
 2. Additional leave will be granted on half month's salary, up on employees request, until the age of six months to 
the infant.
 3. Paternity leave of 03 days will be granted to the father of  the child.
17. ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFERS
 i Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of  children or employment of a spouse will subject to the 
exigencies of the service and the requirment of the Employer, b e made at the discretion of the Management with 
one month's notice in writing.
 ii Transfers from one estate to another or from one division t o another which are likely to cause hardship on account 
of children's schooling or the spouse's employment shall be made at the end of the year with three calendar month's 
notice.
 iii Employees whose children are sitting for the G.C.E. OL/AL examination for the ﬁ rst time will not be transferred in 
that parlicaular year.
 iv The tranfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted  to Grade 01 in School also will be considered.
 v No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior 
to his retirement.
 vi The provisions of Sub-clause (1) to (5) above shall not app ly to transfers on disciplinary grounds but the Management 
shall give reasonabel notice, depending on the cirtumstances of each case.
18. AGE OF RETIREMENT
 i Unless the letter of appointment speciﬁ  es a higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 yea rs and will be 
applicable to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
19. GRATUITY
 Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gr atuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 35A
20. DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES
 i  An employee may be suspended without pay his Employer pendi ng an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal 
or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs 
to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general manner of the reasons 
for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
 ii An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a discip linary investigation and inquiry, where the Management 
deems that such measure is necessary.
 iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show cause ' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against him 
and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation. Where 
necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time depending on 
the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptionable circumstances.
 iv If the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exconerated of the charge of charges and where 
appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer shall hold 
a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working days from the 
date on which the explanation to the 'show cause' letter is received unless circumstances prevent the employer from doing 
so.
 v An employer shall be permitted to have a Union member to def end him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not be a 
professional. If the employee wishes to have the beneﬁ t of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of the name 
of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object to the 
individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The failure of an employee 
to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
 vi The Employer shall endeavor to give the ﬁ  ndings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days 
from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is junstiﬁ cation for the delay. In no case shall the ﬁ ndings be 
delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending criminal 
investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply the accused employee 
shall be exonerated of the charges.
 vii  Notwithstanding the above provisions, an employer may, wh ere the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee 
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out of the reasons for termination, including the justiﬁ cation for 
summary termination. In such event, the union may appeal to the employer or to the appropriate forum.
21. SUSPENSION PENDING DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES
 i  An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a pe riod not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary inquiry 
when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer of a charge or charges of misconduct against him. Such 
suspension shall be in writing.
 ii Suspension of an employee in the ground referred to in sub clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall be 
on half pay.
 iii The provisions contained in Sub-clause (i) & (ii) above sh all not apply to the suspension of an employee pending inquiries 
by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Veriﬁ cation.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 36A
22. SUSPENSION AS A MEASURE OF PUNISHMENT
 i  Punishment for oﬀ  ences in the case of an employee may include suspension provided however that such suspension shall 
not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
 ii Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay s hall only be after a domestic inquiry,
23. V ARIATIONS OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT & DISPUTES
 i Parties hereto agree that during the continuauce in force of  this Agreement, they will not seek to vary alter or add to any of 
the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
 ii Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ  t which is over and above the normal entitlement shall continue to enjoy the same as personal, 
but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to consumption of electricity 
where a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees.
 iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement s hall be resolved by reference  to the Commissioner General of 
Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act and if no settlement could be reached by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
 iv It is agreed by and between parties that the unions, collec tively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to any 
form of trade union action on any matter covered by this agreement or is connected therewith.
24. DISPUTES RESOLUTION COMMITTEE
 i  It is agreed by parties that the Disputes Resolution Commit tee will meet once in three months to resolve any dispute that 
may arise in relation to any violation of the provisions of this Agreement. However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting 
will be held with two weeks' notice if requested by either party.
 ii Decisions arrived by the Dispute Resolutions Committee shal l be implemented within the period agreed between the parties.
25. DUTY LEA VE
 i  Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent Union will be 
permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
 ii Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent Union, as 
speciﬁ ed in sub clause (1) above, the Chilaw Plantaions Limited will attempt to eﬀ ect an amicable settlement between parties.
 iii By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave in any 
one year.
 iv By mutual arrangement with the Employer, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave each 
in any one year.
 v By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chair men and Sub Branch Chairmen of the Union shall be allowed 
twelve days duty leave which may be shared  with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed 
jointly by these two Oﬃ  ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year on need basis.
 vi Duty leave shall be granted to employees selected  by the U nion to attend Seminars and workshop conducted by the Union 
or any other labour related institution in one year for a period not exceeding two days.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 37A
Part II
 1 .  Amalgamation & Sub Leasing
  The Chilaw Plantation Limited covered and bound by this Agree ment undertakes to discuss with the Union to resolve 
any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/sub leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such 
situations. However, Chilaw Plantation Limited will continue to be the employer of such employees.
 2  Electricity
  Free electricity would be granted to members of staﬀ  on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the 
past.
  Senior Staﬀ   - 140 units
  Junior Staﬀ   - 100 units
  Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months  on the accumelated ﬁ gure at the rate that costs each 
estate.
 3  Kerosene Allowance
  Employer shall provide 25 liters kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions without electricity.
 4  Coconut Allowance
  The employer shall provide 40 coconuts to members of estate s taﬀ  (Including future recruits) at the cost of Rs. 1/00 per nut 
irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
 5  Drinking Water Allowance
  The employer agrees to provide 400 liters of drinking water per month to every staﬀ  members employed on required estates.
 6  Insurance Scheme
  The employer agrees to provide an insurance scheme covering all staﬀ  members employed  in estates under their management.
 7  Festival Advance
  All employees will be paid a sum of Rs. 15,000/- interest free advance, before two weeks in respect of their festivals, which will 
be recovered in 10 equal intallments. Any future revision will be on mutual agreement.
 8  Medical Aid Scheme
 i The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employer's contribution shall be 10%.
 ii A staﬀ   member who is a member of the staﬀ  medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in the fund 
inclusive of the Company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her employment 
from the estate. 
 10 Death Grant
 i With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ  member, the dependents will be paid a sum of Rs. 100,000/- as funeral 
expenses.
 ii The dependents of the deceased staﬀ   member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one month 
upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependents hand over the staﬀ  quarters.
 iii If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ   member, the dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months salary 
within one month of the death of the staﬀ  member.

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 38A
 1 1  Union Subscriptions
 i The employer agrees on the written request of an employee to  deduct from the wages due to such employee, the current 
monthly Union subscriptions as speciﬁ ed by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit 
the amount so deducted to the Union by the following month, till such time the employee maintain his request.
 ii In the event of the union being representative of less than  40% of the employees, no remittance in respect of check-oﬀ  would 
be made thereafter.
INTERPRETATION
 Word  Meaning
 Union means the Union referred to as the Party of the Second P art in this Agreement
 Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispu tes Act
 Employer means a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is reﬀ ed to in 
Schedule I hereof
 Week means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding 
Sunday night
 Year means a continous period of 12 months
 Gender a reﬀ  erence to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well 
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Chilaw on this 6th day of November 2020. 


<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 39A
SCHEDULE I
MAINTENANCE SUPPORT STAFF
 PRESENT REVISED ANNUAL
 SALARY SALARY INCREMENT
 Lorry/Tractor Driver Rs. 27,770/- Rs. 33,325/- Rs. 500/-
 Car Driver Rs. 27,664/- Rs. 33,200/- Rs. 500/-
 Pre School Teacher Rs. 27,750/- Rs 33,300/- Rs. 500/-
 Blacksmith Rs. Rs. 33,200/- Rs. 500/-
 Carpenter Rs. Rs. 33,200/- Rs. 500/-
 Engine Driver Rs. Rs. 33,200/- Rs. 500/-
 Welder Rs. Rs. 33,200/- Rs. 500/-
 Mechanic/Motor Mechanic Rs. 30,301/- Rs. 36,.375/- Rs. 650/-
 Creche Attendant/CDO Rs. 31,039/- Rs. 37,250/- Rs. 650/-
 Electrician/Forman Rs. 31,963/- Rs. 38,350/- Rs. 650/-
 Backhoe Operator Rs. 34,039/- Rs. 40,850/- Rs. 650/-
EOG 12-0340
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.