

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1269
1269
wxl 1"826 - 2013 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'08'30
No. 1,826 – FRIDAY , AUGUST  30, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  20th  September, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th
September, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 1270
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—  (i) The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in April to June, 2011 registered under the Printers and Publishers Ordinance has
 been published in Part V of this Gazette.
(ii) Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,825 of 23.08.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1270
SOUTHERN PROVINCIAL PUBLIC  SERVICE
COMMISSION
Open/Limited Competitive Examinations to Recruit for
the Vacancies in the Southern Province Public Service -
2013
APPLICATIONS are called by the Commission from applicants
with the following qualifications to be recruited for the following
posts that have fallen vacant in the Southern Province Public
Service. Closing date for application is 31.10.2013.
Code Post Stream
A Revenue Inspector Class III Open
B Revenue Inspector Class III Limited
02. Qualified applicants will be recruited for the vacancies in
order to the merit basis of results of a written competitive exam,
which will be held by the Southern Provincial Public Commission.
The number to be recruited will be decided by Southern Provincial
Public Service Commission, depending on the number of vacancies
that exists for the above posts at the time of recruitment.
Code Post Stream Percentage
A Revenue Inspector Class III Open 70%
B Revenue Inspector Class III Limited 30%
03. Qualification .—
(I) Applicants should be citizen of Sri Lanka,
(II) Should be a person with excellent moral Character and
sound health.
(III) Confirming residence.
A. Revenue Inspector Class III - Open Competitive Examination
Permanent residing in Southern Province is a must and
residence for 3 consecutive years within the district
applied for during a period of five years immediately
receiving to the applications needs to be confirmed.
Certificate of confirming residence issued by the Grama
Niladharie and counter signed  by the Divisional Secretary
is needed.
* Above section is irrelevant for the applicants who
applied for Limited examinations.
IV . The following educational qualifications must be fulfilled
with respect to each of the above posts prior to the
closing date for applications.
A. Revenue Inspector (Class III - Open Competitive examination)
(a) Should have passed the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in 6 subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil/ and Mathematics with credits
for four subjects (4 Credits) at one sitting
and
Should  have passed at least one subject (Other than
General Paper) in the G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
B. Revenue Inspector (Class III — Limited Competitive Examination)
(a) Should have passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination
in 6 subjects with credits to Sinhala/Tamil and
Mathematics (2 Credits) at one sitting
and
(b) Being an Employee belonging to Primary Grade non
Technical, Semi Technical or Technical Class of Southern
Provincial Local Government Service with Ten Year
Permanent period of service and should not be subjected
any disciplinary actions. And should have earn salary
increments for five consecutive years.
4. Age .—
A. Revenue Inspector (Class III - Open Competitive
Examination)
Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years as at the closing date for applications.
The maximum age limit does not apply for applicants
already in Public Service and Provincial Public Service.
Note :- This age limits do not apply for the limited competitive
examinations.
5.  Salary Scale .—
A. Revenue Inspector Class III
As per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 (iv)
MN1-2006-A Monthly Salary Scale is Rs. 13,120 - 10x145
- 11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 - 22,040/-
6. Terms and Conditions of Employments . —
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. Employee should
contribute to the Widows’ and Orphens’ or pension fund
as per Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006.
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1271
(b) Selected applicants, recruited on the merit basis of open
competitive examinations will appointed to the relevant
posts subjects to a probation period of 3 years. They will
be confirmed in the posts in order to terms and conditions
of the service minutes.
Selected the applicants, recruited of merit basis
examinations will be appointed to the relevant posts subject
to a acting period of one year. They will be confirmed in
the posts in order to terms and conditions of the service
minutes.
7. Medium .— The examination will be held in all 3 medium in
Sinhala, Tamil and English. Change of the medium applied for will
not be allowed.
8. Examination Procedure .—
A.  Revenue Inspector (Class III - Open Competitive Examination)
Applicants will have to sit for a written test for following subjects.
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Mark Duration
Intelligent test 100 40% 1 hour
Language skills 100 40% 1hour
* Note :  Applicants should have to gained 50% average mark
for  consideration.
B.  Revenue Inspector (Class III - Limited Competitive Examination)
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Mark Duration
General Knowledge 100 40% 1hour
Language Skills 100 40% 1 hour
* Note :  Applicants should have to gained 50% average mark
for consideration.
9. Proposed Town for holding the examination .— Towns
proposed for setting up examination center are as follows. Where
there are’nt a sufficient no. of applicants for a certain town, the
examination will be held in the next closes town. Applicant should
mentioned as the town, only one of the following in the district
where the applicant permanently resides.
District Town
Galle Galle
Matara Matara
Hambantota T angalle
10. Applications.—
(a) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen form given at the end of this notification, using
both sides of A4 (21 x 30cm) paper. Duly prepared
application with No. 1-9 on the first page, No. 10-12 on
the second page should be filled in the applicants own
hand writing.
(b) Applications duly completed should be sent to secretary,
Southern Province Public Service Commission, 6th floor,
District Secretariat Building, Galle, on or before
31.10.2013 by registered post. “Open Competitive
Examination to recruit for the Post Revenue Inspector
Class III in the Southern Province Public Service.” should
be written in the top left hand corner of the envelope. It
is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application.
(c) Applications should be prepared in the medium in which
applicant will faced the examination.
(d) Applicants serving in public or Provincial Public Service
should submit their applications through the respective
heads of the department.
(e) Applications not in compliance with the specimen form,
incomplete applications, applications accompanied by
receipts for exam  fees carrying a days later than the
closing date for applications, applications not attached
with the receipt for exam fees and application received
after the closing date will be rejected without notice. This
commission will not accept responsibility for applications
lost or delayed in the post. Applications will not be
acknowledged.
(f) Applicants signature on the applications should be
attested by the principal of the government school, a
Justice of the Peace. A commissioner for Oaths, A
Commissioned officer of the Armand forces, Notary
Public and Officer of the Police service holding gazetted
post or a staff grade officer holding a permanent post in
Public or Provincial Public Service.
11. Examination Fee .—
(a) Every applicants should firmly affix the receipt obtained
from in any Divisional Secretariat situated within the
Southern Province on the payment of Rs. 400 as
examinations fee to be credited to revenue head
2003-10-13 of the Chief Secretary of the Southern
Province, on the cage specified on the application. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the
applicants. Applications with receipts obtain in any
manner of payment other than specified year will be
rejected and this examinations fee is not refundable for
transferable under circumstances.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1272
(b) Issuing an admission card for the examination to a candidate
should be considered as an acceptance of the fact that he/
she has fulfilled the qualifications required to sit for the
examination. Candidate sitting the examination should
produce to the head of the examination hall the admission
cards with the signature attested. Further, candidate should
prove their identity to the head of the examination hall in
a satisfactory manner, for each paper he/she would sit for.
Any one of the following documents shall be produced to
the head of the examination hall to the purpose.
i. National Identity card issued by Department of
Registration of Person.
ii. Valid passport.
Applicants who failed to receive the admission cards 7 days
before the date of the examination should inform the secretary to
the Southern Province Public Service Commission of the fact in
writing or by calling No. 091-2234309 with the following details:
i. Name of the examination
ii. Full name of the Applicant
iii. Complete Address
iv. Name of the post office from where application was
posted, Registration No. and the date.
In case of failure to receive admissions due to non receipt or lost
of application, the applicant should present himself/herself with a
copy of the application and a copy of the registration slip to obtain
the admission card.
12.  Method of selection .—
 (a) A. Revenue Inspector (Class III - Open Competitive
Examination)
Suitable persons will be selected these posts based on
merit zone at the tests mention in paragraph 8 above
followed by an interview held to check qualifications as
per the provisions of P. A. C. 15/90 and district
population ratio. (In granting appointment, in case of
several applicants with equal marks at the final priority
level for granting appointment as per the no. of existing
vacancies, an interview will be held to select in order
the persons with the highest qualifications in terms of
educational qualifications )
B. Revenue Inspector (Class III - Limited Competitive
Examination)
Suitable persons will be selected these posts based on
Provincial merit zone at the tests mention in paragraph
8 above followed by an interview held to check
qualifications (In granting appointment, in case of
several applicants with equal marks at the final priority
level for granting appointment as per the no. of existing
vacancies, an interview will be held to select in order
the persons with the highest qualifications in terms of
educational qualifications)
(b) Every applicant will be given the opportunity to sit for the
exam without checking the qualifications based on merit of
examination results they will be call for the interview and those
who have not qualified according to the notification by the
closing date of applications will not be eligible to be granted
and appointment.
13. Provisions of false information  .— In case a candidate is
found not to have fulfilled the qualifications required to sit for this
examination, his/her candidacy may be canceled at any time, prior
to the examination, in the course of the examination  or following
the examination. Even after recruitment, if any information
furnished by a candidate is found to be false, his/her service shall be
terminated.
Final decision regarding any matter of not contain in this
notification will be taken by the Southern Province Public Service
Commission.
14. In a case of any Linguistic contradiction arise in any section
in Sinhala/English and Tamil translation of this notification, the
Sinhala section should be eligible.
S
AMAN DHARSHANA PANDIKORALA,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission,
Southern Province.
Sothern Province Public Service Commission,
6th Floor, District Secretariat Building,
Galle.
01st August, 2013.
(This Commission will not accept the responsibility in any manner
regarding applications containing matters mentioned in notifications
falsely prepared and published by various institutions, based on
this notification)

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1273
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
Code relevant for the Post (A/B) Open/Limited
District of permanent residence
................................C OMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT FOR THE POST OF .................IN SOUTHERN PROVINCE PUBLIC SERVICE - 2012
For office use only
Medium of choice to sit for the examination (Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(Indicate the relevant number in the box)
City of the Examination Centre
(Refer Paragraph ii of the examination notification)
01. Applicant’s Name with Initials:
(i) In Sinhala:—————————.
(ii) In English (In Capital Letters) :—————————.
E.g. - NIMAL M. A. S.
02. Name denoted by the Initials :
(i) In Sinhala :—————————.
(ii) In English (In Capital Letters):—————————.
03. (i) Permanent Address:—————————.
(ii) Name and Address of the place of work:—————————.
(iii) T elephone Number:—————————.
04. Address for sending the admissions:
(i) In Sinhala:—————————.
(ii) In English (In Capital Letters):—————————.
05. Sex : Female - 1,  Male - 0 ( Indicate the relevant number in the box)
06. National Identity Card Number :
Date of issue :—————————.
07. Marital Status : Single - 1, Married - 2.
08. Date of Birth: Y ear: Month:          Date:
Age as at the closing date for applications :
Years : Months:       Days:
09. Whether you are a Citizen of Sri Lanka by Birth or by Registration
(i) District of your permanent residence:—————————.
(ii) Divisional Secretariat Division:—————————.
(iii) Grama Niladhari Division:—————————.
(iv) Duration of residence in the district from:———up to:———

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1274
10. Educational Qualifications :
10.1 Details of the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination:
First Sitting: Second Sitting:
Year: Year:
Index No.: Index No.:
Subject Pass Subject  Pass Subject Pass Subject Pass
15 15
26 26
37 37
48 48
10.2     Details of the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year and Month: Index Number:
Subject Pass
1
2
3
4
10.3   Details of the Degree/Professional Qualifications obtained :
Name of the Degree/Diploma/ Date of award Subject pass Name of the issuing
Professional Certificate University/Institute
11.  If a serving employee of Public Service :
(i) Department/Institution: ————————————
(ii) Current Post: ————————————
(iii) Date of Appointment From: ————— upto: —————
(iv) Whether Permanent and Pensionable or Casual: ————————————
(Attach a copy of the letter of confirmation)
12.   Firmly paste the receipt for payment of Examination Fee here.
(keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
Applicant’s Declaration
I hereby admit that all informations furnished by me are accurate and true according to the best of my knowledge and belief, th e
receipt bearing Divisional Secretariat on payment of examination fee is affixed here and that I may be subject to dismissal if I am found
to be not eligible for this post prior to or after the examination or after being appointed to the post. Further I agree to abi de by the rules
and regulations effected by Southern Province Public Service.
No……………………………. and dated...…………………….issued by
…………………………… Commission in relation to holding this examination.
——————
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :——————

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1275
Attesting the Applicant’s Signature
I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss.…………………………………… submitting this application is known to me personally and
that he/she placed his/her signature before me on…………………………
————————,
Attester’s Signature.
Date:———————.
Full Name of the Attester:——————————————
Post :——————————————
Address: —————————————— (Place the Official Seal)
(If the applicant is already serving in public or provincial public service, the application should be certified by the head of  the
department)
Certification by the Head of the Institution/Department
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………………… submitting this application has been serving at
..…………………………………….with effect from..……………………
...................................in the post of.............................. , his/her service satisfactory, he/she can/cann ot be released from the current post
if he/she gets select for an appointment on the results of this examination, he/she has not been subject to any form of discipl inary action
(other than warnings) up to now and that the information furnished above this true.
————————,
(Signature of the Head of the Institution/Department)
Date:————————,
Full Name of the Head of the Institution/Department :————————,
Post :————————,
Address :————————, (Place the Official Seal)
08-938
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.