

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
ALHASAN FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 259]
————————
Presented by Hon. Hunais Farook M. P. for Vanni District
on 23rd July, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on July 15, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
to incorporate the Alhasan Foundation
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-2d
2—PL 007471—850 (07/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Alhasan Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
Short title.
25
30
2—PL 007381—75 (06/2013)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ALHASAN FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Centre called and known as “Alhasan
Foundation” has heretofore been established in Colombo in
Sri Lanka, for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Association according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public and advantage to
grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Alhasan Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.  of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Alhasan Foundation (hereinafter referred to as “the
Foundation”) and such other persons as shall hereafter be
admitted, as members of the Corporation hereby constituted,
shall be and become a body corporate (hereinafter referred
to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual succession under
the name and style of “Alhasan Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as “The Corporation”) and by that name may sue
and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to establish, maintain and conduct Islamic
Religious Schools, classes and book stalls for
promotion and achievement of the objects of the
Foundation;
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Alhasan
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Alhasan Foundation (Incorporation)2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) the study and promotion of the Islamic religion
and culture and the inculcation of the principles of
service of the community and the country through
its teachings;
(c) the teaching of Quran and traditions of Prophet
Mohamed (P.B.U.H.) to the Muslims;
(d) the collection of Zakath (Wealth Tax Obligation of
Muslims) to distribute among the Muslims to fulfill
their economic needs;
(e) the teaching of basic Islam to elderly Muslims and
the recitation of Quran;
(f) the establishment of a Counseling Centre to solve
the problems among Muslims according to the
teachings according to the teachings of Islam;
(g) the establishment of a Comprehensive Library and
the translation of rare and important books to
Sinhala and Tamil; or any other language as
necessary;
(h) the establishment of a well equipped Institution to
train students and teachers of Arabic Colleges to be
qualified in Information Technology;
(i) the collection of funds and other donations for the
aforesaid purposes;
(j) the use and application of the said funds to grant
scholarships to provide career guidance and
enhance educational; and
(k) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary,
conducive or incidental to the attainment of all or
any of the objects of the Foundation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Alhasan Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects and the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwise
obtain, land or buildings which may be required
for the purposes of the Corporation;
(b) to receive grants, gifts or donations, in cash or kind
whether from local or foreign sources;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiable,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open operate, maintain and close current,
savings and deposit accounts in any bank;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board may think fit;
(e) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation;
(f) to train personnel in Sri Lanka and/ or abroad for
the purpose of the Corporation; and
(g) to do all other necessary or expedient for the proper
and effective carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and a Secretary and
Treasurer elected in accordance with such rules.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Alhasan Foundation (Incorporation)4
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) The Affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being, be administered by the Board of Management
consisting seven (7) members inclusive of the Chairman,
Vice Chairman, the General Secretary, Deputy Secretary and
the Treasurer elected according to the rules of the
Corporation.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members summoned for
the purpose with two weeks’ notice and by a majority of
votes of not less than two-thirds of the members present and
voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act or any other written law for all or any of the following
matters;—
(a) the classification of membership, the resignation
from or vacation of or removal from office of office
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;
(b) the election of the members of Board of
Management and the Executive Committee and
their powers, conduct and duties and the terms of
office of members of the Board of Management and
the Executive Committee;
(c) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be observed and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee, the
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Alhasan Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
times, places, notices and agenda of such meetings,
the quorum thereof and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. The Foundation shall have its own fund to which—
(a) all the sums of money granted or donated to the
Association by any foreign or local, public or
private authority or individual; and
(b) all the sums of money received by the Association
in the carrying on of its affairs;
(c) the funds of the Association which are not
immediately necessary, shall be deposited in any
Bank or other institution and the proceeds by way
of dividends on such deposits shall be utilized for
the purposes of the Association;
(d) The Bank Account or Accounts of the Association
with any Bank or Banks shall operate and all
cheques drawn, signed and endorsed shall be signed
by any two members or by any one member and the
Secretary or Treasurer.
Finance of
the
Foundation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Alhasan Foundation (Incorporation)6
5
10
15
20
25
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of the commencement of this
Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to subscription and contribution payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
9. (1) the Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor at least once a year.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other Association or
Associations and which is or are by the rules there of
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Accounts and
Audit.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Alhasan Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
its or their members. Such Association or Associations shall
be determined by the Board at or immediately before, the
dissolution of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the republic or of anybody politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Alhasan Foundation (Incorporation)8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .