

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
337
337
wxl 1"852 - 2014 fmnrjdß 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'02'28
No. 1,852 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 28, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 339
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 21st March, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
March, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts I:III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,851 of 21.02.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
338
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
339
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th March, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
03rd February, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Y atinuwara Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Yatinuwara Medapalatha Division and General, District Secretariat,
Post of Marriage Registrar of Kandy.
Udapalatha (Kandyan/General)
02–720
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
340
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 31st March, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th January, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Passara Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Passara Town Division General, District Secretariat,
Badulla.
02–721
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
341
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th March, 2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
05th February, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Colombo Post of Muslim Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Colombo North (Mattakkuliya General, District Secretariat,
Area) in Colombo Division Dam Street, Colombo 12.
02–719
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
RATNAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th March, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th February, 2014.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
342
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ratnapura Embilipitiya Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General/Kandyan) of Embilipitiya General, District Secretariat,
Divisional Secretarial Area Ratnapura.
02–815
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th March, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th February, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Madawachchi Post of Additional Registrar of Muslim District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Marriages of Madawachchi Divisional General, District Secretariat,
Secretarial Area Anuradhapura.
02–814

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
343
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXPORT  AGRICULTURE
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Post of Extension Officer of Class III of Sri Lanka
Technological Service - 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from Citizens of Sri Lanka to
fill the vacancies of above mentioned post of Sri Lanka Technological
Service in the Department of Export Agriculture.
02. The candidates should not be less than 18 years or more
than 45 years of age. The upper age limit will not apply to those
who are already in Government or Provincial Government service.
Issuing of admissions to sit for the examination will not be considered
as an acceptance that the candidate is qualified for the post. The
candidature will be cancelled if it will be revealed that the candidate
lacks necessary qualifications when the candidates are called for an
interview to check the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette
Notification.
03. The monthly salary scale for this post according to Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) MN-3 is Rs. 15,005-
4 x 180 -6 x 240 - 11x320 -20x360 - Rs. 27,885.
04. This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to the Widow/Widower and Orphans' Pension Fund.
05. It is essential that candidates should have fulfilled all the
basic educational qualifications and professional qualifications
mentioned below, by the last date of closing applications.
Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) :
Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06
subjects with credits for Sinhala/Tamil or Literature,
Mathematics, Science and any other subject at not more
than two attempts ; and
G . C. E. (A/L) :
Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination at one
attempt in three Science subjects including two subjects
from Biology, Agriculture, Chemistry and Physics ; and
Professional Qualifications.– Should have obtained a two years
Diploma in Agriculture conducted by Government or a Recognized
Institute.
06. Mode of Applying :
(a) Application forms should be prepared using both sides
of an A4 size (21cm x 29cm) sheet including section 01 to
05 in the first page with accordance to the specimen
application form appended to this Gazette Notification.
(b) The name of the Examination mentioned in the heading of
the application form should be included in English in
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in addition
to Tamil in Tamil applications.
(c) Duly filled application forms should be forwarded under
registered cover to meet Commissioner General of
Examination, Sri Lanka Department of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla on or before 31.03.2014.
(d) The post applied for should be clearly written on the
upper left-hand corner of the envelope containing the
application form.
(e) The receipt obtained by paying Rs. 600 to be credited to
the income Head 2003-02-31 of Commissioner General
of Examinations at any District or Divisional Secretariat
of the Island should be affixed in the relevant space
provided in the application form. Keeping a photocopy
of the receipt will be useful.
(f) Applications that are incomplete and received late will be
rejected without prior notice and the Department will
not be responsible for loss of applications in the post or
any postal delays.
(g) The signature of the applicant should be attested by a
Principal of an Government School or a Justice of Peace or
an Attorney at Law or a staff grade officer in State Service.
(h) The candidates who are already in State Service should
forward the application form through the Head of the
Department.
07. Examination Procedure :
(a) Admissions will be issued by the Commissioner General
of Examination to the candidates who have sent
application forms. The candidate should produce the
attested admission to the supervisor in the prescribed
examination hall. Any candidate who fails to produce
the admission card will not be allowed to sit for the
examination.
(b) This examination will be held in June 2014, in Colombo.
The candidates who do not receive the admission before
07 days to the date of examination should inquire without
delay informing on the following details to the
Organization and Examination Branch of the
Department of Examination at Pelawatte, Battaramulla.
A notification will be published in newspapers by the
Department of Examinations as soon as the admission
cards are issued to candidates. If the admission card is

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
344
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. The full name of the candidate, address,
National Identity Card Number and name of the
examination should be mentioned in your query and it
would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the
time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e., a
copy of the application form, a copy of the payment
receipt, receipt of registration and in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request, furnishing a fax
number to which the admission card should be sent.
(i) Name of the Exam ;
(ii) Full name of the candidate ;
(iii) Address ;
(iv) Date, Post Office and the P ostal Code of the Post
Office where the application was posted ;
(v) Number and date of the receipt and the Divisional
Secretariat to which the money was paid.
(c) Transportation expense or any other expenses incurred
by the candidate in order to be present at the examination
will not be reimbursed.
(d) Identity.– The candidate should prove his/her identity
to the satisfactory of the supervisor on each subject he/
she sits for, herein,
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department of Registration of Persons ; or
(ii) V alid passport will be accepted.
The candidates who fail to produce documentation
to prove his/her identity will not be allowed to sit
for the examination.
(e) Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test (Subject No. 01) (Time : 1 hour :
Total Marks : 100)
The exam consists of 50 multiple choice and short
answer questions to determine the candidate's ability
of logical reasoning, analytical thinking and decision
making. All the questions should be answered.
(ii) Question Paper on Technology (Subject No. 02) -
(time 02 hours. Total Marks 100). Out of given
number of questions only 5 selected questions should
be answered.
Syllabus of the question paper on Technology :
1. General Agriculture and Principles.
2. Crop Production and Principles. Agronomical Facts.
3. Soil and fertilizers, plant nutrition, environmental
effects.
4. Crop propagation methods.
5. Diseases and pests, characteristics and damages.
6. Agricultural policies, past, present and future potentials.
7. Botanical information, climatic factors, fertilizer effects
and nutrition, diseases and pests, post harvest
technology related to export agricultural crops black
pepper, cinnamon, Coffee, Cocoa, Cardamom, Clove,
Nutmeg, betel and arecanut.
8. Export agricultural crops production, marketing and
export potentials.
9. Organic farming.
10. Farm management, production of plants and planting
materials and nursery management.
11. Agriculture extension methods and extension
methodology.
(f) The examination will only be held in Sinhala, English
and Tamil mediums and the candidates who sit for the
exam should appear for all the subjects of the examination
in one medium. The medium applied cannot be changed
later.
(g) Examination to recruit for this post will be held only in
Colombo.
08. Conditions of Employment :
(i) Selected candidates are obligated to work in any area of
the country.
(ii) Currently vacant districts and offices are mentioned
below :
(i) Monaragala
(ii) Badulla
(iii) Hambantota
(iv) Matara
(v) Galle
(vi) Rathnapura
(vii) Nuwara-Eliya
(viii) Kurunegala
(ix) Puttalam
09. Mode of recruitment .– The candidates who obtain 40% or
more marks in each paper at the examination will be called for an
interview based on the order of merit. Number of candidates to be
called for the interview will be twice as the existing vacancies.
Marks will not be given at the interview and the candidates who
have fulfilled the basic erquirements will be recruited in the order of
the total marks obtained at the examination. The Commissioner
General of Examinations will issue a personal result sheet to all of
the candidates who sat for the exam, including the subject-wise

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
345
marks and total marks obtained by each candidate, after a result
sheet including a list of qualified candidates in a number equal to
twice the existing vacancies is issued to the Director General of
Export Agriculture.
10. Any matter not mentioned here will be decided by the
appointing authority. Every candidate is obliged to follow the
Examination rules and Regulations mentioned in the Gazette
notification.
11. The Commissioner General of Examination will permit all
the candidates who have paid the relevant examination fee and
forwarded the applications on or before the closing date to sit for
the competitive examination on the presumption that only those
who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the gazette
notification have applied. The Commissioner General of
Examinations reserves the right to make decisions on conducting
the examination and issuing results and his decision shall be deemed
final.
W. D. L. G
UNARATHNE,
Director,
Director of Export Agriculture.
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
EXTENSION OFFICER OF CLASS III OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE - 2014
Medium applied : Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant No. in the cage)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In block capitals) Ex. : SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. National Identify Card No. :
03. Gender : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the relevant No. in the cage)
04. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In English captial letters)
4.1 Postal Address :–––––––––––.
(In English captial letters)
4.2 Telephone No.
(If any)
05. Marital status :
Single - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant No. in the cages)
06. 6.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
6.2 Age at the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Education qualifications :
(a) General certificate of education (O/L) :
First Attempt Second Attempt
Name of the exam ...................... .......................
Year and month ...................... .......................
Index No. ...................... .......................
Medium ...................... .......................
First Attempt Second Attempt
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 1.
2. 2.
3. 3.
4. 4.
5. 5.
6. 6.
7. 7.
8. 8.
(b) General Certificate of Education (A/L):
Year and month :–––––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––––.
Medium :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
(c) Professional qualification :
Name of the Diploma Year Index Subject Grade
and the Institute No. passed

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2014
346
08. (a) No. of the payment receipt
Date
Divisional Secretariat to which the
payment was made
Amount paid
Attach the payment receipt here
(If will be useful to keep a copy of the receipt)
09. Certification of the candidate :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I am aware
that if any of the particulars are found to be false or incorrect,
before the recruitment I will be subject to disqualification and if it
will be revealed offer the recruitment, I am subject to be dismissed
without any compensation.
Moreover, I accept the rules and regulation stipulated by the
Commissioner General of Examination for the conduct of this
examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
10. Attestation of signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms. ............................. is personally
known to me and she/he placed her sginature on my presence on
................. and she/he has paid the examination fee due and affixed
the receipt.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Affirm with official stamp)
02–730
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.