

<!-- page 1 -->

31
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.03'24
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 24.03.2023
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th April, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st March 2023.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January
, 2023.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
31 B 82439 - 353 (03/2023)
Page Page
 Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 32
wxl 2"325 - 2023  ud¾;= ui 24 jeks isl=rdod - 2023.03'24
no. 2,325  FRIDAy,  MARCh 24, 2023
Note.–    Inland Revenue (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of March 10, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

32
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.03'24
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 24.03.2023
miscellaneous notices
An  AcT  To  IncoRPoRATe  The  InSTITuTe  of  fAcILITIeS  mAnAGemenT  SRI LAnkA
I, W. D. Weerasinghe do hereby give notice under standing order No. 53 (1) of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill titled” An Act to incorporate the Institute of Facilities 
Management Sri Lanka.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka which has the following 
general objects:- 
(a) to protect amd promote the interests, status, welfare, rights and privileges of the profession and interest of the 
public in relation to the profession of Facilities Management ;
(b) to organize lectures and discussions and to publish books and other materials in order to disseminate the 
knowledge on Facilities Management and related subjects;
(c) to prescribe the qualifications and disqualifications for membership of the Institute and the standards of 
professional conduct for members of the Institute and to secure adherence thereto.
 etc.
 W. D. Weerasinghe,
 Member of Parliament,
 Ampara District.
03-566
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The "DAhAm SevAne SInGIThTho 
LAmA SAnWARDAnA PADAnAmA"
I, Gamini Lokuge, Do hereby give notice under - standing order No. 53(1) of the standing orders of the parliament of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to parliament a bill entitled "An Act to incorporate 
the  " DAhAM  SEV ANE  SINGIThTho  LAMA  SANWARDANA  PADANAMA".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said organization which has the following general objects. 
1. Educating pre-school children up to university students by facilitating many foreign language opportunities.
2. Serving all religious children together in one accord and developing spiritual equal qualities among all students.
3. Identifying and counseling different-able children and feeding malnourished childern in different communities.
 etc.
 
gamini Lokuge,
 Member of Parliament,
 Colombo District.
10th March, 2023.
03-572

<!-- page 3 -->

33
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.03'24
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 24.03.2023
An  AcT  To  IncoRPoRATe  The "my  DReAm  JAffnA"  founDATIon
I, Sarathi Dushmantha, do hereby give notice under No. 53(1) of the Standing order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to incorporate the  
"My Dream Jaffna" Foundation".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Foundation which has the following general objects:-. 
(a) to provide all necessary facilities to the public, having given priority to the development of Education;
(b) to give a helping hand to the renaissance in the field of agriculture, fisheries and livestock development; and
(c) to take constructive measures to build up a physically and mentally healthiest Society.
etc.   sarathi Dushmantha,
   Member of Parliament.
03-574
PrinteD   at   the   DePartment   oF   goVernment   Printing,   sri Lanka.