

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 04.12.2017
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2048$2 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 04 jeks i÷od - 2017'12'04
No. 2048/2 - MONDAY,  DECEMBER  04, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
 DIRECTIONS  TO  PREVENT  THE  MISUSE  OF  MOV ABLE  OR  IMMOV ABLE  PROPERTIES BELONGING  TO
THE  STATE  OR  STATE  CORPORATIONS  DURING  THE  PERIOD  OF  AN  ELECTION  FOR  THE  PROMOTION
OF  OR  IN  PREJUDICE  TO  ANY  PARTY,  GROUP  OR  CANDIATE  OR OBSTRUCTING  THE  CONDUCT  OF
THE ELECTIONS
THE Election Commission does hereby issue the following directions under Article 104B(04)(a) of the Constitution for
the purpose of preventing the use of any movable or immovable property belonging to the State or any State Corporation
for the purpose of promoting or preventing the election of any candidate of any political party or independent group at the
election for local authorities 2018 or using such properties in a manner that would obstruct the conduct of such election.
M
AHINDA D ESHAPRIYA, N. J. A BEYESEKERE, S. R ATNAJEEV AN H. H OOLE,
Chairman Member Member
On this 04th day of December 2017,
Elections Secretariat,
Sarana Mawatha,
Rajagiriya.
In terms of Article 104B(04)(a) of the Constitution, The Election Commission or the Commissioner General of
Elections shall have the power during the period of the election to prohibit the use of any movable or immovable property
belonging to the State or any State Corporation for the purpose of promoting or preventing the election of any candidate of
any political party or independent group contesting the election. Under Sub-paragraph (b) of that Article it shall be the duty
of every person or officer in whose custody or under whose control such property is for the time being, to comply with, and
give effect to such directions issued by the Election Commission or Commissioner General of Elections. All Public Officers
including all Secretaries to Ministries, and Chief Secretaries of Provinces should comply with these directions. Also the
Heads of institutions should ensure that all officers coming under their control comply with these directions. These directions
are applicable to all public institutions such as Ministries  Departments, Commissions, Provincial Councils, Local Authorities,
State Corporations, Statutory Boards, State Banks, State Universities and Companies taken over by the government.
02. Officials
(i) Since the skills and knowledge of public officers and their time are deemed to be State property, no public officer
should engage in any activity to promote any political party, independant group or candidate inside   office
1A   PG   3813 — 907  (12/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 04.12.2017
2A
premises or within the prescribed office hours or after reporting to work or while on duty leave. Officers who are
not entitled to political rights should not engage in political activities even when on leave. Even the officers who
are entitled to political rights may engage in political activities during office hours, only when on personal leave or
special leave approved in advance.
(ii) No officer or employee is entitled to use State properties viz. other public officers, vehicles, communication
equipment, printers, telephone facilities, etc. for political activities and such use is strictly prohibited.
(iii) Officers of public institutions should refrain from making any recruitment, appointment and promotion or
transfer of whatever nature in public institutions without the approval of the Election Commission other than
those which are formally executed under the powers vested in the Commissions appointed on the recommendation
of the Constitutional Council.
(iv) General transfers of all public officers including teachers and principals of government schools who would be
deployed for election duties in the areas where an election is to be held should be suspended for the period
starting from the day on which the nominations are received and ending two weeks after the date of poll. Transfers
of public officers or officers of State Corporations who would not to be engaged in election duties should not
be carried out on political grounds during the period of election and it is the responsibility of all relevant
authorities to give effect to transfers without leaving room for complaints of political intervention. This is not
applicable to transfers done on disciplinary orders and if any transfer is required to be  made on exigency of
service or under special circumstances such requirement should be brought to the notice of the Election
Commission and approval obtained.
(v) The consent of the Election Commission may be granted for recruitment/internal promotions initiated before
the election is declared and was considered by the Secretary to a ministry or head of a department to implement
such recruitement of promotion without postponement under an all island programme and when the Commission
is satisfied that recruitment/promotion common to whole public service or public sector is bieng out without
any political intervention. In any of these instances, a request should be made to the Commission.
(vi) When recruitments are made at divisional or provincial levels for the purpose of avoiding interruption to sanitary,
janitorial or maintenance services and of maintaining essential services, such recruitments should be made with
the concurrence of the Election Commission and it is the responsibility of relevant authorities to carry out
such recruitment in a transparent manner, free of political intervention.
03. Functions, Mobile Services and Trade Fairs
(a) Functions :
Functions such as laying foundation stones, opening ceremonies and vesting in the public utilizing government
funds and State properties should not be organized or conducted during the period of election since the politicians
who attend these functions may express opinions and views on the election and the conduct of these function
ceremonially may lead to the promotion or cause prejudice to a party, group or candidate.
In the case of functions scheduled before the publication of the poll notice and which cannot be cancelled or
postponed, the Election Commission should be informed for instructions of the Commission to proceed ahead.
In the event of conducting such a function spending government funds and if a promotion of or prejudice to any
party/group or candidate has taken place at such function, the officials who organized such function should be
held responsible. The officers who organize functions/events should bring to the notice of the Returning Officers
of respective districts of such events scheduled to be held during the period of election well in advance enabling
them to make arrangements to observe such events and keep records. It is strictly prohibited  to make any
statement or to do any act, display or distribute flags/banners/posters/leaflets/notices promoting parties/groups
or candidates at any function conducted spending State funds during the period of election and the officers or
authorities of State institutions who organize or fund such functions should prevent such promotions from
taking place.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 04.12.2017
3A
(ii) Mobile Services and Trade Fairs
Since there is a tendency to use those mobile services and trade fairs conducted during the election period
utilizing public funds and State property to  promote cause prejudice to parties/groups or candidates, organizing
or conducting of such trade exhibitions or carnivals should be avoided during the period of the election. Any such
trade exhibitions or carnivals which have been scheduled prior to the publication of the Notice of  Poll to be held
should be brought to the notice of the Election Commission during the period of election and impossible to be
cancelled or postponed, for instructions of the Commission. In the event of conducting such trade exhibitions or
carnivals using government funds and promotion of or prejudice to any party/group or candidate is cuased at
such trade exhibitions or carnivals, the officials who organized such events should be held responsible. The
officers who organize mobile services and trade exhibitions should also take action to bring to the notice of the
Returning Officers of respective districts of such event to be held during the period of election well in advances
thereby enabling them to make arrangements to observe those and keep records.
It is strictly prohibited to make any statement or do any act, display or distribute flags/banners/posters/leaflets/
notices promoting parties/groups or candidates at mobile services and trade exhibitions conducted spending
State funds during the period of election and the official or State institutions that organize or fund such events
should prevent such promotions and causing of  prejudice to any candidate or party or group.
04. Implementation of programmes to provide common amenities and aids and Special Projects
(i) Long term or medium term special programmes may be implemented for the provisions of facilities to the
public or for the development of the country or continuing programmes to provide citizens with common
amenities when they cannot  be suspended due to the election. Action should be taken to ensure that no promotion
of or causing of prejudice to any party/group or candidate takes place through the implementation of such
special projects or continuing programmes after the issue of the Notice of Poll.
(ii) The Election Commission wil monitor whether any promotion of parties/groups or candidates is taking place
through the implementaton of the aforesaid special projects or continuing programmes conducted during the
period of election.
(iii) During the period of elections the launch of programmes to distribute State lands, to award title deeds for state
lands, deeds to transfer ownership of houses and reliefs to residents in election areas, providing subsides,
fertilizer, agro-equipment for the plantation industry, and providing sports goods, equipment for self employment,
bicycles, solar power lamps and building material for house construction, release of housing loans/compensations
etc. should be suspended, However, if it is apparent that suspension of the programmes will impede the meeting of
needs of the general public, the Election Commission should be consulted for necessary instructions. In the event
the programmes are already initiated or for which approval has already been obtained they be proceeded with it
should be the responsibility of the officers who are charged with the implementation of such programme to
implement them with the participation of only the relevant officials whithout leaving any room for the promotion of
parties/groups or candidates.
(iii) The directions preventing the use of State properties for the promotion or prevention of election of members
should be strictly adhered to without any favour. The Secretaries to Ministries should pursue action to give
instructions in this regard to the Heads of Departments, State Corporations and other institutions coming under
the purview of the the Ministry. Also, the Secretaries of Ministries and Heads of institutions should ensure that all
officers of their respective institutions comply with these directions and instructions.
(iv) Public officers should essentially draw their attention to Article 104B(02) of the Constitution which reads as
“It shall be the duty of the Commission to secure the enforcement of all laws relating to the holding of the election
and it shall be the duty of all authorities of the State charged with the enforcement of such laws, to cooporate with
the Commission to secure such enforcement”.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 04.12.2017
4A
(v) Please note that the responsibility of bringing the contents of these directions to the notice of  Ministers, State
Ministers, Deputy Ministers and the staff of the Ministers lies with the Secretary to the  relevant Ministry while
the responsibility of bringing such matters to the notcie of Chief Ministers and other Ministers of the Provinces
lies with the Chief Secretary and the Secretaries of the relevant Provincial Ministries.
(vi) The Secretaries to Commissions should pursue action to bring these directions to the notice of the Chairpersons
and Members of such Commissions, as applicable.
(vii) In addition to the provisions of the Constitution, it is the duty of the Chief Accounting Officer or Accounting
Officer of Ministries/Departments/Institutions to prevent or to take action to prevent the misuse of State
properties.
(viii) Non-compliance with these directions is a punishable ofence under Article 104(22) of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The term “State” wherever it appears in these directions means all State institutions including State Ministries,
Departments, Provincial Councils, Local Authorities, State Corporations, Statutory Boards, State Banks,
State Universities, Companies taken over by the state and institutions of which more than 50% of shares
is held by the State or State owned companies.
The term “public officers and employees” wherever it appears in these directions means all persons who
engage and are employed in the institutions aforesaid and receive a salary or allowance.
05. Vehicles
(i) All officers in whose custody the vehicles belonging to the State including motor cars, jeeps, cabs and buses,
should take extra care in maintaining vehicle pools and assigning such vehicles during the period of election so
as to prevent such vehicles from being used for the promotion of election campaigns of any political party,
independent group or candidate, It should be noted that assigned vehicles belonging to the State and vehicles
rented to be used for specific duties are included in the said category. During the period of election running
charts should be properly maintained particularly in respect of pool vehicles and vehicles other than assigned
vehicles and the running charts should be scrutinized by a staff officer on a daily basis to make sure that such
vehicles are not being used for any political promotional purpose. Action should be taken to ensure that State
vehicles are not used for the promotion of or causing prejudice to any political party on the pretext that they are
used for official purposes with fraudulant entries to that effect in the running charts.
(ii) No vehicle other than those two vehicles assigned for the purpose of providing security to H. E. the President
can be operated without the exclusive registration number issued by the Department of Motor Traffic and as
such no Minister, Deputy Minister, member of their staff or an other person can use State vehicles or vehicles
belonging to public institutions without the relevant registration number. Therefore, Secretaries of Ministries
and Heads of Departments should ensure that no vehicle belonging to State Departments or State institutions is
operated with garage numbers (fake numbers).
(iii) All Secretaries of Ministries/Heads of Departments should ensure that public funds are not utilized for the use
of airplanes or helicopters or other vehicles for political promotional activities.
06. State offices, buildings, schools, other buildings belonging to the State and circuit bungalows
(i) Government offices, buildings, schools, other buildings and circuit bungalows belonging to the State too are
State property. Therefore, such buildings should not be used to conduct political meetings, discussions, etc. It
should not be construed that these directions prevent the buildings and halls which can usually be reserved on
payment of specified fees by any political party/group, candidate, from being so reserved during the period of
election on payment of relevant fees without causing any discrimination towards any Party/Group. It is strictly

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 04.12.2017
5A
prohibited to provide circuit bungalows, rest houses or holiday resorts owned by the state free of charge to
persons engaged in election promotional activities. It is strictly prohibited to reserve any  circuit bungalows, rest
houses, holiday resorts free of charge to persons engaged in political propaganda activities, Circuit bungalows,
rest houses, and holiday resorts belonging to the State or State institutions and situated in the electoral areas to
any politician, officer or any other person on a full time basis during the period of election. Also, no person
who avails of accommodation at the said circuit bungalows should be allowed to engage in promoting any party,
group or candidate. Any election promotional material such as posters, banners, cutouts, bill boards ect, should
not be allowed to be displayed on buildings owned by the state or public institution or within their premises.
(ii) When playgrounds or bare lands and hall or such other buildings belonging to the State, Provincial Councils and
Local Authorities are reserved for the purpose of holding election rallies to promote a Political Party/
Independent Group or candidate, such reservation should be done in a transparent manner ensuring that no
special favour, priority or discrimination is meted out to any party, independent group or candidate, Also such
venues should not be reserved for the use of any one party/group/candidate or for any other purpose for a
prolonged period of time so as to deprive the use of such venues to others.
07. General
(i) State property, Public institutions, vehicles, equipment and public officers in particular, should not be allowed
to be used for the promotion of parties, groups or candidates in relation to the election. No officer should
allow public officers of State institutions and vehicles belonging to the State or State institutions or rented
vehicles stationed outside the electoral area to be attached to offices or institutions situated within the electoral
area on the pretext that such attachments are done to carry out urgent duties or special development project
work in electoral areas but used to promote (or cause to prejudice) parties, groups or candidates. Officers,
vehicles, equipment, belonging to Media Units of any State institution including Provincial Councils, Local
Authorities, State Corporations, Boards, State Banks, other Statutory institutions, and State Universities should
not be used for the promotion of any party, group or candidate. If entertainment equipment such as podiums,
stages, decorations and vehicles, airplanes and helicopters belonging to State institutions are usually hired
under normal circumstances, such hiring during the period of election should be done in a transparent manner
offering equal opportunities for all parties/groups to hire such equipments.
(ii) Promotion of or causing prejudice to any party/group or candidate should not be done by way of broadcasting/
telecasting/publishing through television, radio and press advertisement or by displaying billboards at public
places spending public funds to give publicity to development programmes of the government or to anniversaries/
commemorations.
12- 919
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.