

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of September 29, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 02.10. 2017)
HESHA FRIENDSHIP FOUNDATION
 (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Hesha Friendship Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Bandula Lal Bandarigoda, M. P.
for Galle District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Hesha Friendship Foundation
 (Incorporation)
2—PL 005442—  300 (09/2017)
Preamble.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE HESHA FRIENDSHIP FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Association called and known as the
“Hesha Friendship Foundation”  has heretofore been formed
in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Hesha Friendship
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2017.
2. From and after the commencement of this Act, such
and so many persons as now are members of the “Hesha
Friendship Foundation”  (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of
“
Hesha Friendship Foundation ” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued
and have full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide education, grant scholarships, assist pre-
school children;
(b) to provide provision to protect, maintain discipline
and cultural ethics;
Incorporation
of the
Hesha
Friendship
Foundation
.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Hesha Friendship Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(c) to promote education and research;
(d) to implement academic and training programs
relevant for environment conservation of rural
areas;
(e) to extend support to services rendered by senior
citizens organizations and to encourage such
organization:
(f) to establish information technology centres for the
advancement of scientific studies;
(g) to implement social mobilization programs and
educational and training programs for the
development of the children and women;
(h) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or cast;
(i) to take necessary steps to promote artistics creation,
sport skills and technical knowledge of school
leavers and to set up vocational training centers;
and
(j) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4. (1) The management  of the affairs of the Corporation
shall, subject to  the rules corporation, be administered by
Committee of Management consisting of not more than
eleven office bearers inclusive of the  Chairman, Secretary,
Treasurer and such number of members as may be provided
or in rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act and shall continue to hold office until a new
Committee of Management is elected in accordance with
the rules section 6 of this Act.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Hesha Friendship Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any building
or structures on any land held by the Corporation and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
to make rules, not inconsistant with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, on all or any of the following
matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members;
(b) the election of office bearers, the resignation from,
vacation of or removal from office bearers and their
powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee of
the Management and its powers, duties and conduct
and the terms of office of members of the Committee
of Management;
(d) the powers, duties and functions and conduct of
the officers, agents and servents of the Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Committee of
Management, the times, places, notices and agenda
of such meetings, the quorum thereof and the
conduct of business thereat;
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Hesha Friendship Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation,the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the corporation,
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall
be paid to the Corporation for purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees
or grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure  incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its power, duties and functions under this Act.
9. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Corporation  shall be able and capable in law
to acquire and hold any property movable and immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise,
and all such property shall be held by the Corporation
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Hesha Friendship Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
for the purposes of this Act and subject to the rules of the
Corporation made under section 06, with full power to  sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which, is or
are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members.
11. (1) The Financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calender year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and  expenditure, assests and liabilities
and  transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be  audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section "qualified auditor" means -
(a) An individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
any other institute established by law, possesses
a certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Council of such Institute; or
(b) A firm of Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the  Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Council of such institute.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Audit and
Accounts of
the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Hesha Friendship Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
President and the Secretary or two other members of the
Corporation as may be decided by the Committee of
Management who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence and such  signing shall be
independent of the signing  of any person as a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic,
or  corporate, or of any other persons.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Hesha Friendship Foundation
 (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .