

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILVA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by the Hon. (Dr.) Rohana Pushpa Kumara, M. P. for
Badulla District on May 08, 2012
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
——————
——————
[Bill No. 167]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on April 09, 2012)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
(Incorporation)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILVA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the "Nimal
Siripala de Silva Foundation" has heretofore been  formed
in Badulla for the purpose of effectually  carrying out and
transacting the objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application;
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Nimal Siripala de Silva
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2012.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation” (hereinafter referred
to as the “Foundation”)  or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate  with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the "Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation"
(hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") and by that
name may sue and be sued in all courts with  full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasrue.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
Incorporation
of the Nimal
Siripala de
Silva
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(a) to give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needy
school children and youth to enable them to
continue their education, assist them in their
educational, cultural and scientific activities and
to establish permanent and mobile libraries;
(b) to organize seminars, workshops, lectures,
exhibitions, competitive tests and educational tours
with a view to promoting the educational activities
of school children and youth and to hold
competitions and training camps in order to
improve their sports skills and artistic skills and to
take steps, including the award of prizes and
certificates and giving assistance for local or foreign
tours to talented children;
(c) to train persons for leadership and to utilize the
youth labour for the welfare of the public;
(d) to take the necessary steps to promote artistic
creations, sports skills and technical knowledge of
school leavers and to set up vocational training
centers as well as give them assistance to persue
studies in computer science and technology and to
establish institution to provide such study;
(e) to assist by granting scholarships to students
selected to universities and technical colleges and
to establish self-employment opportunities for
unemployed youth and to provide loans and to
inaugurate various savings schemes;
(f) to inaugurate and maintain pre-schools for early
childhood development of the poor children,
inaugurate and maintain classes in various
languages and various subjects for elders, school
children, school leavers and provide them with
other facilities;
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(g) to provide lands and houses to families who do not
own lands and houses, inaugurate water supply
schemes in areas where there is a shortage of water,
take steps to prevent and minimize natural disasters
provide buildings to schools with less facilities and
to cater to other needs of such schools and provide
infrastructure facilities such as roads, electricity and
health in various areas;
(h) to assist in the development of educational
religious, cultural, aesthetic, sports and scientific
facilities without any reference to race, religion or
caste and to conduct various festivals and
competitions;
(i) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses for displaced persons and elders and
establish and maintain children's homes and day
care centers for children and elders;
(j) to promote, arrange and organize exhibitions,
lecturers, seminars, discussions, workshops, debates,
panel discussions, tours, pleasure trips or such other
activities with a view to accomplishing the
objectives of the Corporation and to print, publish
and distribute such books, journals, bulletins and
newspapers are necessary to achieve these objects;
(k) to provide facilities for the blind, deaf, dump,
disabled, aged and displaced persons and dump by
the establishment and maintenance of houses; and
(l) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
of Directors consisting of Chairman, Vice Chairman and a
Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer and another nine
more members elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(3) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors, a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vcancy and such a new member shall  hold office for a period
of four years.
5. Subject to the Provisions of this Act, and any other
written Law, Corporation shall have the power to:-
(a) acquire, hold or take any movable or immovable
property for the Corporation or give on lease or
hire, mortgage, pledge, sell, exchange or otherwise
alienate, encumber or dispose of any immovable
property of the Corporation.
(b) enter into an perform or carry out whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation;
(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or in
kind;
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(d) advance or lend and to borrow money for the
purpose of the Corporation in such manner and upon
such security as the Corporation may think fit;
(e) invest its funds, create and administer Trusst and to
maintain current, deposit and savings accounts in
any Bank;
(f) publish or cause to be published books, journals
magazines and other literature and establish and
maintain libraries, book shops and printing presses;
(g) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over officers and servants required for
the  carrying out of the objects of the  Corporation
and to prescribe their terms and conditions of
service and dismiss such officers; and
(h) generally do all such other acts and things as are
necessary for and incidental or conducive to the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
 6. (1) It shall be lawful for  the  Corporation,  from
time to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by
a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, on all or any of the
following matters:–
(a) the admission, resignation or expulsion of
members;
(b) the election of the office-bearers, the registration
from, or vacation of or removal from office of office-
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Board of Directors
and its powers, conduct and duties and the terms of
office of the members of the Board of Directors and
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
the filling of vacancies of the members of the Board
of Directors;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors
the times, places, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum therfore and the conduct of
business thereat;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a  rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that date shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of the Act.
8. (1) The corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
bequest, donations, subscription, contributions  fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Directors shall determined.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required  to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation
in the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act.
15
10
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 8 -->

7Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
(Incorporation)
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Property
remaining
after
dissolution.
Accounts and
audit.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property both movable or immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant
lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and be subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation and the Corporation shall have full power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as membership
fees.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains after the satisfaction of  its debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which are by
the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any income or
property among their members. Such institution or
institutions shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at, or immediately before the time of the
dissolution.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper acccounts to be kept of all money received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
5
15
10
20
25
25

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
(Incorporation)
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instruments whatsoever except in the presence of the
Chairman and one other member of the Board of Directors,
who shall write and sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic of any body politic, corporate or of
any other persosn.
15. In the event of any inconsistency betwiin the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Seal of the
corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhalal text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
5
10

<!-- page 10 -->

9Nimal Siripala de Silva Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .