

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
1
1
wxl 1"583 _ 2009 ckjdrs 02 jeks isl=rdod _ 2009'01'02
No. 1,583 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 02, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... -
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 3
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such Notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th January, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th
December, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,582 of 26.12.2008 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
2
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Sta ndard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
B5 – B 79901

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
3
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  SECOND LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE,  SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE,  SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFIC SERVICE
SRI LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE,  SRI LANKA  POLICE  SERVICE  AND  SRI LANKA   ARCHITECTURES'
SERVICE  -  2008
EFFICIENCY Bar Examination and the Second Language Test for Officers in the above mentioned Services will be held in Colombo and
Jaffna in April 2009.
02. Time Tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the both Efficiency Bar Examination at the same time.
03. Syllabus :
Service Efficiency Bar Examinations Date and Appendix
Number of the relevant to the
Gazette Syllabus
Notification
Sri Lanka Administrative First Efficiency Bar Examination 14.11.2005 'C'
Service 1419/3
Second Efficiency Bar - Do - 'D'
Examination
Second Language Test - Do - ‘E’
Sri Lanka Accountants First Efficiency Bar 27.07.2001 'B'
Service Examination 1194/26
Second Efficiency Bar Examination - Do - 'D'
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations at one sitting or different occasions, if they wish
so.
However officers are required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within the prescribed period. Action will be taken to
conduct Oral Tests for the officers who sit for the Second Language Test at one centre.
04. (a) Subjects prescribed for the Efficiency Bar in each Service are as follows :
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours
01 Constitutional Law and 3 20 Economics and Social Politics 3
Administrative Law (with Special reference to Sri
Lanka)
02 The Legal System of Sri 3 21 Systems relating to 3
Lanka Development Administration
(with special reference to Sri
Lanka)
03 Criminal Law and Evidence 3 2 2 Management and Organization 3
Law

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
4
23 Public  Sector Financial 3
Management
05 Administration 3
06 Economics 3
07 Social Science 3
08 English 3
Second Language Test Officer in other services
mentioned in this notification
can also apply for the 2nd
Language Test, if they wish so.
09 Sinhala (Written) 2
10 Tamil (Written) 2
11 English (Written) 2
12 Sinhala (Oral)
13 Tamil (Oral)
14 English (Oral)
Sri  Lanka Accountant Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours
30 Government Financial 3 3 6 Management Accountancy 3
Procedures
31 Law and Management 3 3 7 Public Financial 3
Management
32 Administration 3 38 Management and 3
Organisation
33 Reports writing and 3 Second Language Test
presenting information to Officers who apply for this
Management test pl ease see under Sri
Lanka Administrative
Service for subjects and
subject numbers
Sri Lanka Police Service
Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours
80 Criminal Procedure Code & Evidence Ordinance 3
81 Penal Code and Police Ordinance 3
Officer who apply for the Second Language - Please See under Sri Lanka
Administrative Service for subjects and subjects numbers.
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
5
Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Architecture's Service and Sri Lanka Scientific Service
Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours
04 Financial Systems 3
05 Administration 3
04(b) Names of Examinations
Service Names of Examinations
Sri Lanka Administrative Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Administrative Service Second Efficiency Bar Examination 02
Sri Lanka Administrative Service Second Language Test 03
Sri Lanka Accountants' Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Accountants' Service Second Efficiency Bar Examination 02
Sri Lanka Scientific Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Architectures' Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Police Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Engineering Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
05. Exemption from the requirement of passing Efficiency Bar Examination
Sri Lanka Accountant Subject Qualification to be exempted
Service
Second Efficiency Bar 36 - Management Diploma in Public Finance Management conducted by
Examination Accountancy Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration;
37 - Public Finance
Management or
38 - Management and Higher Diploma in  computer programming conducted
Organization  by Business Management Institution;
or
Post graduate Diploma in Accountancy, Commerce, Management
Public Administration, Business Administration Computer Science/
Master of Arts/ph.d;
or
passing the final examination in one of the following
Institute of  Chartered Accountants,
Institute of Chartered Management Accountants
Chartered Association of Certified  Accountant,
British Computer Association,
Australian Computer Association,
or
Any other similar qualification
recognized by the Board.
6. Arrangements will be made by the commissioner General of Examination to enable the candidates to answer all the Subjects in
Sinhala, Tamil or English other than the question papers relating to languages.
7. If any candidate is later found to have sat in a medium in which he is not entitled to sit, his candidature will be cancelled .
8. Application should be submitted in the specimen appended and in such a way that nos. 1-7 appears on the 1st page. The
application form should be filled by own handwriting. Applications that do not comply with the specimen or that have not been
completed properly will be rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application forwarded to the
Department of Examinations with the candidate for future reference in making any inquiries with regard to the admission cards.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
6
9. Application should be sent through the respective Head of Department by registered post to reach the following address on or
before 30th January 2009. Application received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
Commissioner General,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta - Battaramulla.
10. A notification will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued t o
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of  such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. The Department of Examinations should be informed
of it by a letter of inquiry along with the certified photocopy of the application form, receipt of registration and, in case o f
applicants outside Colombo, a Fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
11. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to comply with the requirements as laid down in paragraph 10 above will not
be entertained.
12. The attention of all candidates is invited to Circular No. SE 274 of 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the use of identity Cards. It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity through any of the followin g
identity card at the Examination Hall.
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) V alid Passport.
13. Examination fee will be as follows :
(a) First sitting (Whole examination or part there of) free of charge :
(b) Each subsequent sitting
Rs. cts.
Complete Examination 115.00
One Subject 75.00
Oral Test 75.00
The fees should be paid in revenue stamps duly cancelled by the candidate with his signature thereon.
D. Dissanayake,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
02nd January 2009.
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
Appendix 'C'
(a) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service will comprise the following
subjects :
(1) Law
(2) Administration
(3) ( a) Economics : or
(b) Sociology :
(4) English

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
7
Scheme of Examinations
(1) Law (consist of 3 papers)
Syllabus :-
Subject No. 01 - Constitutional Law and Administrative Law
(i) The Structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the second Republic Constitution.
(ii) The Executive, President of the Republic, Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister, Central Government Department and
the Public Service
(iii) Administration of Justice
(iv) Judicial Control over Administration.
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and fundamental Duties.
(vi) Delegated Legislation
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities.
(viii) Fundamental Rights.
Subject No. 02 - The Legal System of Sri Lanka
(i) The Legal history of Sri Lanka
(ii) The Organization of the Courts ;
(iii) The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 6)
(iv) The act of No.44 of 1971 Administration of Justice.
Subject No. 03 - Criminal Law and Evidence Law
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinance
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain 35% in each paper and an average of 40%.
(2) Subject No. 05 - Administration ; One paper based on following  :
(i) Office and field organization and methods ;
(ii) The Establishement Code Chapters ;
I, II, III, V, VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV, XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII.
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain 40 percent.
(3) (a) Subject No. 06 - Economics - One paper based on the following ;-
(i) Principles of  economic with special reference to the theories of  Value, Production and Distribution
(ii) Money, Production and Distribution ;
(iii) Economic Structure of Sri Lanka
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
(b) Subject No. 07- Sociology - One paper based on the following (with special reference to Sri Lanka)
(i) Social Structure, Organization and functions ;
(ii) Human relationships and groupings ;
(iii) Kinship, marriage and the family ;
(iv) Rural and Urban Society ;
(v) Social stratification and differentiation ;
(vi) Social Control ;
(vii) Culture, religion, morals and values;
Note : A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
8
(2) Subject No. 08 - English
Content
Listening and Speaking Skills
The candidate should possess  the ability to function effectively in the following language functions
- General Greetings and Introductions
- Giving and  Getting Informations
- Advising, Suggesting and Expressing Opinions
- Describing Events and Situations
- Telephone Skills
- Interviewing Skills
- Meeting
- Listening and Note Taking Skills
English Grammar
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammer in the spoken the written language is expected from the candi date.
- Tense and Number
- Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/Compound Complex)
- Relative Clauses
- Reported Speech
- Adjectives and Adverbs
- Determiners
- Prepositions
Writing Skills
The Knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing in tested in this area of study.
- Internal modes of Communication
- Formal Correspondence skills
- Writing Descriptions/Explanations
- Summary writing Skills
- Report Writing Skills
- Meeting Minutes/Agendas/Invitations
- Comprehension
Reading Skills
Candidates ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/written interpretation is expected.
- Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text
- Reading and Interpretation (verbal/Written)
- Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage
Note : A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
9
Appendix "D"
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
The Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service will comprise the following subjects;
(1) Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka),
(2) The Process for Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka),
(3) Management and Organization,
(4) Public Sector Financial Management.
SYLLABUS
(1) Subject No. 20 - Economic and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka)
One paper based on the factors which influence the formulation of economic and social policy in Sri
Lanka. The application of the principles of Economics and Sociology in the recent economical, social
and political history of Sri Lanka.
Note: A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
(2) Subject No. 21 - The process of Development Administration  (with special reference to Sri Lanka) One paper
based on the Institution of development administration, their working and their inter - relationships
with special reference to -
(a) The Machinery of Government in Sri Lanka.
(b) The constitutional background of the machinery of Government in Sri Lanka.
(c) Provincial Councils and Local Government.
(d) People’s Organizations.
(e) Public Corporations.
Note: A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
(3) Subject No. 22 - Management and Organization ; One paper based on -
the principles of management and organization;
the application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector modern tools and
techniques of management.
Note: A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
(4) Subject No. 23 - Public Sector Financial Management - One paper based on following.
(a) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka
Constitutional Provisions Relating to Public Financial
Management
Parliamentary Control Over Public Finance
Meaning of Fund
Consolidated Fund and Its operation
Meaning and Methods of Appropriation
Contingencies Fund
Other Funds and their Operation
Government Revenue
Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
Powers and Functions of the Treasury
Warrants and Imprest Authority
Auditor General, his Powers and Functions
Committee on Public Expenditure
Committee on Public Enterprises

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
10
(b) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers
and Revenue Accounting Officers and their Powers Function
(c) Internal Audit
(d) Public Expenditure Planning and Management :
Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
Identification of Government Policies, Goals Targets and the Work
Programmes
Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and
Prioritization of them
Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of
Revenue and Expenditure
(e) Variations of Approved Estimates of Expenditure
Application of Virement Procedure
Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries
Total Cost Estimates and Revisions
Supplementary Estimates
(f) Losses and Waivers of Govt. Properties
(g) Miscellaneous Accounting Matters
(h) Delegation of Functions for Financial Control
(i) Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure
(j) Govt. Procurement Procedure
Procurement of Goods, Services and Works
Composition, Appointment, Powers and Functions of Tender
Boards and Technical Evaluation Committees
Tender Evaluation Procedure
Management of Donor Funded Projects.
Note - A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
Appendix "B"
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTANT’S  SERVICE
Fist Efficiency Bar Examination
The First Efficiency Bar Examination will comprise of 4 papers of 3 hours each in the following subjects:
Government Financial Procedure:
Law and Management:
Administration:
Report writing and Presenting Information to management.
Officers may take up the subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or on separate
occasions if they so desire.
Candidates will be required to obtain 40 percent in each paper for a pass.
SYLLABUS:-
(1) Government Financial Procedures:- Candidates will be tested on the application of the Government Financial Regulations and
Treasury Circulars in respect to Government transaction, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditur e, foreign

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
11
aid, annual and supplementary estimate, public debt, procurements, tenders imprests and advances, financial sanctions, the acco unts of
the island, functional and economic classification, programme and performance budget, functions of the Minister of Finance the General
Treasury the Planning Ministry, the Secretaries, the Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee.
LAW  AND  MANAGEMENT
Law:
Definition of Law,
Legal systems in Sri Lanka,
Court system in Sri lanka,
Law of Contracts,
Law of agency,
Sale of goods,
Hire purchase,
Negotiable instruments,
Guarantee,
Insurance.
Management :
Introduction to management,
Functions and skills of managers,
Planning process and setting organizational levels,
Organizations Structure,
Management of human resources,
Performance evaluation,
Promotion,
Motivation,
Leadership,
Communication,
Decision making,
Problem solving,
Management of change,
Managing conflicts,
Managing time,
Quality circles and productivity,
Management ethics and responsibility.
Administration :- Candidates will be tested on provisions in the Establishment Code Part I and Part II.
Report Writing and Presenting Information to Management;
Importance of timeliness, accuracy, completeness and relevance in relation to management
information,
Dealing with reference materials,
Periodic and ad-hoc reports,
Writing minutes and reports of meetings,
Structure of Management reports,
Significant results to be highlighted,
Interpretation of results,
Suggestions to variations,
Use of statistical methods in analyzing data,
Performance comparison,
Use of ratios, percentages in management reports,
Diagrammatic representations,
Listening to professional talks and lectures,
Reporting lectures in speech,
Panel discussions,
Seminar skills,
Delivering a speech,

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
12
Appendix "D"
The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Accountant's Service will comprise the following subjects;-
(1) Management Accounting
(2) Public Finance Management
(3) Management and Organization
Officers may take up the subjects of the 2nd efficiency bar examination on one and the same occasion or on separate occasions a s they
so desier. A candidate will be required to obtain minimum of 40 percent of the marks for a pass.
Scheme of Examination
(1) Management Accounting :  A paper of 3 hour duration.
Syllabus :  Control theory in accounting feed back, open and closed loop systems. Types of standard costs ideal basic and
correct.
Principles and practice of setting performance standards and value standards revision of standard, consideration of the learning
curve and motivation. The analysis significance presentation and investigation of variances and sub-variances, behavioral aspec ts of
control accounting. The budgeting concept, the administration of budgetary control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets, master
and subsidiary budgets, budget centers, management participation in budget preparation, involvement and motivation, The Budget period
and identification of the principal budget factor.
(2) Public Financial Management  : A paper of 3 hours duration. Selection of question will not be allowed.
Role of Government Accountant  : Constitutional and legal framework of public finance, Institutional framework, Central
Government, Government Corporation, Local Authorities, Co-operative Movement etc.
Parliamentary Control Functions of Treasury, Planning Ministry, Estaimates Committee, Auditor General, Public Account
Committee, Consolidated Fund, Problems of Parliamentary Control.
The Financial Cycle, Planning, Programming Budgeting, Funding Authorization, Accounting, Reporting, Evaluation and Audit.
Project appraisal, application of shadow prices and statistical data, determination of pay off metric and expected value, cost
benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal rate of return, ranking of project, economic financial and managerial aspects of projects
fourmulation and appraisal, effective project presentation.
Programming Techniques, applications of network - analysis assignment of resources, transportation, problem, replacement of
assets that degenerate with use or passage of time and those which do not but which fall after certain amount of use of time.
Performance budget installation of basic methods, measurement of performance, kind of measure, selecting unit and rooms,
systems of measurement and performance analysis.
Performance budget, programme structure, Classification by functions, programmes activities projects and objects of expenditure.
Financial controls Accountability, Internal control and Financial Regulation, Internal Audit, Ef ficiency Audit, Management
Audit.
Pricing in Public Enterprises.
Financial control of Government, commercial enterprises, budgeting management, reporting interpretation of account, the use
of financial ratios.
Design and content of accounts and reports of Government and Public undertakings.
Note :-A Candidate will be required to obtain minimum of 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
(3) Management and Organization :  A paper of 3 hours duration.
The questions in this subject will be designed to assess the candidate’s grasp of the principles of management and organization.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
13
Appendix "E"
Sinhala
The Test in Sinhala will consist of a Written and on oral part.
The written paper will be of two hours duration and will contain question on :
(i) Grammer,
(ii) Translation into English of petitions or reports from Headmen or Grama Seva Niladharis’ written in different running
hands.
(iii) Traslation into Sinhala from an Official paper of document in English.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(a) Dictation of Official material from English into Sinhala so that the passage can be understood and taken down or written
by a Sinhalese,
(ii) Reading of a petition in Sinhala,
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation.–  The purpose of the test will be assess the candidates’ power of understanding Sinhala
of different classes and of making himself understood both in common conversation and in the usual course of official
business.
A candidate is required to obtain 40% marks for each section of the written and oral subject for a pass.
Tamil
The Test in Tamil will consist of a Written and an Oral part.
The written paper which will be of two hours duration and will contain question on :
(b) Grammer
(ii) Translation into English of petitions or reports from Headmen or Grama Seva Niladharies written in different running
hands.
(iii) T ranslation into Tamil from an Official paper or document in English.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(c) Dictation of Official material from English into Tamil so that the passage can be understood and taken down or written by
a Tamil
(ii) Reading of a Tamil petition.
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation.–  The purpose of the test will be to assess the candidates’ power of understanding Tamil
of different classes and of making himself understood both in common conversation and in the usual course of official
business.
Note.-A candidate is required to obtain 40% marks for each section of written and oral subject for a pass.
English
A prototype of the question paper is furnished below for the information of candidates :-
Part A
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb given within brackets :-
During the last war our contry ……………… I (be) a British Colony ………………………… 2 (take) a full part in the war
effort. Consequently our tea, rubber and coconut …………… 3 (ship) to Britain at very favouarble prices and the foreign exchange W e
…………… (4) (earn) …………… 5 (accumulate) as assets. Again during the Korean war in the early fifties our products ……………
6 (fetch) good prices and we ……………7 (not have) any exchange problem. However, political independence …………… 8 (not given
rise) to any effort to …………… 9 (build up) our economy we …………… 10 (be) a nation of consumers goods which …………… 11

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
14
(Squander) our foreign exchange on consumer goods which ……………12 (can produce) locally and incidentally diversified our economy.
Over the last decade we …………… 13 (begin) to feel the pinch when our primary products ……………14 (fail) to command good
prices in the world market while our requirements of food both rice and subsidiary food stuffs …………… 15 (rise) in price.
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition (where necessary)
As Assistant Secretary …………… 16 charge …………… 17 subjects, it was my duty to convene groups of officers dealing
…………… 18 different aspects of development work in the Ministry ……………19 time to time. They discussed …………… 20
various problems that they confronted and which they could not cope …………… 21 on their own. We were thus able to share our
experience …………… 22each other and make concrete proposals …………… 23 the Secretary every month. He in turn put ……………
24 his own plans for discussion …………… 25 these meetings.
(b) Underline the correct letters given within brackets that would complete the spelling of the following words :
26. har …………… ment (rass/as/ass)
27. ember …………… (rass/as/ass)
28. tol …………… (arreance/erance/erence)
29. Par …………… arian (liament/limen/liment)
30. bal …………… ing (let/lat/lot)
31. itin …………… (erary/arary/erarie)
32. Pers …………… (everance/everence/ewerence)
33. bour …………… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy)
34. prolet …………… (ariet/ariat/eriyat)
35. com …………… ate (memorr/emor/memor)
(c) In each of the following statements underline the correct word within brackets :-
36. The inventory was checked by the Board of (Surveillance/Survey/Surveyors)
37. At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the accused officer has (contradicted/contravened/contaminated) the regulations.
38. Every receipt should have a (counterfoil/counterfeit/counterpane) for the purpose of audit.
39. There was a possibility that the prosecution had (fabricated/fumigated/promulgate) the evidence.
40. (Discrete/Discretionary/Discriminatory) power was given to the Head of the Department under the relevant Act.
41. The Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush until the bribe taker arrived.
42. The entire staff turned upon (facilitate/infitrate/felicitate) the watcher on his retirement.
43. In times of national crisis we must avoid (luxuriant/luxurious) habits.
44. Martial music was played over the radio during height of the battle to keep up the (moral/morale/morals) of the people.
45. Candidates are advised to use (Stationary/Stationery) sparingly owing to the acute paper shortage.
(e) Underline the correct phrase in the brackets that means the same as the word or phrase underlined in each sentence :-
46. In good management the boss should, support his staff in their work (back out/back up/back away).
47. The sales and replacement of stock amounted to over Rs. 5,000 (turn out/turn up/turn away)
48. We were warned at the start not to let out work get into arrears (set out/out set).
49. The younger son wasted his farther’s wealth in a few years (ran over/ran through)
50. I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred me from going (put away/put off)
Part B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the questions set out below :-
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, liberty, constitutional government, and respect for the law or at least
the definitions of them, began with the reflection of Greek thinkers upon the institutions of City State, But in the long history of political

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
15
thought the meaning of such terms has been variously modified and always that meaning has to be understood in the light of the
institutions by which the indicates were to be realized and of the society in which those institutions did their work. The Greek City States
was so different from the political communities in which modern men live that it requires no small effort of the imagination to picture its
social and political life. The Greek Philosophers were thinking of political practices far different from any that have prevailed commonly
in modern word, and the whole climate of opinion in which the work was done was different. Their problems though not without th eir
analogies in the preset, were never identical with modern problems and the ethical apparatus by which political life was evalua ted and
criticized varied widely from any that now prevails. In order to understand at all accurately what their theories meant it nece ssary first
to realize at least roughly what kind of Institutions they had in view and what citizenship connected as an effect and as an id eal, to the
public for whom they wrote. For this purpose the Government of Athens is especially important, partly because, it is the best k nown,
but chiefly because it was an object of special concern to the greatest of Greek Philosophers.
As compared with modern states the ancient City-State was exceedingly small both in area and in population. The numbers
were exceedingly uncertain but, a figure somewhat in excess of three hundred thousand would be approximately correct. Such an
agrrangement of a small territory denominated by a single City was typical off the City State.
In each of the following cases, choose the alternative which in your opinion supports the views expressed in the above passage.
Place a tick (right mark) against the correct answer:-
51. Athens is significant for the students of Greek political thought mainly because :-
(a) It was the most powerful of the Greek City- States :
(b) Its ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks themselves ;
(c) It had the most ideal form of Government ;
(d) it is the best known of the Greak City - States ;
52. Greek political thought was concerned with problems :-
(a) Entirely unrelated to,
(b) identical with,
(c) different from analogous but to,
53. The moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is :-
(a) very similar to modern  moral and religious ideas :-
(b) unknown ;
(c) very different from modern moral and religious ideas.
54. It is:-
(a) easy,
(b) not at all easy,
(c) impossible,
for a modern man to imagine what life was like in a Greek City-State.
55. In comparison with the ancient Greek City States are:-
(a) very large,
(b) very small,
(c) about the same size.
56. The population of an ancient Greek City States was:-
(a) much less than 300,000
(b) over 3 million,
(c)  just over 300,000

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
16
57. The City-State of Athens Comprises:-
(a) a small territory governed by a singly city,
(b) a large territory governed by a number of cities,
(c) a small territory with village councils,
(d) a large territory with a decentralised administration.
58.  At different times in the history of the world people:-
(a) have thought in basically the same way,
(b) have thought in different ways,
(c) have contradicted the views of people of the previous generation.
59. Details of political theory are derived from Greek Political thought:-
(a) because the Greek City States was very similar to modern states,
(b) in spite of Greek City State being very different from modern States,
(c) because modern political theorists are students of Greek Philiosophy.
60. The meaning of political ideal at the particular moment in European History since the time of the Greeks can be defined
only be:-
(a) relating it to its context,
(b) tracing it back to its original meaning among the Greeks,
(c) investigating the meaning of the Greek word for it,
(d) taking into account only those features in it which have persisted throughout its history.
61. Write sentences using each of the following words so as to bring out its meaning clearly:-
       Arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidates hypothetical, retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, review, empower.
Either
62. Write a letter to the Head of an Educational Institute in an English speaking country, setting out the following informatio n
in an orderly manner :-
(i) The equivalence of our examination certificate to the certificate specified in this letter cannot be determined as the
examining authorities in Sri Lanka have not been consulted by the institution concerned in that country:-
(ii) The G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Credit Pass has been officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in London G . C. E.
(Ordinary Level):-
(iii) The receipt of the letter sent to the Commissioner of Examinations is acknowledged:
(iv) Any further information in this matter may be obtained from the embassy of the Republic of Sri Lanka in that country.
63. Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of Standards marking out a case for the adoption of the 24 hour clock in this
country starting the advantages of such a measure.
Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Architecture’s Service and Sri Lanka Scientific Service
(1) Subject No. 04
Syllabus:-
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part 1 (Except Chapter X)
(b) The Estimates of the Current Year e. g. - Their Arrangement the Heads of Revenue; The Finance and Appropriation Acts;
Note:- A Candidate will be required to obtain 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
(2) Subject No. 05
Refer Subject No. 05 under the Sri Lanka Administrative Service EB1

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
17
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Official use only
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS  –   SRI  LANKA
Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service,
Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service, Sri Lanka Sciencetific Service, Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Police
Service and Sri Lanka Architecture’s Service – 2008
The language medium in which officer will sit the examination : Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3/English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Town in which the officer intends to sit the examination : Colombo -1/Jaffna -2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(To be forwarded through the Head of the Department to the Commissioner General of Examinations by registered Post).
(The envelope should bear the name of the examination on the top left-hand corner).
01. ( a) Last name with initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(b) Last name with initials :————.
(In English block letters) Ex: Sunil, A. B.
02. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card) :————.
(In English block letters)
03. Name of the Examination :————.
Note : vide 4B before completing this.
04. (i) The Service to which the officer belongs :————.
(ii) Date of appointment to that service : Date Month       Y ear
05. Subject offered (to be clearly stated) with the subject number as indicated in the first paragraph of the notification.
(i) Subject No.
(ii) Subject No.
(iii) Subject No.
(iv) Subject No.
(v) Subject No.
(vi) Subject No.
(vii) Subject No.
06. Date of Birth :
Date :————, Month :————, Year :————.
07. National Identity Card No.:

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
18
08. Designation  :————.
Name of Department  :————.
09. The service to which he belongs, if the officer is in Administrative Service, the date on which he was appointed to such
service :————.
10. If the Officer is not in the Administrative Service to which service he belongs  :————.
11. If the Officer is in the Administrative Service the examination for which he is applying :
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination (A)
(b) Second Efficiency Bar Examination (B)
(c) Second Language Examination (C)
12. If the Officer is not in the Administrative Service the examination for which he is applying :
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
13. State whether you have sat this examination previously in whole or in part :————.
If so state subject and give year and month :
Examination Subject Y ear Month
I, declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the language medium indicated at
Para. 4 above.
I, also declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before cancellation by me. Further to that,
candidates should be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the
examination.
14. Fees paid Rs :
Cage of Stamps
—————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :————.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Forwarded -
I certify that the above mentioned candidates Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………………, who is eligible to sit for the examination
in the requested medium as, indicated in the paragraph 04.
I attest the candidate’s signature.
—————,
Signature of Head of the Department and Designation.
Date :————.
01-59

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
19
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements, sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
Rs. cts.
One inch or less              ...                ...              ...             ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof                ...           ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette      ..              ...            ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ..                ...            ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I                ...                  ...                  ...                   ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III             ...                  ...                  ...                   ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together)  ...                ...                 ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II          ...            ...                 ...                  ...                   ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III         ...            ...                 ...                  ...                   ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) ... 890 00 2,400 00
Part V           ...            ...                 ...                  ...                   ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI          ...            ...                 ...                  ...                   ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette     ...                ...                 ...                  ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I      ...            ...                 ...                  ...                   ... 40 00 60 00
Section II     ...            ...                 ...                  ...                   ... 25 00 60 00
Section III    ...            ...                 ...                  ...                   ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together)      ...                ...                  ... 80 00 120 00
Part II               ...            ...                 ...                  ...                   ... 12 00 60 00
Part III             ...            ...                 ...                  ...                   ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V              ...            ...                 ...                  ...                    ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI             ...            ...                 ...                  ...                    ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2009
20
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
JANUARY 02.01.2009 Friday — 19.12.2008 Friday 12 noon
09.01.2009 Friday –– 26.12.2008 Friday 12 noon
16.01.2009 Friday –– 02.01.2009 Friday 12 noon
23.01.2009 Friday –– 09.01.2009 Friday 12 noon
30.01.2009 Friday –– 16.01.2009 Friday 12 noon
FEBRUARY 06.02.2009 Friday — 23.01.2009 Friday 12 noon
13.02.2009 Friday –– 30.01.2009 Friday 12 noon
20.02.2009 Friday –– 06.02.2009 Friday 12 noon
27.02.2009 Friday –– 13.02.2009 Friday 12 noon
MARCH 02.03.2009 Friday — 20.02.2009 Friday 12 noon
09.03.2009 Friday –– 27.02.2009 Friday 12 noon
16.03.2009 Friday –– 02.03.2009 Friday 12 noon
23.03.2009 Friday –– 09.03.2009 Friday 12 noon
30.03.2009 Friday –– 16.03.2009 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.