

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of November 24, 2023
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 24.11.2023)
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
A
MALAIYAGHA STUDENT HIGHER EDUCATION
FUND (INCORPORATION)
To be Presented in Parliament by Hon. Velu Kumar, M. P.
for Mahanuwara District
to  incorporate  the  Malaiyagha Student Higher Education Fund
(Private Members’ Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Malaiyagha Student Higher Education Fund
(Incorporation)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MALAIYAGHA STUDENT
HIGHER EDUCATION FUND
WHEREAS a found ation called and known as the
“Malaiyagha Student Higher Education Fund ” heretofore
been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all subjects and matters  connected with
the said found ation according to the rules agreed by its
members:
AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the objects and matters
for which it was formed and has applied to  incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant the application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Malaiyagha Student
Higher Education Fund (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2023.
2. From and after commencement of this Act, such and so
many persons as are members of the Corporation “Malaiyagha
Student Higher Education Fund” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Fund”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession under the name and style of ‘‘Malaiyagha
Student Higher Education Fund’’ (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued and
have full power and authority to have and use a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Fund is constituted
are hereby declared to be:—
(a) To provide finacial assistance to the students who
are selected for university and who continue their
Preamble
Short title
Incorporation
of the
Malaiyagha
Student
Higher
Education
Fund
General
objects of the
Corporation
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Malaiyagha Student Higher Education Fund
(Incorporation)
learning activities by paying attention to their
economic requirements and providing necessary
funds;
(b) to promote higher education among malaiyagha
students by designing and implementing
programmes to strengthen their interest in pursuing
higher education;
(c) Implementation of awareness programs for the
malaiyagha students on the importance of higher
education and increase higher education
enrollments;
(d) to create awareness among the malaiyagha students
in persuaing technical and vocational education,
eliminate ambiguity and to provide financial
assistance to the students who are pursuing the
courses ; and
(e) to provide financial assistance to the malaiyagha
studensts to pursue hinger edcucation other than
universities.
4.  (1) The of the affairs of the Corporation shall, subject
to the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for
the time being of the corporation be administered by a
Committee of Management consisting of Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer and members not more than eleven,
elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management holding
officer on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
Management
of the affairs
of the
corporation

<!-- page 4 -->

3Malaiyagha Student Higher Education Fund
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security, and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the corporation.
6. (1) It shall be  lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by majority
of not less than two thirds of the members present to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, on all or any of the following matters:-
(a) The classification of members and the admission,
withdrawal, expulsion of members;
(b) The election of office bearers, the resignation from,
vacation of or removal from office bearers and their
powers, conduct and duties;
(c) The election of the members of the Committee of
the Management and its powers, conduct and duties
and term of the members;
(d) The powers, conduct, duties and function of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(e) The procedure to be observed at and the
summoning and holding of meetings of the
Committee of Management or sub Committee and
General
Powers of the
Corporation
Rules of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Malaiyagha Student Higher Education Fund
(Incorporation)
of the time, places, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum thereof and the conduct of
business thereof;
(f) The administrations and management of the
property of the Corporation, the custody of its funds
and the property of the Corporation, the custody of
its funds and the maintenance and audit of its
accounts; and
(g)  the the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or  replaced at a like  manner as a rule may
be made under subsection (1).
(3) Every members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundatin  on the
date of commencement of this Act, shall be paid and discharg
by the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due to,
subscriptions and contributions payable to the foundation
on that date shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
money heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of  gifts,
bequest, testamentary dispositions, donations,  subscription,
contribution fees or grants for and on account of the
corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporaction
in one or more banks as the Corporation of management
shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of  money
required to defray and expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
power, duties and funcatin under this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Funds of the
Corporation
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation

<!-- page 6 -->

5Malaiyagha Student Higher Education Fund
(Incorporation)
9.    The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary, disposition or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act and subject to the rules in for the time
being of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsover, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is or are by its their rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among their members.
11. (1) The financial year of the corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be Audited at
least once Annually by the Auditor - General or qualified
auditor  appointed by the Auditor - General in terms of 154
of the constitution.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) An individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute; or
5
10
15
20
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
Audit and
accounts
Property
remaining on
dissolution of
Corporation25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Malaiyagha Student Higher Education Fund
(Incorporation)
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Council of such Institute.
12.    The seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever expect in the presence of two
membrers of the Committee of Management, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice, or
affect the rights of the Republic or anybody politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
Seal of the
Corporation
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 8 -->

7Malaiyagha Student Higher Education Fund
(Incorporation)
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING