

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
283
283
¡â¤ 1 ,492 _ 2007  ¡ïÀòà¨à 05 Éæ¾ł ´ò˝ÌàÀ”ł¾à…å _ 2007 .04.05
No. 1,492 – THURSDAY ,  APRIL 05, 2007
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... –
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 285
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th April, 2007 should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 30th March, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B.– Part II of the Gazette No. 1491 of 30.03.2007 was not Published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
284
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
285
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Teachers to follow Teacher Training Courses
in Teachers’ Colleges — 2007
APPLICATIONS are entertained from untrained teachers (who have
got formal appointments signed by Secretary, Education Service
Commission or Secretary, Provincial Public Service Commission)
serving in Government Schools, are eligible to follow the Two Years
Teacher Training Course in Government Teachers’ Colleges. Teachers
who have their formal appointments in Government approved private
schools and in approved Pirivenas are also eligible to apply for this
course. In the case of Private Schools they must be registered  under
Director  of Private Schools in Ministry of  Education.
Those who could not complete the Distance Training Programme
and PRINSETT Programme conducted by the NIE also can apply
for this Training.  This they have to forward a letter at the interview
signed by the Distance Training Authority of NIE, to prove same.
Selection will be made according to the number of vacancies
existing in the Teachers’ Colleges and also on the basis of applicant’s
seniority in assuming duties in the school.  All  untrained teachers
should  apply for this training.  If the number of applicants in the
Sinhala medium is found to be too small, all the courses may be
considered to conduct  in a Teachers’ College.
Duration of this Course will be two years and the teacher trainees
are required to undergo full time residential institutional training. If
there is no residential facility or no adequate accommodation, teacher
trainees can be provided with accommodation closer to the Institution.
They should get the Principals approval. During the period of training
in the Teachers’ College they should not follow any other course or
appear for any external examination.
02. Admission :
(i) These courses are not applicable to the under-mentioned
categories of teachers :
(a) Teachers who have already undergone or are undergoing
training in any Teachers’ College.
(b) Those who have been appointed as Graduate Teachers,
or Graduate Trainee Teachers or Graduate Management
Assistants or any other Graduate appointment.
(c) Teachers who have not fulfilled the qualifications indicated
in number 7 of this Notification.
When it is detected that an ineligible candidate has gained admission,
action will be taken to cancel his/her training at any stage or to
invalidate his/her Training Certificate if detected after completion of
training.
(ii)Every candidate is required to produce the under mentioned
documents when they are called for registration to follow
the course of training.
(a) Duly completed Bond,
(b) A copy of the Agreement entered into with the
Government or with the Management concerned., as
the case may be, to serve continuously for a period of
5 years on completion of training (Government
teachers in Government schools and Non-Government
teachers under the Management concerned).
(iii) It should be noted that teachers appointed under District
Service Scheme after April 1982, will continue to serve in
the same District even after completion of their training.
(iv) After admission to a Teachers' College for a teacher training
course a trainee will not be allowed to leave the course at his/
her discretion.
03. (i) Trainees whose general conduct found to be inconsistent
with college discipline and diligence in studies is not up
to the standard expected by the Principal of the Teachers’
College are liable to be discontinued from pursuing their
training and will be sent back to their schools. Any trainee
who does not have 90% attendance and participation in
curricular activities will not be eligible to sit the teachers’
College Final Examination. However, the Secretary,
Education reserves the right to make final decision related
to this matter.
(ii)Leave.—Two years full-pay study leave will be granted
for institutional training. All trainees are required to
devote this two year period entirely for their training
However, under special circumstances a trainee could be
granted a limited number of casual leave only if the
Principal is satisfied with the necessity. It is necessary
that prior approval of the  Principal should be obtained
for same. Leave obtained in this manner should not exceed
Ten days per year.
A trainee whose progress in studies is found to be unsatisfactory
owing to obtaining of excessive leave is liable to be discontinued
from training and to be sent back to school. Any medical leave taken
should be supported by a Medical Certificate obtained from a
Government Medical Officer.
In instances where the state of a teacher’s pregnancy is proven to
be impeding her training activities, Secretary, Education reserves the
right to take a decision relating to the continuation of her training.
04. Trainees who pass the First Year Examination and the Final
Examination (with successful completion of the two year teacher
training Course) conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations will be awarded the Trained Teachers’ Certificate.
05. Salary Scale.—After satisfactory completion of the training
course (requirements) and from the effective date of the Trained
Teachers’ Certificate they will be placed on the Salary Scale of

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
286
Rs. (13,790 x 12) - 9 x 150 - 6 x 210 - 5 x 300 8x 350 - 12 x 645 -
Rs. (28,440 x 12). (Class 3 Grade I in Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service)
06. (i) Every candidate will be trained in the subject indicated in
the appointment letter.  However teachers who have
obtained appointments for other subjects can apply only
for the  special education course. the teachers who have
been appointed as government teachers and whose subject
is not mentioned in the appointment letter, could apply
for training, in one of the subjects they have passed the
G. C. E. (A/L) exam. The candidates are expected to
submit a letter approved by the head of the institution at
the interview to say that they are  teaching the relevant
subject. Those whose  subject not indicated in the
appointment letter, will be considered as primary
teachers.
(ii)When the subject is not indicated in the letters of
appointments of Private and Pirivena teachers, they will
be selected for training according to the subject taught by
them. Submission of a copy of Time Table approved and
signed by the Head of the Institution is essential.
Course No. Name of the Course
01 Sinhala
02 Primary Education
03 Sociology
04 Science
05 Mathematics
06 Agriculture
07 Home Science
08 English
09 Buddhism
10 Christianity/Roman Catholic
11 Hinduism
12 Islam
13 Art
14 Music
15 Dancing
16 Arabic
17 Special Education (Sinhala Medium)
(a) Teaching Methods for hearing impaired Children
(Deaf)
(b) Teaching Methods for visually Handicapped
(Blind) Children
(c) Teaching Methods for Mentally retarded Children
18 Handicrafts and Technology
19 Commerce
20 Tamil
21 Physical Education
22 Second Language (Sinhala/Tamil)
07. (1) Eligibility.—Every candidate should have fulfilled the
following conditions :
(i) Should possess a good character,
(ii)Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(iii)Should have passed six subjects including Mathematics and
First Language at the G.C.E.(O/L) or N.C.G.E. Examination
in not more than 2 sittings,
(iv) Should have three months service as a teacher by 05.05.2007
(this is applicable to teachers who are working in the
government schools).
(v) All candidates should prove their type of   appointment by
producing their original Letter of Appointment.
(II) Candidates who select the under mentioned courses should
possess the qualifications mentioned below in addition to the above
qualifications.
(a) Sinhala Course :
Should have obtained a Credit pass for Sinhala at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination.
(b) Science Course :
(i) Should have obtained at least two credit passes at the
Senior School Certificate Examination or G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination for Physics, Botany, Biology,
Zoology, Chemistry, Mathematics (Biology will not
be considered along with Botany and Zoology)
or
(ii)Should have passed in Science and Mathematics with
a Credit Pass for Science, in the New Syllabus
or
(iii)Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
(c) Mathematics Course :
(i) Should have obtained at least two credit passes in
Physics, Applied Mathematics, Advanced
Mathematics, Elementary Mathematics, Pure
Mathematics, Mathematics, Science  at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or the Senior School
Certificate Examination ;
or
(ii)Should have obtained passes at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination in Mathematics and Science with credit
pass for Mathematics, in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii)Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
(d) Agriculture Course :
(i) Should have obtained a credit pass in one of the
following subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
(Old Syllabus) or at the Senior School Certificate
Examination Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany,
Zoology ;
or

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
287
(ii) Should have obtained passes in Science and Agriculture
with a Credit Pass for Agriculture, in the New
Syllabus, at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination ;
or
(iii)Should have obtained a pass in one of the following
subjects Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany and Zoology
at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination ;
or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in one of the
above subjects. If it is at the N.C.G.E. Examination a
letter from the Principal certifying the pre-vocational
subject of the candidate is required ;
or
(v) Should have obtained a training of not less than six
months in a Government Farm related to Agriculture.
(e) Home Science Course :
(i) Should have obtained a credit pass in Home Science
or Needle work at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination or at the
Senior Certificate Examination ;
or
(ii)Should have obtained a pass in Home Science at the
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination ;
or
(iii)Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in the above
subjects. If it is at the N.C.G.E. Examination a letter
from the Principal certifying the pre-vocational
subject of the candidate is required ;
or
(iv)Should have obtained a Certificate after studying
Home Science at a Government Technical College for
a period of not less than one year.
(f) English Course :
(i) Should have an appointment as an English Teacher ;
or
(ii)Should be a teacher in service with 1st, 2nd or 3rd
Class English Teachers’ Certificate ;
and
(iii)Should have obtained a credit Pass for English
Language or English Literature at the G.C.E. (O/L)/
London (O/L) Examination or at the Senior Certificate
Examination
or
(iv) Should have passed English as a subject at a Higher
Examination.
(g) Religion Course :
(i) Candidates applying for a Course in Buddhism,
Christianity (RC), Hinduism, Islam, Should have
obtained a credit pass for the relevant religion at the
G.C.E. (O/L) or Senior School Certificate
Examination ;
or
(ii)Should have obtained ‘A ’ or ‘B’ pass for Religion at
the N.C.G.E. Examination ;
or
(iii)Should have obtained a pass in the subject indicated
in (i) above or in a relevant subject at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination.
(h) Art Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Certificate from the
Government College of Fine Arts (Three Years Course
in Art) ;
or
(ii)Should have obtained the Teachers’ Certificate in Art
(Sinhala/Tamil/English) ;
or
(iii)Should have obtained a credit pass at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination or at the Senior School Certificate
Examination ;
or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Art at the
N.C.G.E. Examination (A letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required)  ;
or
(v) Should have obtained a pass in Art at G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination.
(i) Music Course :
(i) Should have obtained the Final/Intermediate
Certificate in Music of the Sri Lanka Gandharwa Sabha
or the First Part in Peradiga Sangeetha Examination
or Jathika Sangeetha Examination ;
or
(ii)Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate of
the Government College of Fine Arts ;
or
(iii)Shoud have obtained the Certificate in Music
(Grade V) of the Northern Ceylon Oriental Music
Teachers’ Association ;
or
(vi) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate in
Music from any recognized Indian Institution of
Music ;
or
(v) Should have obtained a Credit pass Music at the
G.C.E. (O/L) or Senior School Certificate
Examination ;
or
(vi) Should have obtained a pass in Music at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination ;
or
(vii)Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Music at the
N.C.G.E. Examination (A letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required).
(j) Dancing Course :
(i) Should have obtained the Final / Intermediate
Certificate in Dancing of the Lanka Gandharva Sabha
or the First Part in Peradiga Netun Examination or
Jathika Netun Examination ;
or

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
288
(ii)Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate of
the Government College of Dancing ;
or
(iii)Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate in
Dancing from any recognized Indian Institute of
Dancing ;
or
(iv) Should have obtained a Credit pass for Dancing at the
G.C.E. (O/L) or Senior School Certificate
Examination ;
or
(v) Should have obtained pass in Dancing at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination ;
or
(vi) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in dancing at
the N.C.G.E. Examination (A letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required.).
(k) Arabic Course :
(i) Should have obtained a pass in Stage I and II of the
Al-Alim Preliminary Examination held by the
Department of Examinations or should have obtained
a pass in Arabic at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination ;
or
(ii)Should have obtained a pass in the Final Examination
of a recognised Madrasa Institute. The recognized
Madrasa Institutes are given below :
(1) Bahijathul Ibrahimiya Arabic College, Fort,
Galle.
(2) Gafuriya Arabic College, Maharagama.
(3) Madrathul Bari Arabic College, Weligama.
(4) Kasimiya Arabic College, Puttalam.
(5) Nadwatul Ulema Arabic College, Muttur.
(6) Eastern Lanka Arabic College, Addalachchenai.
(7) Madrasathulfula Arabic College, Kathankudi.
(8) Muslim Ladies Arabic College, Kal Eliya.
(9) Madrasathul Jeffriya Arabic College, Galle.
(10) Hiydadiya Arabic College, Madampe.
(11) Nadwathul Buhari Arabic College, Kinniya.
(12) Madrasathul Nooraniya Arabic College,
Kotuwegoda, Matara.
(13) Makkiya Arabic College, Galle ; or
(14) Any other approved Institute (Proof of
recognition of the Institute should be forwarded
at the interview).
(iii)The Teachers of all other appointment with the
qualification of the above (i) or (ii) can be applied for
this course.
(l) Special Education Course (Sinhala Medium) — There are
   3 divisions :
(i) Teaching children who are visually handicapped
(Blind) ;
(ii) Teaching children who are in the category of hearing
impaired  (Deaf) ;
(iii) Teaching children who are mentally retarded.
Candidates should indicate the division preferred in their
application. special consideration will be given to those having English
knowledge in selecting suitable Canditates.
(m ) Handicrafts and Technical Skills Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit pass at the G.C.E.
(O/L) or Senior School Examination in one of the
following handicraft subjects :
* Wood Work,
* Metal Work,
* Weaving,
* Pottery,
* Motor Mechanism,
* Radio Technology,
* Masonry ;
or
(ii)Should have obtained ‘A ’ or ‘B’ pass in the relevant
subject at the N.C.G.E. Examination (A letter from
the Principal certifying the pre-vocational subject of
the candidate is required) ;
or
(iii)Should have a Certificate in proof of successful
completion of a course of not less than one year
duration at a Government Technical College or under
a Government Department.
(n) Commerce Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass for two subjects
among Economics, Commerce, Accountancy, Typing,
Short hand, Commerce and Finance, at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination or Senior School Certificate
Examination ;
or
(ii)Should have obtained pass in two subjects indicated
above at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination ;
or
(iii)Should have obtained Certificate from a Government
Technical College for one year Commerce Course.
(o) Tamil Language Course :
Should have obtained a Credit pass for Tamil language
at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
(p) Physical Education Course :
Should   have   obtained   a   teaching   appointment   in
Physical Education.
(q) Socialogy Course :
Should have obtained a Credit pass Social Studies  at
the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
or

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
289
Should have obtained a ‘A’ or ‘B’ Grade in Social
Studies at the N.C.G.E.   Examination.
or
Should have obtained a simple Pass in two subjects
among Geography, Economics, Political Science and
History at the  G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
(f) Second Languge :
Teachers who have obtained apointments for Second
Language Sinhala/Tamil subjects having qualifications
indicated as in  para. 7 (1) above can apply for same.
(08) A limited number of Teachers from approved Director
Managed School or on the permanent staff of Approved Private
Schools, having a minimum of 20 hours of teaching during a week,
will be selected for training. The following categories of schools are
recognized for this purpose :
(i) Assisted Schools which become Private fee - levying Schools
in 1951 ;
(ii)Schools which become Private Non - Fee levying Schools on
01.12.1960 ;
(iii)Private Schools and Pirivenas approved by the Ministry of
Education (Not by the Divisional / Provincial Directors of
Education).
All candidates who are Teachers in Private Schools approved by
the Ministry of Education should have a minimum of one year
continuous service on 30.04.2007. They should produce a letter
from the Provincial / Zonal Director of Education certifying their
date of first appointment and that the teacher belongs to the approved
staff of the school. at the interview.
Pirivena Teachers should have minimum service of two (02) years
as on 30.04.2007. For this approved service will be recognised under
the Pirivena Act, of 1959 or Pirivena Act, No. 64 of 1979.
At present, Pirivena Teachers can apply only for the courses in
Sinhala, Science, Mathematics, English and Buddhism. (They should
obtain training in the subject for which they were appointed).
In addition, Teachers who are applying from Vidyayathana
Pirivens can be applied for Music, Art, Dancing, Commerce, Physical
Education and Agriculture.
Private School and Pirivena Teachers should submit a declaration
by the Managers at the interview with regards to the following :
(i) That the Teacher could be released from service for the
period of training,
(ii)That the Teacher’s salary will be paid during the period of
training,
(iii)That the Teacher could be re-employed by the Management
after completion of their training,
(iv) That no request will be made for replacement of the teachers
selected for the training and that their duties will be
distributed among the other members of the staff.
Teachers selected from Private Schools and Pirivenas, should
sign an Agreement before their registration to the effect that “No
requests will be made by them for employment in Government
Schools, after completion of their training”.
Teachers from Private Schools should submit the originals of
their letters of appointment with the endosement of the
Provincial Director of Education. In the case of teachers who obtained
their appointment before the age of 18 years, their date of appointment
will be made effective from 18th birthday. The letter of appointment
should be certified by the Provincial Director of Education concerned,
if it has been signed by any other officer.
(09) Application for Selection :
(i) Application shold be prepared in accordance with the
Specimen given in this Gazette Notification :
(a) Application should be made in the medium in which
the candidate wishes to follow the course.
(b) Application Form should be prepared on a sheet of
paper of 8" x 12" size use both sides.
(c) No alteration or deletion of any cage should be done.
Care should be taken to keep adequate space between
the cages and to avoid any over - crowding.
(ii) Candidate should fill in the application properly. In-complete
applications will be rejected. Special attention of the
candidates is drawn to the following :
(a) Every candidate must give his / her name as registered
in the Department.
(b) Application should be forwarded through the Head
of the School ; if the candidate is a Head of a School
he / she should forward the application through the
Director of Education in charge of the Division / Zone.
(c) In forwarding application they should be addressed
as follows :
Application of untrained teachers (including English)
from Jaffna District to : Principal, Teachers’ College,
Kopay.
Application of untrained teachers (excluding English)
Tamil medium from Batticaloa, Trincomalee and
Ampara Districts to : Principal, Teachers’ College,
Batticaloa.
Application of untrained teachers (excluding English)
Tamil medium from Mannar, Kilinochchi, V avuniya
and Mullativu Districts to : President, National
College of Education, Vavuniya.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
290
(d) All Tamil Medium and Sinhala Medium Applications
(Including English) and all applications of English
Course except Jaffna of the other Districts should be
addressed to Chief Commissioner, Teacher Education
Branch ‘Ministry of Education’ Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(e) All applications should be forwarded under registered
cover to the relevant address to reach on or before
05.05.2007.
The word “Selection for Teacher   Training - 2007.
Name of Course :................................. Medium :
........................... District : ..........................” should
be written on the left hand corner of the envelop
enclosing the application.
(f) Late applications will be rejected and
(i) Application will not be acknowledged,
(ii) No other documents should be attached to the
application,
(iii)Should be prepared to submit originals and
Certified Photo Copies of all Certificates and other
documents at the interview.
A
RIYARATNE  HEWAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
19th March, 2007,
Ministry Education,
“Isurupaya”,
Battaramulla.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
(Please use both sides of a sheet of paper of the size of 8" x 12")
M
INISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
sELECTION  OF  TEACHERS  TO  FOLLOW  TEACHER  TRAINING  COURSE  IN
TEACHERS ’ COLLEGE  — 2007
01. Medium :
02. Date of assumption duties according to the
Letter of appointment :
03. Name of Course :
04. Category of First Appointment
(State the Subject) :
05. If you are a teacher registered for Distance Teacher Education
Course :
(i) Course :————,
(ii) Year :————,
(iii)Final Results :————,
06. Full name (Surname First) :————,
07. Name with initials : Rev/Mr/Mrs/Miss :————,
08. Sex :————,
09. Official Address :————,
10. Category of the School Serving :
(Whether Govt./Estate / Private / Pirivenas)
11. Private Addres :————,
(Private Telephone Number / Contact
Telephone Number)
12.  (i) Date of Birth :————.
(ii) Age as on 30.04.2007 :
  Years :————, Months :————, Days :————,
13. The School serving belongs to :
 (i) District :
(ii) Zonal Education Office :
14. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Results of G.C.E. (O/L) / N.C.G.E. Examination :
  Index No. :————,
 Year :————,
Grade Obtained
Subjects Passed First Time          Second Time
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
291
(ii) Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination :
  
  Index No. :————,
 Year :————,
Grade Obtained
Subjects Passed First Time          Second Time
(iii) Please give details if there are any relevant
    qualifications :
Institute Subject     Duration     Certificate
  15. Service Particulars :
School Served Period of Service Whether difficult or Not
I certify that the above information is true and correct. In the
event of any information herein being found to be false, I agree to
abide by the decision taken by the Secretary, Education. I am aware
of the fact that the decision to select me or not will depend on the
number of teachers and students in the school and service
requirements.
————,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :————,
The section below should be filled in by the Principal of the
school in the case of a teacher and by the Director in charge of the
Zone concerned in the case of a Principal :
(i) The number of teachers in the staff at present :————.
(ii)Number of students :————.
(iii)Whether the existing staff in the school will be sufficient for
the number of students, if the teacher is released for teacher
training :————.
I certify that the above candidate is a teacher/Principal serving in
my school/Zone. as per his/her first appointment he/she has assumed
duties on ................................. and is serving in this school from
................................... up to date. I have examined the particulars
given in this application and certify them as correct.
————,
Principal/Zonal Director of Education,
(Official Frank)
Date :————.
04-54

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
292
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to
the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied
by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of
the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject
to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in schedule
of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 3 1 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2007
293
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2007
APRIL 05.04.2007 Thursday — 23.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
12.04.2007 Thursday –– 30.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
20.04.2007 Friday –– 05.04.2007 Thursday 12 noon
27.04.2007 Friday –– 12.04.2007 Thursday 12 noon
MAY 04.05.2007 Friday — 20.04.2007 Friday 12 noon
11.05.2007 Friday –– 27.04.2007 Friday 12 noon
18.05.2007 Friday –– 04.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
25.05.2007 Friday –– 11.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
JUNE 01.06.2007 Friday — 18.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
08.06.2007 Friday –– 25.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
15.06.2007 Friday –– 01.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
22.06.2007 Friday –– 08.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
29.06.2007 Friday –– 15.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.