

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH
CENTRE (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 2 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 22nd January, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 8.25 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 26, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

1Mental Development and Research Centre
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007
[Certified on 22nd January 2007]
L.D.—O. (INC) 26/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MENTAL  DEVELOPMENT  AND
R ESEARCH  CENTRE
WHEREAS an association called and known as the “Mental
Development and Research Centre” has heretofore been
formed for the purpose of effectively carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
association, according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed, and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Mental Development
and Research Centre (Incorporation) Act, No.  2  of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this  Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Mental
Development and Research Centre (hereinafter referred to as
“the Centre”) and shall hereafter be admitted members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of “Mental
Development and Research Centre” ( hereinafter referred to
as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued
in all courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at it pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to propagate mental training, developmental and
research activities in Sri Lanka and other foreign
countries and to train those who are willing to
undergo training in ‘Samatha Vidarshana’
meditational system ;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Mental
Development
and Research
Center.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Mental Development and Research Centre
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007
(b) to provide necessary facilities for training in ethics
and exercising and developing of mental discipline
and  mental development etc. in Sri Lanka and
abroad ;
(c) to provide necessary doctrinaire advice for resolving
mental crises, problems and any other similar issues
faced by the general public, ;
(d) to encourage  persons in various educational
institutions such as the universities, colleges of
education, pirivenas and schools in Sri Lanka as
well as abroad,  interested in mental training,
developmental and research activities ; in promoting
these activities and providing necessary requisites
and library facilities for such research activities ;
(e) to assist in the complete physical and mental
development of the young, youthful and aged
persons and to implement necessary programmes
for blind, mute and deaf children who require special
educational facilities.
(f) to educate people who are addicted to liquor, drugs,
and various vices and anti-social activities, with a
view to salvaging them from these addictions and
developing their knowledge and skills and advising
them on health habits ;
(g) to take care of the aged parents under the protection
of their children who are in employment and to
engage them in mental training activities ; and
(h) to organize  vocational training activities suitable
for school leavers.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other written
law, the Corporation shall have the power to —
(a) to solicit and receive or collect subscriptions, grants
and donations ;
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Mental Development and Research Centre
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007
(b) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, and otherwise,
obtain lands or buildings which may be required for
the purposes of the Corporation ;
(c) to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise funds with or without security ;
(b) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Committee of Management may think fit ;
(e) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons ;
(f) to charge fees for the re-enrollment of persons who
had been members of the Corporation ;
(g) to employ, dismiss or terminate the service of officers
and servants of the Corporation and to pay them
such salaries, allowances and gratuity as may be
determined by the  Corporation ;
(h) to seek aid, assistance and co-operation from any
governmental and non-governmental organization,
local as well as international, for achieving the
objects of the Corporation ; and
(i) to do, perform and execute all such acts, matters and
things as are necessary, incidental or conducive to
the carrying out or the attainment for the objects of
the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Committee of
Management consisting of members elected in accordance
with the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the “Committee of
Management”)
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Mental Development and Research Centre
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007
(2) The first Committee of Management of the
Corporation shall consist of the Members of the Committee
of Management of the Centre, holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of the commencement of
this Act,
6. The Corporation shall make arrangements to maintain
a list of all persons holding membership in the Centre on the
day immediately preceding the date of the commencement
of this Act and enrolled as members of the Corporation after
this Act comes into effect.
7. It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by majority of not leass than
two thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or other written
laws of the following matters :—
(a) classification of membership and the admission,
resignation or expulsion of members and
determination of membership fees ;
(b) election of the office-bearers the resignation from,
or vacation of or removal from office of the office
bearers and their powers,  duties  and functions ;
(c) the powers, duties and functions of the various
officers and servants of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Committee of
Management, the times, places, notices and agenda
of such meethings, the quorum therefore and the
conduct of business thereat ;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership in the Corporation and the Committee
of Management ;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation ; and
List of members.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Mental Development and Research Centre
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
corporation and the accomploshment of its objects.
(2) Any rules made by Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule may be
made under subsection (1).
(3) The member's of the Corporation shall be subjected to
the rules of the Corporation.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold, any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of purchases, grants, gifts,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation and shall  thave full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fee or grant for and on account of
the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the
Corporation in one or more banks as the Committee of
Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
requite to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation
in the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions under this Act.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on the
day preceding the date of the commencement of this Act, shall
be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Center on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Centre.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Mental Development and Research Centre
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assests, and liabilities
and all other transactions of the corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilites, any
property, whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or,
transferred to some other society or societies handing objects
similar to those of the Corporation and which is or are by the
rules thereof prohibited from distributing any income or profit
among its or their members. such society or societies shall be
determined by the members of the Corporation at or
immediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.
13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the Secretary
or any member of the Corporation authorized to do so who
shall place their names to the instruments in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Mental Development and Research Centre
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2007
14. No member of the Corporation shall be subjected to
pay any membership fees in excess of the amount of
subscription due to the Corporation, on account of repayment
of loans and debts of the Corporation or for any other purpose.
15.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the right of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate
or of any other persons.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text of this Act shall
prevail.
Limit on
liabilities of the
Members.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICA TIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.