

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2389$23 - 2024 cqks ui 20 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2024.06.20
No. 2389/23  -  thursday,   juNe  20,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6753 - 284 (06/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
uNIvERSITIES  ACT,  No. 16  Of  1978
Order under Section  27(1)(b) read with Section 25A
By virtue of the powers vested in me by section 27(1)(b) read with section 25a of the universities act, No. 16 of 1978, 
1, dr. a. d. susil Premajayantha, the Minister of education having obtained a report under section 70C of the aforesaid 
act, in respect of  sri Lanka International Buddhist academy (sIBa), a company duly incorporated in sri Lanka under 
the Companies act. No. 7 of 2007 and bearing registration Number Ga 2232, and located at Pallekele, Kundasale being 
recognized as a degree awarding Institute, do by this Order, amend the Order made under the aforesaid act and published 
in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1948/11 of january 06, 2016, by the repeal of the contents under the heading schedule and the 
substitution there for of the following:
sCheduLe I
Conditions
	 1.	 Sri	Lanka	International	Buddhist	Academy	(SIBA)	shall,	when	admitting	students	for	the	degree	program	specified	
in schedule II hereto in respect of
	 1.1	 Bachelor	of	 Arts	with	minimum	of	90	credits	(SLQF	5)	adhere	to	the	minimum	entry	qualification	of	

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.06.2024
2a
 (a) at least three (3) simple Passes (s) in any stream in one and the same sitting at the G.C.e. (advanced 
Level) examination conducted by the department of examinations of sri Lanka or an equivalent 
qualification.
	 (b)	 Provided	however,	in	addition	to	the	above	mentioned	minimum	entry	qualifications,	a	student	may	
be admitted to the fourth semester of the degree of Bachelor of arts if such student has successfully 
completed-
 I. higher National diploma in Information technology or higher National diploma in Management 
higher National diploma in english or higher National diploma in Business administration 
offered by sri Lanka Institute of advance technological education (sLIate); and
	 II.	 All	modules	as	required	to	fill	any	gap	to	gain	the	approved	credits,	prior	to	the	fourth	semester	of	
the	relevant	Degree	Programme	as	Specified	by	the	Specified	Authority.
 1.2. Bachelor of arts honours in Pali with Minimum of 120 credits (sLQF 6) adhere to the minimum entry 
qualification	of	at	least	three	(3)	Simple	Pass	(S)	in	any	Stream		including	Pali	as	one	of	the	three	subjects	
in one and the same sitting at the G.C.e (advanced Level) examination conducted by the department of 
Examination	of	Sri	Lanka	or	an	equivalent	qualification.
 1.3. Bachelor of science in Information technology with minimum of 90 credits (sLQF 5) adhere to the minimum 
entry	qualification	of,
 (a) at least three (3) simple Passes (s) in Physical science stream or engineering technology stream in 
one and the same sitting at the G.C.e. (advanced Level) examination conducted by the department of 
Examinations	of	Sri	Lanka	or	an	equivalent	qualification	;	or.
 (b) at least three (3) simple Passes (s) in any stream in one and the same sitting at the G.C.e. (advanced 
Level) examination conducted by the department of examinations of sri Lanka or equivalent 
qualification	with	a	Simple	Pass	(S)	for	Information	&	Communication	Technology,	in	any	attempt	
at the G.C.e. (advanced Level) examination conducted by the department of examinations of sri 
Lanka	or	equivalent	qualification	and	a	Credit	pass	(C)	in	Mathematics	at	the	G.C.E.	(Ordinary	Level)	
Examination	conducted	by	the	Department	of	Examination	of	Sri	Lanka	or	equivalent	qualification;	or
 (c) at least three (3) simple Passes (s) in any stream in one and the same sitting at the G.C.e. (advanced 
Level) examination conducted by the department of examinations of sri Lanka and a Credit Pass 
(“C”) in Mathematics at the G.C.e. (Ordinary Level) examination conducted by the department of 
Examinations	of	Sri	Lanka	or	equivalent	qualification.
	 (d)	 Provided	however,	in	addition	to	the	above	mentioned	minimum	entry	qualifications,	a	student	may	be	
admitted to the fourth semester of the degree of Bachelor of science in Information technology if such 
student has successfuly completed -
 I. higher National diploma in Information technology by sri Lanka Institute of advance 
technological education (sLIate); and
	 II.	 All	modules	as	required	to	fill	any	gap	to	gain	the	approved	credits,	prior	to	the	fourth	semester	of	
the	relevant	Degree	Programme	as	provided	by	the	Specified	Authority.
	 2.	 Sri	Lanka	International	Buddhist	Academy	(SIBA)	is	recognized	to	offer	the	degree	specified	in	Schedule	II	hereto	
subject	to	the	five	(5)	year	periodic	review	conducted	by	the	Specified	Authority.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.06.2024
3a
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
sCheduLe  II
Column I
Degree
Column II
Abbreviation for Degree
Bachelor of arts Ba
Bachelor of arts honours in Pali Ba hons (Pali)
Bachelor of science in Information technology Bsc It
 dr. A. D. S uSIL  PREMAjAyANTHA ,
 Minister of education.
Colombo,
13th june, 2024.
eOG 06 - 0151