

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1907$21 - 2015 ud¾;= ui 25 jeks nodod - 2015'03'25
No. 1907/21  - WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  25,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A - G 21263 — 13 (2015/03)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No.  : CI/1520.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT  (CHAPTER  131)
THE  Collective Agreement entered into between The
Employers' Federation of Ceylon, No. 385 J3, Old Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya of the one part and Ceylon Mercantile Industrial &
General Workers' Union (CMU), No. 3, 22nd Lane, Colombo
03 of the other part on 11th day of September 2014 is hereby
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes
Act, Chapter131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon
(Revised Edition 1956)
H
ERA TH YAPA,
 Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
04th March, 2015.
Collective Agreement No. 38 of 2014
This Collective Agreement made this Eleventh day of
September Two Thousand Fourteen pursuant to the industrial
Disputes Act between The Employers' Federation of Ceylon,
a trade union duly registered under the provisions of the
Trade Unions Ordinance and having its registered office at
385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya, (hereinafter referred to as
"the Federation") of the One Part and The Ceylon Mercantile,
Industrial and General Workers' Union (CMU), a trade union
duly registered under the Provisions of the Trade Unions
Ordinance and having its registered office at  No. 3, 22nd
Lane, Colombo3 (hereinafter referred to as "the Union") of
the other Part witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the
parties as follows :
Title : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as
The Clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staff Collective
Agreement of 2014 and will supersede all previous Collective
Agreements signed between the parties.
PART I
Containing terms and conditions of Employment and
Matters Incidental Thereto or Connected Therewith
1. Employers to be Bound :
This Agreement shall, subject as hereinafter provided,
bind the memebers of the Federation set out in the First
Schedule hereto.
2. Employees to be Covered and Bound ;
(i) All Clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staff ;

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
(ii) Such Tec hnical, Sales and Allied Staff as at the
Twenty third day of May Two Thousand and
Eleven were covered by the Clerical, Supervisory
and Allied Staff Collective Agreement No. 20 of
2011 only to the extent that they were covered
thereby ; and
(iii) Such Technical, Sales and Allied Staff  in respect
of those provisions of this Agreement and upon
and subject to such other terms and conditions as
may be mutually agreed between the parties after
the date hereof who are members of the Union and
who are employed by any of the Employers set out
in the First Schedule hereto, save and except -
(a) staff holding executive or managerial
positions,
or
(b) staff employed in manual work who are not
expressly covered by this Agreement.
3. Date of Operation and Duration :
This Agreement shall be effective as from the First Day
of September Two Thousand Fourteen and shall
thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by
either party giving one month's notice in writing to the
other. Provided however that neither party hereto shall
give such notice to the other party before the Thirty
First  day of January Two Thousand Seventeen.
Provided further that in the event of a reduction in the
par value of the Sri Lanka Rupee under any provision
of law, either party shall be at liberty to abrogate this
Agreement by giving one month's notice in writing to
the other in terms of the Industrial Dispsutes Act.
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment :
(i) The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall
from the date hereof and during the continuance
in force of this Agreement, be deemed to be
included in all the contracts of service between
the Employer bound by this Agreeement and an
Employee covered and bound by this Agreement,
whether such contracts of service be written or
oral, which are subsisting as at the date hereof or
which come into being during the continuance in
force of this Agreement ;
(ii) ( a) The Union and its members who are
employeed covered and bound by this
Agreement jointly and severally agree with
the Employer that during the contiuance in
force of this Agreement, they will not seek to
vary or add to all or any of the terms and
aconditions of the employment presently
applicable to any of the employees covered
by and bound by this Agreement, or all or any
of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of
the employees covered and bound by this
Agreement other than by mutual Agreement ;
(b) Subject to the terms of this Collective
Agreement, the Employer agrees that is shall
not seek to vary or add to all or any of the
terms and conditions of employment presently
applicable to any of the employees covered
and bound by this Agreement, or all or any of
the benefits presently enjoyed by and of the
employees covered and bound by this
Agreement other than by mutual agreement ;
(c) Any dispute or difference arising from
negotiation under provisions of sub-clause
(a) or (b) may be resolved by voluntary
arbitrtion but only if all the parties concerned
agree to submit such dipute or difference for
settlement by voluntary arbitration ;
(iii) Where the existing terms and conditions  of
employment of an Employee covered and abound
by this Agreement are more favourable that the
terms and conditions provided for in this
Agreement then nothing in this Agreement shall
in any way affect or prejudice such existing terms
and conditions of employment and such terms and
conditions of employment shall continue to exist
notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein ;
(iv) Where an Employee was immediately prior to the
date hereof entitled or becomes entitled on or after
that date under or by virtue of any law or under
any contract, agreement, award or custom to any
rights of privileges more favourable than those to
which he would be entitled under this Agreement,
nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or
construed to authorise or permit the Employer to
withhold, restrict or terminate such rights or
privileges.
5. Hours of Work :
The normal working hours shall, during the continuance
in force of this Agreement, be those hours which are
customarily worked in the establishment of each
Employer bound by this Agreement.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
6. Overtime :
(i) Any work which is performed in excess of normal
working hours shall be remunerated at one and
one half (1 1/2) times the normal duly rate.
(ii) Where it appears that in any establishment of an
Employer an Employee on being asked to work
overtime, other than on a weekly holiday, is likely
towork overtime for a period of more than two (2)
hours after the normal working hours, the Employee
shall be entitled to an interval of not less than
thirty (30) minutes at the end of such normal
working hours before commencing overtime work.
7. Weekly Holidays :
Subject to Clause 10 Part I hereof the following provisins
shall govern holidays.
(i) Subject to sub-clause (iii) hereof the weekly
holidays prescribed by the Act shall be the weekly
half holiday and the weekly full holiday as defined
in Part II hereof ;
(ii) Work performed on not more than two such weekly
holidays in any one calendar month may, at the
instance of the Employer and with the consent of
the Employee, be paid for in the manner set out
hereunder and the Employee on being paid in the
manner set out hereunder shall not to be entitled
to a hlaf holiday or a full holiday as the case maybe
in lieu :
(a) For any work performed after the normal
closing time up to 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime
remuneration at double the normal hourly rate
for each hour or proportionately for any
fraction of an hour ;
(b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the
weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be paid
overtime remuneration at treble the normal
hourly rate for each hour of proportionately
for any fraction of an hour ;
(c) In addition to the remuneration payable under
paragraph (a) above or paragraphs (a) and (b)
above, the Employee shall be paid the
equivalent of the Employee's salary for on half
day ;
(d) For any work performed under and up to four
(4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the overtime remuneration payable
to the Employee shall be one thirtieth (1/30th)
of the Employee's monthly salary ;
(e) For any work performed under and up to four
(4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00
p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the overtime
remuneration payable to the Employee shall
be one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee's
monthly salary in respect of the excess
hours ;
(f) For any work performed in excess of eight (8)
hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the
weekly full holiday, the Employee shall be paid
overtime remuneration at treble the normal
hourly rate for each hour or proportionately
for and fraction of an hour of such excess ;
(g) In addition to the remuneration payable under
paratraph (d), or paragraphs (d) and (e) or
paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) above, the
Employees shall be paid the equivalent of the
Employee's salary for one day.
(iii) Where an Employee has performed work on not
more than two weeily holidays in any one calendar
month and has been paid for such work in the
manner set out in the preceding sub- clause then
in respect of work perfomed on any further weekly
holidays in the same calendar month the Employee
shall be remunerated in the manner set out
hereunder and shall be entitled to and allowed a
half holiday and/or a full holiday in lieu of the
weekly half holiday and/or the weekly full holiday
as the case may be :-
(a) For any work performed after the normal
closing time up to 5.00 p.m. on the weekly hlaf
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime
remuneration at double the normal hourly rate
for each hour or proportionately for any
fraction of an hour ;
(b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the
weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be paid
overtime remuneration at treble the normal
hourly rate for each hour of proportionately
for any fraction of an hour ;
(c) For any work performed under and upto hours
(4) before one p.m. on the weekly full holiday,

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
the Employee shall be paid overtime
remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30) of the
employee's at nothing salary ;
(d) For any work performed in excess of four (4)
hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00
p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the Employee
shall be paid overtime remuneration at one
thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee's monthly
salary in respect of the excess hours ;
(e) For any wrok performed in excess of eight (8)
hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the
weekly full holiday, the Employee shall be paid
overtime remuneration at treble the normal
hourly rate for each hours or proportionately
for any fraction of an hour of such excess.
8. Casual Leave :
Leave for private business or for any other reason
whatsoever, including ill-health if an Employee's
entitlement of sick leave has been fully utilised, shall
be allowed in accordance with the Employee's
entitlement under the Act up to a maximum of seven (7)
days in each year of employment whereof not more
than two (2) days at any one time shall be taken, save
upon the grounds of ill-health. Such leave shall be
known as Casual Leave and shall be additional to all
other holidays and leave provisions but an Employee
shall not be entitled to take such Casual Leave
preceding or following any period of Annual Leave.
Casual Leave shall normally be granted on request
without the Employee being required to state the reason
for the request. Where an Employer finds it difficult to
grant an application for Casual Leave, his difficulty
shall be notified to the Employee as soon as possible
after the application is made an in such case the
Employeemay be required to state the reason for the
application in order that the Employer may decide
whether or not it is reasonable in the circumstances to
grant the leave.
9. Statutory and Customary Holidays :
Subject to Clause 10 of Part I hereof, the following
provisions shall govern statutory and customary
holidays -
(i) The Following holidays shall be allowed each year
as paid holidays :
New Year's Day
Thai Pongal Festival Day
Independance Day
Sinhala & Tamil New Year (Two Days)
Good Friday
Holy Saturday (Half Day)
May Day
The Day following Wesak
Prophet Mohammed's B'day
Christmas Eve (Half Day)
Christmas Day
Boxing Day'
(ii) ( a) If any of  the above days is a statutoty holiday
and if it is falls on a weekly half holiday, an
additional half day shall be granted on the
working day immediately preceding it ; and if
it falls on a weekly full holiday, a substitute
holiday shall be granted on a working day
either in six (6) days preceding or in the six (6)
days succeeding such weekly full holiday. No
substitute holiday shall be allowable for any
day specified above, which is not a statutory
holiday, if such day falls on a weekly half
holiday or a weekly full holiday ;
(b) If any of the above days is a statutory holiday
and some other day not specified above is
declared a statutory holiday in substitution
for such day, then such day shall be treated
as a mormal working day.
(iii) Muslim Employees shall normally on application
be granted leave on the day following the end of
Ramazan and on the Hadji Festival Day ; and Hindu
Employees shall normally on application be granted
leave on the Deepavali Festival Day ; and such
leave shall be set off against any paid leave
entitlement or if all such paid leave entitlement for
that year shall be exhausted, such leave maybe
granted as an un-paid holiday ;
(iv) ( a) Where an Employer requires an Employee to
work during either of the half holidays set out
in sub clause (i) hereof (i.e. after the normal
working hours for that day) the Employer shall
pay the Employee  either -
(i) on the basis set out it paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) of Clause 7 (ii) of Part I hereof and
the Employee shall be not entitled to a
half holiday in lieu ;
or
(ii) on the basis set out in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Clause 7 (iii) of Part I hereof and the
Employee shall be entitled to and allowed
a half holiday in lieu.
(b) Where an Employer requires an Employee to
work on any of the holidays set out in sub
clause (i) hereof and provided that if such
holiday is a statutoty holiday the
Commissioner of Labour has given his
permission for the Employee to work on such
holiday, the Employer shall pay the Employee
either -

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
(i) on the basis set out in paragraphs (d),
(e), (f) and (g) of Clause 7 (ii) of Part i
hereof and the Employee shall not be
entitled to a holiday in lieu ;
(ii) on the basis set out in paragraphs (c), (d)
and (e) of Clause 7 (iii) of Part i hereof and
the Employee shall be entitled to and
allowed a holiday in lieu.
(iv) An employer my discuss with the Union the
possibility of removing one or more of the
customary holidays on terms which may be
mutually agreed to by the parties.
10. Supervisory Staff :
The provisions of Clauses 7 and 9 of Part I hereof
regarding weekly holidays and statutory and
customary holidays shall not apply to Storekeepers
Assistant Storekeepers, Overseers, Formen and other
like or similar categories whose work involves the
supervision of staff employed in manual work
(hereinafter referred to as "supervisory staff") but in
respect of such supervisory staff the following
provisions shall apply :
(i) Weekly half holiday .- For any work performed in
excess of the normal working hours on the weekly
half holiday, the Employee shall be remunerated at
one and a half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate
and such Employee shall not be entitled to any
holiday in lieu for any overtime work so performed
on a weekly half holiday.
(ii) Weekly full holiday .- For any work performed on
the weekly full holiday the Employee shall be
remunerated as follows :
(a) (i) For any work performed under and up to
four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly
full holiday, the Employee shall be paid
overtime remuneration at one thirtieth
(1/30th) of the Employee's monthly salary ;
(ii) For any owrk performed in excess of four
(4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before
5.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shalls be paid overtime
remuneration at one thirtieth (1.30th) of the
Employee's monthly salary in respect of the
excess hours ;
(iii) In respect of any work performed in excess
of eight (8) hours of continuing after 5.00
p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime
remuneration at treble the normal hourly
rate of each hour ar proportionately for any
fraction of an hour of such excess.
(iv) In addition to the remunuration payable
under paragraph (i), above or paragraphs
(i) and (ii) or paragraph (ii) and (iii) above
the employee shall be paid the aquilent of
the employees salary for one (1) day.
Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday
and the Employee is remunerated in the manner set out
above, the Employee shall be entitled to and any  a
holiday in lieu.
(b) (i) For any work performed under and up to four
(4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the Employees paid overtime
remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the
Employee's monthly salary.
(ii) For any work performed in excess of four (4)
hours and up to egiht (8) hours before 5.00p.m.
on the weekly full holiday, the Employee shall
be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth
(1/30th) of the Employee's monthly salary in
respect of the excess hours.
(iii) In respect of any work performed in excess of
eight (8) hours of continuing after 5.00 p.m. on
the weekly full holiday, the Employee shall be
paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal
hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for
any fraction of an hour in repect of such excess.
Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday
and the Employee is remunerated in the manner set out
above, the Employee shall in addition be entitled to
and allowed  a holiday in lieu.
(iii) Statutory and Customary Holidays .- Supervisory
staff shall be entitled to such Statutory and
Customary Holidays as they have Hither enjoyed
prior to the coming into force of this Agreement
notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this Agreement and for any work
performed on such staturoty of cusomary holidays
teh supervisory staff shall continue to be
remunerated in the manner in which they were
remunerated prior to the coming into force of this
Agreement notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in this Agreement. Provided
however that the Supervisory Staff shall have the
same holidays as may from time to time be enjoyed
by the staff employed in manual work supervised
by such supervisory staff and that the total of
such holidays shall not be less than the total of
the Statutory and Customary Holidays enjoyed
by the Supervisory Staff as at the date hereof ;
(iv) Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed in
any way as bringing the Supervisory staff within
the provisions of the Act.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
11. Annual Holidays :
Annual holidays shall be as prescribed by the Act and
an Employee may opt to set off absence due to ill health
in excess of the entitlement provided under Clause 12
of Part 1 hereof against his annual leave entitlement.
12. Sick Leave :
(i) An Employee shall be entitled to not less than
twenty one (21) days leave, exclusive of weekly or
other holidays, in any one year in case of sickness,
on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause
(ii) hereof ;
(ii) An Employer will be entitled to refuse to grant pay
for any days of absence on grounds of sickness
not supported by a certificate from a Registered
Medical Practitioner :
(a) where such period of absence exceeds two (2)
days,
(b) where the number of days already allowed on
full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified
by a Medical Practitioner, is in excess of ten
(10) days in any one year and the Employer
has reasonable cause for suspicion of the bona
fides of the application of the Employee,
or
(c) Where the absence of the Employee on
grounds of sickness immediately follows or
precedes any holiday allowed under Clauses
8, 9 and 11 of Part I hereof.
Provided further that any Employee who has abused the
concession conferred by paragraph (a) above shall be liable
to fortfeit the same and his Employer may by agreement with
the Union accordingly withdraw such concession.
(iii) An Employee who takes less than twenty one (21)
days sick leave in any one year as prscribed above
shall be entitled to avail himself of the balance of
his entitlement for such year in any succeeding
year or years subject to the following provisions :
(a) In no case shall the entitlement to sick leave
on full pay in any one year by reason of such
accumulation of sick leave entilement exceed
ninety (90) days ;
(b) The accumulated sick leave which an
Employee is entitled to take in terms of sub
clause (iii) (a) hereof may be availed of an
account of prolonged illness, hospitalisation,
infectious disease or similar circumstances,
but shall not be used for casual illness ;
(c) An Employee who avails himself of
accumulated sick leave in any year shall
support such absence with a certificate from a
Registered Medical Practitioner unless this
requirement is waived by the Employer ;
(d) An Employee who is entitled to accumulated
sick leave in terms of this sub clause iii (b)
before utilising his 21 days sick leave in
respect of the year in which he wished to avail
himself of the sick leave, if he has not already
utilised such 21 days leave.
13. Salaries :
The salaries of all employees who were in employment
as at 1st September 2014 and continue to be in
employment as at the date of signing of this Agreement
shall be revised as follows :
(i) A sum equivalent to 15% of the salary of an
employee as at August 2014 shall be added to the
salary with effect from 1st September 2014 ;
(ii) A sum equivalent 5% of the salary of an employee
as at August 2015 shall be added to the salary of
an employee with effect from 1st September 2015 ;
(iii) A sum equivalent 2.5% of the salary of an employee
as at 1st August 2016 shall be added to the salary
of an employee with effect from 1st September 2016.
In addition, as a matter of goodwill, an ex gratia payment
equivalent to the amount mentioned in (i) above X 6
will be paid to all employees, which will not attract any
consequential benefits such as EPF, ETF, over time,
etc.
13. The salary ranges and increments applicable to the
different categories of employees covered and bound
by this Agreement will be as follows :
New Salary Ranges
                    Rs. Rs. Increments
Minor Staff 16,100 to 29,900 Minimum Rs. 350
upto Rs. 750
Grade I 16,390 to 32,775 Minimum Rs. 450
upto Rs. 950
Grade II 16,675 to 34,500 Minimum Rs. 500
upto Rs. 1,000
Higher Grade17,250 to 36,800 Minimum Rs. 600
upto Rs. 1,050
Special Grade17,825 to 39,100
Minimum Rs. 650
upto Rs. 1,100

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
14. (a) The annual increments provided in each grade of
the scales of consolidated salaries set out above
shall be automatic unless as a matter of punishment
for general inefficiency or disciplinary action on
account of serious misconduct an increment is
suspended, stopped or deferred ; in which case
where an increment is.
(i) Deferred, the loss of increment shall be
continuous throughout the year ;
(ii) Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for
the periiod of stoppage during the year ;
(iii) Suspended, the increment is suspended pending
a decision to defer or stop an increment, such
decision being dependent upon a consideration
of the factors giving rise to the suspension.
Where on such decision an increment is neither
stopped nor deferred, then the suspension shall
be treated as waived and the full increment from
the date of suspension therefore shall accrue
to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment
shall only be effected in cases where the employee has
been notified in writing of a complaint against such
employee and had been found guilty after due inquiry
of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in the
circumstances does not merit termination of
employment.
15. Salaries for periods less than one month :
For the purpose of this Agreement salaries of any
Employee for periods less than one month shall be
computed in the manner following :
(a) For one hour - the salary for a month divided  by
Two Hundred and Forty (240) ;
(b) For one day - the salary for a month divided by
Thirty (30) ;
(c) For one hald day (either morning or afternoon) - a
day's salary ascertained as above divided by Two
(2) ;
(d) For one week - a day's salary ascertained as above
multiplied by seven (7).
16. Provident Fund :
(i) An Employer and Employee shall contribute to the
Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the
Employees' Provident Fund Act. No. 15 of 1958 ;
(ii) Subject to the provisions of the Employees' Trust
Fund Act No. 46 of 1980, where an Employer and
Employee as at the date hereof were contributing
to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than
those prescribed by the Employees' Provident
Fund  Act, the more favourable rates of contribution
will continue.
17. Bonus :
(i) Without prejuidce to existing bonus schemes,
Employees will continue to pay ex-gratia  to
Employees bonuses which will not be less than
the quantum of bonus payments paid to them in
accordance with prevailing practice prior to the
First Day of January, Two Thousand and Fourteen
in each establishment. If an Employer finds it
necessary, in his discretion, to reduce the quantum
of bonus payments in respect of any year, the
Branch Union in the establishment of the Employer
concerned may canvass the question of the
reduction with the Employer. If the Branch Union
is not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the
Union may pursue the matter with the Federation.
Thereupon, the Federation will consider the matter
and advise the Employer concerned in such
manner as the Federation deems fit in the
circumstances. If the Union is not satisfied in regard
to the quantum of bonus payments finally decided
by the Employer in the light of the advice given by
the Federation, the Union will not pursue the matter
further by any form of trade union action or
otherwise during the pendency of this
Agreement ;
(ii) Payment of bonus higher than the quantum of
bonus payments in the past will be in the sole
discretion of the Employer, and the payment of
such higher bonus shall not be subject to any
dispute ;
(iii) The provisions of sub clauses (i) and (ii) above
will mutatis mutandis  apply to existing bonus
schemes ;
(iv) The Federation and the Union reserve the right to
review the provisions of this caluse in the event of

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
profit sharing or Employee participation in profits
becoming compulsory by virtue of any law. Any
dispute arising therefrom shall be dealt with as
provided in clause 26 of Part I hereof.
18. Promotions :
(i) The following shall be the principles which will
guide Employees on the question of promotion :
(a) Mere length of service shall not be the sole
criterion for promotion and the Employer shall
be entitled to take into account other factors
such as efficiency, educational qualifications
and character. Where suitability is comparable,
seniority shall be given preference ;
(b) An Employee in Grade I in the Clerical or
Supervisory Staff will normally be promoted
to Grade II after completing an year's service
in Stage 7 unless his work is of a mechanical
or routine nature not involving a degree of
skill or reponsibility or unless his inefficiency
has been established after due inquiry as
provided in Clause 23 of Part I hereof ;
(c) Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory Staff
from Grade II to the Higher Grade will depend
on vacancies and Employees who have shown
the necessary capacity will be eligible for
promotion to the Higher Grade ;
(d) Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory Staff
to the Special Grade will be from the Higher
Grade and will depend on merit.
(ii) The number of Employees in the Higher or Special
Grade of the Clerical and Supervisory Staff of any
establishment will be determined having regard,
inter alia to -
(a) the nature of the undertaking ;
(b) the strength of the work force ;
(c) the work involved in a post ; and
(d) the merit of the Employees availalbe for
promotion.
(iii) Where an Employee is promoted at teh normal
incremental date from one grade to another, such
Employee shall be placed at a salary stage in the
Higher Grade which will give such Employee a
salary not less than that which he would have
received had he reamined in the grade from which
he is promoted and had been advanced one state
in that grade. But where an Employee is promoted
on a date other than the normal incremental data,
such Employee shall be placed at a salary stage in
the higher grade which will give him a salary not
less than that which he would have received if he
had remained in the grade from which he is
promoted. Provided however, that if an Employee
is standing at the end of a grade when he is
promoted to the next grade, such Employee may
be placed at any state in the higher grade to which
he is promoted which will give him a higher salary
than the maximum salary in the grade from which
he is promoted.
19. Transfers :
(i) Where it is a term of employment either express or
implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred
from one locality of an establishment to another,
such Employee will not be entitled to any additional
remuneration if, in consequence of a transfer from
one locality to another, there is an increase in the
number of hours of work ;
(ii) Where is it not a term of employment either express
or implied that an Employee is liable to be
transferred from one locality of an establishment
to another, such Employee will be entitled to receive
and the Employer shall be liable to pay additional
remunertion in order to compensate for any
increase in the number of hours of work arising
from a transfer from one locality of an establishment
to another. The amount of such additional
remuneration, which will depend on the extent to
which the hours of work have been increased, shall
be mutually agreed upon between the Employer
and Employee or the Union on his behalf. Provided
however, that if the Employee is re-transferred to
the locality in which he was previously employed
and/or the hours of work previously worked by
him  are restored to such Employee, the additional
remunertion granted to him shall be withdrawn with
effect from the date of such re-transfer or
restoration ;
(iii) Where it is not a term of employment either express
or implied that an Employee is liable to be
transferred from one locality of an establishment
to another and the transfer of such an Employee

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
will cause him substantial domestic disorganisation
such as may arise in consequence of a transfer
from one station to another such transfer shall be
effected by mutual consent between the Employer
and such Employee even if :
(a) such transfer will not involve a change in the
number of hours of work ; or
(b) he is offered additional remuneration in terms
of sub-clause (ii) above.
(iv) Nothing in the preceding sub-clause of this Clause
shall prejudice the right of an Employee to make
representations to the Employer against any order
of transfer. If an Employer requires an Employee to
comply with an order of transfer notwithstanding
such representations, the Employee shall comply
with the order of transfer but without prejudice to
the right of an Employee to make representations
to the Employer against any order of transfer. It an
Employer requires an Employee to comply with an
order of transfer notwithstanding such
representations, the Employee shall comply with
the order of transfer but without prejudice to the
right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the
Union on his behalf to dispute such transfer with
the Employer thereafter as provided in this
Agreement ;
(v) If the Executive Committee of the Union considers
that any order of transfer of an Employee by an
Employer is calculated to threaten or undermine
the existance or the legitimate activities of the
Union or its members or is grossly unfair or
seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union,
the Union shall notify the Employer and the
Federation thereof in writing and may, if  in the
opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union
the circumstances so warrant, instruct the
Employee  to refrain from complying with the order
of transfer pending settlement of ths dispute as
provided in this Agreement.  If the Union instruct
the Employee to refrain from complying with the
order of transfer as aforesaid, the Union shall notify
the Employer and the Federation thereof in writing
and in that envent the Employer shall be entitled
to suspend the Employee immediately without pay.
Provided however, that if the Employer
subsequently agrees or if an Arbitrator holds tht
the order of transfer was not justified the Employee
shall be entitled to his salary for the priod of
suspension. If on the other hand, an Arbitrator
holds that the order of transfer was justified, the
Employee shall comply with the order of transfer
and he shall not be entitled to his salary for the
periiod of suspension. The refusal of an Employee
to comply with an order of transfer or instructions
from the Union after the Union notifying the
Employer and the Federation as aforementioned
shall not be deemed to be an act of insubordination
by the Employee and the Employee shall not be
liable to disciplinary action by the Employer for
such refusal.
20. Carrying out Employer's Intructions as to Duties :
(i) If an Employee considers that any duty which he
is required to perform by an Employer does not fall
within the scope of his employment under the
Employer, the Employee shall be entitled to bring
such matter to the notice of the Employer. If
notwithstanding such notification the Employer
requires the Employee to carry out such
instructions, then the Employee shall be entitled
to request teh Employer to give him instructions in
writing ;
(ii) If the Employer gives the Employees wuch
instructions in writing, the Employee shall carry
out the same but without prejudice to the right of
the Employee of the Branch Union or the Union
on his behalf to dispute such matter with the
Employer thereafter as provided in this Agreement
;
(iii) If the Employer refuses to give such instructions
in writing, the Employee shall be entitled to refuse
to carry out such instructions and in that event
the Employer shall have no right of action against
the Employee ;
(iv) If the Employer gives such instructions in writing
but the Employee fails to carry out the same, the
Employer shall be entitled to suspend the Employee
immediately without pay and to take disciplinary
actin against him without prejudice to the right of
the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on
his behalf to dispute such suspension or such
disciplinary action as may be taken against the
Employee as provided in this Agreement.
21. Suspension :
(i) A employee may, subject as hereinafter provided,
be suspended without pay by an Employer  :
(a) pending an inquiry to be held by such
Employer on a charge or charges of
misconduct where such charge or charges
relate to :

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
(i) fraud, theft, misappropriation or a like offence
by the Employee in the course of his
employment ;
(ii) abuse, threat or gross insubordination by the
Employee of or to a member of the executive
or managerial staff of the Employer ;
(iii) a breach of peace, or damage to property, or
disturbance of the business of the Employer.
Provided however, that an Employer shall suspend an
Employee under paragraph (iii) above only for so long as the
Employee's continuance in employment will or is likely to be
undesirable or to be prejudicial to the proper investigation of
the charges or the Employer carrying on his business :
(b) as a punishment for misconduct for a period
not exceeding seven (7) working days, after
due inquiry ;
(c) if an Employee refrains from complying with
any order of transfer in terms of Clause 19 of
Part I hereof or fails to carry out the Employer's
written instructions in terms of Clause 20 of
Part I hereof.
(ii) At the time of suspension or within twenty four
(24) hours thereof, the Employer shall provide the
Employee with a written order or suspension
specifying the reasons for such suspension ;
(iii) Nothing in the preceding sub-clause shall prejudice
the right of an Employee or a  Branch Union or the
Union on his behalf to dispute an order of
suspension thereafter as provided in this
Agreement.
22. Probation :
(i) Every Employee recruited by an Employer shall
serve a period of probation  of not more than six (6)
months. Provided however that if at the expiry of
the six (6) months probationary period the
Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such
Employee, the probationary period may be
extended for a further period of three (3) months
and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the
Employee in writing the reasons why the
probationary period has been further extended.
During the period of probation or extended
probation, the Employer shall have the right to
terminate the services of the Employee without
notice.
23. Disciplinary Action :
Where an Employer proposes to proceed against an
Employee then -
(i) irrespective of whether an Employee has been
suspended under Clause 21 of Part I hereof or not,
the Employee shall be furnished with a show cause
notice which shall set out the particulars of the
charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give
the Employee not less than five (5) clear working
days in which to give the answer or explanation to
the charges preferred ;
(ii) W ithin five (5)  clear working days after the date of
the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish
in writing to the Employer the answer or explanation
to the charges preferred against such Employee.
Provided however, that if in the circumstances it is
reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer
for an extension of time with which to furnish the
written answer or explanation to the show cause
notice and where such request is made by an
Employee to the Employer, the Employer shall grant
such request for such further period of time as is
deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case ;
(iii) If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer
or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall,
if he is under suspension, forthwith be reinstated
and shall be paid all emoluments and entitlements
due during the period of such suspension ;
(iv) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written
answer or explanation of the Employee to the show
cause notice and such answer or explanation is
rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall
commence an inquiry within fourteen (14) working
days from the date of receipt by him of the written
answer or explanation to the show cause notice ;
(v) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall
notify the Employee of the findings on each of the
charges in the show cause notice and the
punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
Provided that if an Employer fails to make an order,
except for reasons beyond the control of the
Employer, on the charges in the show cause notice
within thirty (30) working days from the conclusion
of the inquiry into such charges the Employee shall
not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and no inference adverse to the
Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn
from such charges.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
(vi) If the Employee is under suspension and the
Employer, after such inquiry, makes order that :
(a) The Employee shall not be dismised, then the
Employee shall resume employment forthwith
and shall, subject to Clause 21 (i) (b) hereof,
be paid all emoluments and entitlements due
during the period of suspension irrespective
of such other punishment less than dismissal
that may be imposed by the Employer on the
findings as to the charges in the show cause
notice ;
(b) The Employee shall be dismissed, the
Employee's dismissal shall take effect as from
the date of the Employee's suspension and
accordingly the Employee shall not be paid
for the period of such suspension ;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of
the charges in the show cause notice against
the Employee, the Employer is unable to make
a final order as it is necessary and desirable
that the matter be referred to the Police or other
authorities for further investigations or
inquires and that the matter be therefore
referred to the Police or other authorities or if
in view of the serious or involved nature of
the charges preferred against the Employee
the matter had been previously referred to the
Police or other authorities for investigations
or inquires that the outcome of such
investigations or inquires be awaited, then in
either of such circumstances, the Employee
may remain suspended without pay.
(vii) If in any case where an Employee is suspended as
provided for herein an Employer fails to make an
otder under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding
sub-clause for any reason other than of the
Employer's own seeking within thirty (30) working
days from the date of the Employee's suspension,
the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal
remuneration for the period of thirty (30) working
days from the date of such suspension and to his
full remuneration for the period of suspension in
excess of thirty (30) working days upto the date on
which the Employer makes and order under
paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause,
irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry ;
(viii) In any case where an Employee is suspended as
provided herein, the Employer shall make an order
paragraphs (a) to (c) of sub-clause (vi) here of within
ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the
Employee, unless he is prevented from so doing
by reason of the Employee's own seeking or for
reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is
agreed between the Federation and the Union that
in the circumstances of the case the period of
ninety (90) days be extended for such further time
as may be agreed ;
(ix) An Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry
as referred to in sub-clause (iv) and (v) hereof where
the Employer proposed to warn an Employee or
where the Employee admits to the charge or
charges. Provided however that if the Union
disputes the warning or the punishment imposed
on the Employee by the Employer and requests
the holding of an inquiry the Employer shall comply
with such request and the provisions relating to
the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject
to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had
not commenced with fourteen (14) working days
after receipt of the Employee's explanation shall
not be material or relevant.
24. Retirement :
An Employee has the option of retiring at the age
fifity five (55) years or any time thereafter and shall
retire on attaining the age of sixty (60) years. Provided
however that if the Employer requires to retain the
services of an Employee who has attained the age of
sixty (60) years, the Employee shall be offered fresh
employment on a temporary basis so long as the
Employer requires the services of such Employee.
25. Trade Union Action :
(i) The Union hereby undertakes in respect of all the
terms and conditions of employment covered by
this Agreement not to seek to vary or alter any
such terms or conditions other than by negotiation
during the currency of this Agreement and hereby
expressly undertakes, subject to Clause 26 (iv) (d)
of Part I hereof, not to engage in a strike or other
form of trade union action in respect of a dispute
but will have such dispute settled in accordance
with the procedure set out in Clause 26 of Part I
hereof ;

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
(ii) In case the Unioin decides to call for a general
stoppage of work by its members in establishments
of employers covered by this Agreement, on any
matter not covered by this Agreement, the Union
will give written notice to the employers in whose
establishments the work stoppage is to take palce
and will give its reasons therefor. The Union will
endeavour to give at least one week's notice to the
employers of the date of the stopage, or even longer
notice, between the dae of the Union's decision to
call for a general stoppage of work and the date
fixed for the stoppage, in the circumstances in
which such a stoppage may be decided upon. In
such case, the Union will also instruct its Branch
Unions in those establishments to exempt an
agreed number of members from the work
stoppage, in order to provide an employer on a
written request made by the employer, with a
skeleton staff, in order to maintain essential
services.
25. Disputes Procedure :
Save and except any difference arising out of bonus
which shall be dealt with as provided in Clause 17 of
Part I hereof, it is hereby agreed that the procedure to
be followed for the settlement of a dispute shall be as
set out in sub-clause (i) or (ii) hereof.
(i) ( a) Where a dispute is between an employee and
an employer, the employee shall, in the first
instance, raise the matter through such
employee's Branch Union with the employer
and both parties shall endeavour to effect an
amicable settlement. Provided, however, that
if the exigencies of the circumstances warrant
the Union acting immediately in accordance
with the succeeding paragraph (b) it shall not
be necessary for the employee's Branch Union
to raise the matter as herein provided before
the Union acts under the succeeding
paragraph (b) ;
(b) In the event of a dispute not being settled
under paragraph (a) above, or in the case of a
dispute between a branch Union and an
employer, the Union may, if it so desires, raise
the matter with the Federation and thereupon
all steps shall be taken that may be reasonable
by the Union and the Federation for an
amicable settlement of the matter in dispute
utilising if desired, the good offices of the
Conciliation Division of the Department of
Labour ;
(c) In the event of a dispte not being resolved or
settled under the preceding paragraphs (a) or
(b) or in the case of a dispute between the
Union and the Federation, the parties shall
agree a statement of the matters in dispute
and such matter shall be referred to an
Arbitrator or Arbitrators under section 3 (i) )
(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act for settlement
by arbitration, 
or by mutual agreement decide
on a reference to a qualified mediator or body
of mediators, if and when it may be feasible.
Provided however that should the parties fail
to agree on a statement of the issue in dispute
for purposes of arbitration, each party shall
furnish the Commissioner of Labour with a
statement setting out the issues in dispute
and thereafter the Commissioner of Labour
shall set out the issues in dispute to be referred
to the Arbitrator or Arbitrators.
(ii) ( a) The Union may notify the Federation in writing
with a statement of the matter in dispte that
such dispute should be dealt with under the
sub-clause. As soon as possible after such
notification by the Union to the Federation a
Special Disputes Committee of the Federation
shall endeavour to settle the dispute. If no
settlement is effected within seven (7) days
from the date of the Union notifying the
Federation, the dispute shall, as soon as
possible, be referred to the Commissioner of
Labour for settlement by arbitration as
provided in sub-clause (i) (c) above, or if the
Union or the Employer so requests, the dispute
shall be referred immediately to a Special
Arbitrator for settlement by arbitration.
(b) If a dispute arising from the dismissal or
discharge of an Employee by an Employer is
referred to a Special Arbitrator as aforesaid
and he is unable to make an award within
twenty one (21) days of the date of receipt of
the reference, the Special Arbitrator shall be
competent, but not bound, either of his own
motion or at the instance of the Union, to make
an interim award after duly considering all the
relevant facts and circumstances for his failure
to make an award within twenty one (21) days
of the date of reference, directing the Employer
to pay the Employee a sum not exceeding the
equivalent of one half of the Employee's normal
remuneration for the first thirty (30) days from
the date of cessation of employment and for
such period thereafter but not later than the
date of the award on the reference a sum not
exceeding the equivalent of the Employee's
full remuneration. The parties shall be bound
by and comply with the terms of any such
interim award.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
(iii) Subject to sub-clause (iv) hereof, in procedure for
the settlement of a dispute shall be as set out in
sub-clause (i) hereof.
(iv) The procedure for the settlement of a dispute in
respect of the matters enumerated in the
succeeding paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) shall, susbject
to the succeeding paragraph (d), be as set out in
sub-clause (ii) (a) hereof.
(a) A dispute in connection with the
interpretation or implementation of this
Agreement arising from an act of the Employer,
which in the opinion of the Executive
Committee of the Union is calculated to
threaten or undermine the existence or the
legitimate activities of the Union ;
(b) A dispute not connected with the
interpratation or implementation of this
Agreement arising from an act of an Employer
which in the opinion of the Executive
Committee of the Union is calculated to
threaten or undermine the existence of the
legitimate activities of the Union or its members
or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to
the interests of the Union or its members.
Provided however that the disputes shall be
referred to an Arbitrator or Arbitrators under
the Industrial Disputes Act or to a Special
Arbitrator as the case may be, if no settlement
is effected within seven (7) days from the date
of the Union notifying the Federation in terms
of sub-clause (ii) (a) hereof, only if the Union
so desire ;
(c) A dispute arising from the dismissal or
discharge of an Employee by an Employer on
disciplinary grounds, which dismissal or
discharge is in the opinion or the Executive
Committee of the Union vindictive or in bad
faith and is calculated to threaten or
undermine the existence or the legitimate
activities of the Union. Provided however that
the dispute shall be referred to an Arbitrator
or Arbitrators under the Industrial Disputes
Act or to a Special Arbitrator as the case may
be, if no settlements is effected within seven
(7) days from the date of the Union notifying
the Federation in terms of sub-clause (ii) (a)
hereof, only if the Union so desires ;
(d) If the Union does not, however, desire to refer
a dispute for settlement by arbitration under
the provisions of the preceding paragraphs
(b) or (c), the Union reserves to itself the right
to engage in or authorise a strike or other from
of trade union action and the Federation and
each Employer reserves to itself and himself
the right to take such steps as it or he may
deem fit in the circumstances.
(v) ( a) In respect of a dispute arising between the
parties hereto where arbitration is provided
for under this Agreement, it is agreed that the
parties to the dispute shall determine at the
date thereof whether the dispute shall be
settled by arbitration by one Arbitrator or three
Arbitrators. Provided however that disputes
arising over dismissals shall normally by
referred to one Arbitrtor and disputes arising
over the proper interpretation or implementtion
of this Agreement if involving matters principle
or matters of general importance shall normally,
if possible, be reffered to a panel of not less
than three Arbitrators ;
(b) For the purposes of this Agreement, an
Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator shall be jointly
selected by the parties. If the parties fail to
agree on an Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator,
he shall be selected by the Commissioner of
Labour ;
(c) Where a dispute over a dismissal has been
referred for settlement by arbitration under the
provisions of this Agreement and the award
contains a finding that the dismissal of the
Employee by the Employer was not justified,
then it is hereby agreed between the parties
that normally in such a case the Arbitrator or
Special Arbitrator shall order that the Employee
shall be reinstated in his employment with
Employer and it is hereby further agreed that
in any such arbitration the Arbitrtor or the
Special Arbitrator shall take note of this
paragraph in making any such award ;
(d) A Special Arbitrator shall be competent, but
not bound, to make order in his award as to
the manner in which the costs of the
arbitration excluding the legal expenses of
either party shall be borne by the parties ;
(e) An award of an Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator
made as herein provided shall be final and
binding on the parties hereto.
(f) (i) Where the Union seeks to settle a dispute
by arbitration as provided for in this
clause, such request for arbitration shall
be communicated to the Federation within
six (6) months calculated from the date
on which negotiations fail ;

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
(ii) Either party shall be entitled at any stage
to inform the other than negotiations have
failed.
(iii) An Employer and the Federatin shall not
be under any obligation to refer to
arbitration any dispute where the request
for arbitration is not made within the
period of six (06) months specified in this
sub-clause.
(g) (i) Where the Union seeks to settle a dispute
relating to the termination of the services
of an employee by arbitration as provided
for in this clause, such termination should
have been disputed by the Employee with
the Employer, or by the Branch Union
with the Employer, or by Union with the
Employer or the Federation within three
(3) months of the date of termination ;
(ii) An Employer and the Federation shall not
be under any obligation to refer to
arbitration a dispute relating to the
termintion of the services of an Employee
where it has not been disputed as
aforementioned within the period of three
(3) months from the date of termination
of services ;
(iii) The date of termination for the purposes
of this sub-clause shall be the date on
which the written communication is sent
to the Employee terminating his services
and not the date on which the termination
of services takes effect under Clause 23
(vi) (b) hereof.
PART II
Containing the Facilities and Concessions Granted by the
Federation to the Union
1. Domestic Inquiries :
If an Employee who is furnished with a show cause
notice in terms of Clause 23 of Part I hereof is a member
of the Union, the following provisions shall apply to
the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such
show cause notice -
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided,
allow another member of the Union (hereinafter
referred to as  "an observer") to be present as an
observer without loss of salary for absence from
work ;
(b) In the Employee who is served with a show cause
notice desires an observer to be present at the
inquiry to be held pursuant to such show cause
notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before
the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such
observer ;
(c) An observer may answer any questions which the
person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but
an observer shall not be entitled to represent the
Employee who is served with a show cause notice
or otherwise partake in the inquiry ;
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be
entitled to require an observer who obstructs such
inquiry in any manner whatsoever to whithdraw
therefrom and an observer shall forthwith comply
with such requirement ;
(e) The absence of an observer from the whole or any
part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall
not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings there
to, not the findings pursuant thereto.
2. Union Meetings :
(i) The following provisions shall apply to meetings
of Branch Unions :
(a) In respect of each meeting which a Branch
Union desires to hold at the Employer's
premises, an application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer ;
(b) If the Employer decided to grant permission
the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter
alia , one or more of the undernoted
conditions :
(i) that no person other than an Employee
of the Company shall be present at a
meeting of the Branch Union ;
(ii) on occasions such as the Annual General
Meeting of the Branch Union office
bearers of the Union may with the
previous approval of the Employer
attend ;
(iii) fix a time limit within which a meeting of
the Branch Union shall be concluded or
adjourned.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
(c) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and
its office bearers to ensure that the terms on
which permission to hold a meeting of the
Branch Union is granted are duly complied
with ;
(d) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and
its office bearers to ensure that no damage is
caused in the course of or in connection with
a meeting of the Branch Union to the
Employer's property or any other persons at
the Employer's premises and the Union shall
idemnify the Employer and keep the Employer
indemnified against any such damage.
(ii) The following provisions shall apply to meetings
of the General Council of the Union :
(a) Without prejudice to the right of an Employer
to refuse to grant prermission if in his
discretion the exigencies of the circumstances
warrant refusal, an Employer will generally
grant permission to a member of the General
Council of the Union in order to attend a
meeting of the General Council, to leave office
not earlier than 3 o'clock in the afternoon on
not more than one occasion in a month without
loss of salary for such absence if an applicaton
for permission to attend is made at least forty
eight (48) hours before the time appointed for
holding the meeting of the General Council ;
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) above the
Union shall forthwith furnish each Employer
in whose service there are members of the
General Council of the Union with a list of
such members and keep such Employer
informed of all changes therein which may be
made from time to time.
(iii) The provisions of the preceding sub-clauses (i)
and (ii) shall not be in derogation of any existing
concessions or facilities granted by an Employer
to a Branch Union regarding Union Meetings ;
3. Duty Leave :
(i) The following provisions shall apply to duty
leave  :
Without prejudice to the right of an Employer to
refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the
exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal,
an Employer will generally grant permission for
not less than two office bearers of the Branch
Union -
(a) to be present at conferences held under the
aegis of the Employer or the Employers'
Federation of Ceylon or the Department of
Labour in connection with a dispute between
the Branch Union and the Employer ; or
(b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts,
Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals without loss
of salary for such absence.
(ii) An Employer will in his discretion grant leave to
an Employee to attend a Trade Union course of
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or aborad
on no pay leave unless the Employee concerned is
entitled to annual leave, customary or statutory
holidays which the wishes to utilies for the
purpose.
4. Check Off :
(i) ( a) In the clause "Employer" shall mean an
Employer bound by this Agreement and in
whose establishment the membership of the
Union is not less than forty per centum (40%)
of the persons employed by him in the
categories covered and bound by this
Agreement ;
(b) If, for the purpose of this sub-clause, it
becomes necessary to decide the question
whether in the establishment of an Employer
bound by this Agreement to membership of
the Union is not less than forty per centum
(40%) of the persons employed by him in the
categories covered by this Agreement, the
same shall be determined by a referendum
which shall be held by the Department of
Labour and the result of such referendum shall
be binding on the parties hereto and the
Employer concerned.
(ii) The Employer shall on the written request of an
Employee deduct from the pay due to such
Employee the current Union dues as are specified
by the Employee to be payable monthly by the
Employee to the Union and remit the amount so
deducted to the Union in accordacne with the
procedure and upon and subject to the conditions
hereinafter set forth.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
(iii) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of
Union dues from his pay shall sign a statement to
the effect in the form set out in Form No. 1 in the
Fourth Schedule hereto and hereinafter referred to
as "an authorisation" ;
(iv) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his
agreement to check-off at any time by signing a
statement to that effect in the form set out in Form
No. 2 in the Fourth Schedule hereto and hereinafter
referred to as"a revocation" ;
(v) No variation in the monthly deductions by way of
check-off shall be made by an Employer except by
mutual agreement with the Union and Employee
concerned. In the event of any variation being
agreed, each Employee will need to signify his
agreement to the revised amount being deducted
by way of check-off by signing a fresh
authorisation to that effect in the form set out in
Form No. 3 in the Fourth Schedule hereto ;
(vi) Entrance or readmission fees or special levies
authorized by the Union's constitution or
contributions to the Union's political fund shall
not be deducted by way of check-off ;
(vii) ( a) As far as practicable, deductions under an
authorisation shall commence from the pay
due immediately after the date of receipt of
such authorisation and shall continue
thereafter until the authorisation is canceled
by a revocation ;
(b) As far as practicable, deductions under an
authorisation shall cease from the date of
receipt of revocation canceling such
authorisation. Provided however -
that an Employer shall not a liable in any
manner whatsoever to the union or the
Employee concerned for failure to comply with
paragraphs (a) or (b) above.
that, in his discretion, the Employer shall b e
entitled not to make deductions by way of
check-off in any month if the deduction by
way of check-off will together with all other
deductions from an Employee's pay in that
month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(viii) ( a) The Employer shall once each month within
fifteen (15) days after the regular pay day remit
to the Treasurer of the Union the total sums
deducted by way of check-off by a cheque
drawn payable to "The Treasurer, Ceylon
Mercantile, Industrial and General Workers'
Union (CMU)" and crossed Account Payee ;
(b) The cheque shall be sent, at the Union's risk,
by post in a pre-paid envelop addressed to
the "The Treasurer, Ceylon Mercantile,
Industrial and General Workers' Union (CMU),
No. 3" 22nd Lane, Colombo 3" ;
(c) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly
acknowledge receipt of the cheque ;
(d) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the
Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as
aforesaid any sum other than the actual
deductions made.
(ix) The Federation may suspend the operation of this
clause as hereinafter provided by notice in writting
to the Union :
(a) If the Union or a Branch Union resorts to a
strike or any other form of trade union action
in breach of the terms or provisions of Part I
of this Agreement the Council of the
Federation may decide that the Federation or
an Employer may suspend the operation of
this clause for such time as may be decided
by the Federation but not exceeding the
duration of such strike or other form of trade
union action. Before such a decision is made
the Federation and the Union shall endeavour
to effect an amicable settlement ;
(b) If the Union fails to maintain itself as a properly
registered Trade Union under the Trade
Unions Ordinance the Council of the
Federation may decide that the Federation may
suspend the operation of this clause for such
time as may be decided by the Federation :
(c) If a decision is made by the Council of the
Federation under paragraphs (a) or (b) above,
the Federation or the Employer as the case
may be shall be absolved of complying with
the provisions of this clause in accordance
with the tenor of such decision.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
PART III
Containing Definitions of Certain Words
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the
subject or context the following words shall have the meaning
set opposite to them :
Words Meaning
Industrial Disputes Act - The Industrial Disputes Act No.
43 of 1950.
The Act - The Shop & Office Employees
(Regulations of Employment and
Remuneration) Act No. 19 of 1954.
The Federation - The Employer's Federation of
Ceylon.
The Union (CMU) - The Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial
& General Workers' Union
Branch Union - The Branch union of the Ceylon
Mercantile, Industrial & General
Workers' Union (CMU) in the
establishment of an Employer.
Employer (for - An Employer bound by the
convenience sometimes Agreement.
referred to as "he" or
its grammatical variations)
Employee (for - An Employee covered and bound
convenience sometimes by this Agreement.
referred to as "he" or
its grammatical variations)
Week - The period between midnight on
any Saturday night and midnight
on the succeeding Saturday night.
Week full holiday in - Shall have the meaning as "weekly
respect of any week holiday" under he Shop Office
Employees Act.
Weekly half holiday in - Shall have the same meaning as
respect of any week "weekly half holiday" in the Shop
& Office Employees Act
Two such weekly - Two full holidays or four half
holidays holidays or any combination of
full or half holidays which does
not exceed two full holidays.
Salary - The monthly salary according
to the salary ranges set out in
Clause 14 of Part I.
Normal incremental date - The date on which the employee
would normally receive an
increment.
Dispute - A dispute or difference between
an Employer and an Employee or
between a Branch Union and an
Employer or between the Union
and an Employer or between the
Union and the Federation on any
matter covered by this Agreement
or affecting the Employees
covered by this Agreement in
relation to their employment under
the Employers covered by this
Agreement.
Check-off - The act of the Employer deducting,
at the request of the Union,
subscriptions payable to the
Union by an Employee from the
latter's pay with his concurrence.
Words importing the masculine gendar shall include the
ferminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the
plural and vice versa.
FIRST SCHEDULE
List of Signatories
1. A Baur & Co. (Pvt.) Ltd.
2. Brown & Co. Ltd.
3. CIC Holdings PLC.
4. Forbes & Walker Ltd.
5. J L Morison Son & Jones (Ceylon) Ltd.
6. John Keels PlC.
7. Mackwoods Ltd.
8. M S J Industries Ltd.
9. S G S Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd.
Words Meaning

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2015
THE  SECOND  SCHEDULE
Form No. 1
Name of Employer : .......................................
AUTHORISA TION
In pursuance of the Agreement entered into between the
Employers' Federation of Ceylon and The Ceylon Mercantile,
Industrial & General Workers' Union (CMU) of which I am a
member, please deduct from my pay each month the sum of
Rupees ...................... (Rs..........) and remit the same to the
said Union on my behalf in respect of my current monthly
membership dues. The first payment should please be made
from my next pay following the date hereof.
......................................
Signature of Employee
................. (Date    of     Signing)
.......................................................................
(Full Name of Employee in Block Capitals)
.......................................... (Address of Employee)
Received On : .......................................................
(To be filled by Employer)
Form No. 2
Name of Employer : .......................................
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please
cease to deduct from my pay any further membership dues in
favour of  The Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial & General
Workers' Union (CMU) with effect from the next pay due to
me immediately following the date hereof.
......................................      ....................................
(Date of Signing)
(Signature of Employee)
.......................................................(Full Name of Employee)
.......................................... (Address of Employee)
Received On : .......................................................
(To be filled by Employer)
Form No. 3
Name of Employer : .......................................
AMENDMENT  OF  AUTHORISA TION
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please
deduct from my next pay following the date hereof Rupees
.............................
................. (Rs......................) instead of Rupees .....................
...............(Rs. .............) as here to for  and remit the same to
the Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial & General Workers' Union
(CMU) on my behalf in repsect of my current monthly
membership dues.
......................................                      ....................................
Date of Signing
(Signature of Employee)
.......................................................(Full Name of Employee)
.......................................... (Address of Employee)
Received On : .......................................................
(To be filled by Employer)
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto
set their hands at Colombo on this Eleventh day of September
Two Thousand and Fourteen.
.............................................. ....................................................
R. L. P. Peiris, M. S. Jayakody,
Director General, Deputy General Secretary,
The Employers' Federation Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial
of Ceylon. & General Workers'
Union (CMU).
Witnesses :
1. ........................................ 1. .......................................
W. M. K. L. Weerasinghe, Mangala Abeywickrema,
Deputy Director General, Vice President,
The Employers' Federation Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial
of Ceylon. & General Workers'
Union .
2. ........................................ 2. .......................................
K. Dissanayake, (Ms.) P. M. Daniel,,
Assistant  Director General, Administrative Secretary,
The Employers' Federation Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial
of Ceylon. & General Workers'
Union.
04 - 311
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA