

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
LANKA  CHILDREN’S  AND  YOUTH
THEATRE  FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 3 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 29th January, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 02, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

1Lanka Children’ s and Youth Theatre Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007
[Certified on 29th January 2007]
L.D.—O. INC 14/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  LANKA  CHILDREN ’S AND  YOUTH
THEA TRE FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Lanka
Children’s and Youth Theatre Foundation” has heretofore been
formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of undertaking,
promoting, sponsoring and co-ordinating theatre activities
with a view to developing a mentally and physically, healthy
child who will be a balanced individual with a distinct cultural
identity capable of effectively functioning in the community
and for effectively carrying out and transacting all objects
and matters connected with the said Association, according
to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects and
matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Lanka Children’s and
Youth Theatre Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of
2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as are now members of the Lanka
Children’s and Youth Theatre Foundation (hereinafter referred
to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body Corporate,  with perpetual succession under the name
and style of “ Lanka Children’s and Youth Theatre
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full
power and authority to have and use a common Seal and alter
the same at its pleasure
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Lanka
Children’s and
Youth Theatre
Foundation.
Short title.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Lanka Children’ s and Youth Theatre Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to undertake, promote, sponsor and co-ordinate
theatre activities in Sri Lanka for children and
youth ;
(b) to provide and create where necessary, an
environment conducive to the development, both
mentally and physically, of children and youth ;
(c) to train children and youth to be happy balanced
individuals with a well developed awareness of their
own cultural heritage and identity, capable of
functioning satisfactorily within society ;
(d) to promote multi-racial unity among children and
youth in Sri Lanka ;
(e) to affiliate and laise with other bodies with similar
objects with a view to facilitating the exchange of
ideas, knowledge and experience ; and
(f) to do all other things as are necessary for, or
conducive to, the attainment of the above object.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other written
law, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform and
execute all such Acts, matters and things whatsoever, as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or futherance of the
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or
raise money with or without security, to seek, receive or to
collect grants and donations and other assistance from the
State or any other bodies or organizations, to invest its
funds, and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Lanka Children’ s and Youth Theatre Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules of the Corporation for the time being in force, be
administered by a Council of Management consisting of seven
persons as may be provided for in such rules and elected or
nominated in accordance with such rules. The term of office
of the Council of Management shall be two years.
(2) The first Council of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Council of Management of
the Foundation holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, such Council
shall hold office until a Council of Management is elected or
nominated in accordance of the rules of the Corporation for
the time being inforce.
6. (1) The membership of the Corporation shall consist
of ordinary members and associate members.
(2) The Council may, however subject to the rules of the
Corporation for the time being inforce, admit as members, of
such classes and with such privileges and obligations as it
may prescribe, persons not eligible as ordinary members or
associate members.
(3) A separate register of associate members shall be
maintained and they shall enjoy the same privileges as
ordinary members but shall not be eligible to vote at meetings
of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any general meeting and by the majority of two-
thirds of the members qualified to vote, to make rules, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any other
written law for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation (including the holding of meetings, transaction
of business at meetings, the preparation of the annual reports
&c,.) and the accomplishment of its objects.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Membership of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Lanka Children’ s and Youth Theatre Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day preceding
the date of the commencement of this Act, shall in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law, be deemed to be rules of the Corporation
made under this section and may be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded in like manner as a rule made under
subsection (1).
(3) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to amended or rescinded in like manner as a rule made
under subsection (1).
(4) All members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
8. The Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of
this Act and the rules of the Corporation for the time being in
force, be able and capable in law—
(a) to acquire by way of purchase, exchange, gift, devise
or bequest or in any other manner, or to hold and
enjoy in perpetuity or for any lesser term subject to
any express trust or otherwise, any property
immovable or movable of any nature or kind
whatsoever ;
(b) to erect any building on any immovable property
vested in or acquired or held by the Corporation ;
and
(c) to sell, grant, convey, assign, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of any such property.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
charge such fees and subscriptions from its members as the
Corporation may deem reasonable in respect of the services
provided by the Corporation.
Power of the
Corporation to
hold and deal
with property.
Power to charge
fees and
subscriptions.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Lanka Children’ s and Youth Theatre Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assests and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practise as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
11. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of the
commencement of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation
hereby constituted and all debts due to, and all subscriptions,
contributions and fees payable to the Foundation on that day
shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
12. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Accounts of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Lanka Children’ s and Youth Theatre Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2007
13.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the republic or of any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is or
are by the rules prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its or their members.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICA TIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.