

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1321
1321
wxl 1"665 - 2010 cQ,s ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'07'30
No. 1,665 – FRIDAY , JULY 30, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1324
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1329
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th August, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd July,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in April-June 2007 has been pubilshed in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1322
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1323
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1324
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KEGALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 30th August, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
14th July, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kegalle Ruwanwella Post of Registrar of Birth and Death District Secretary/Additional
of Karawanella Base Hospital Registrar General, District Secretariat
Division Kegalle
07-1001
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Post of Deputy Registrar in the Supreme Court of
Sri Lanka
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Deputy Registrar in the
Supreme Court of Sri Lanka.
01. This post is permanent and pensionable.
02. Salary Scale (Monthly) .– Rs. 33,355 -3x790 - 17x1,050 -
Rs. 53,555.
03. Age.– Should be not less than 30 years and not more than 40
years of age on the closing date of the applications (Upper age limit
will not be applicable to the officers already employed in the Public/
corroration service).
04. Qualifications :
(a) Being a Deputy Registrar confirmed in the post in the
Court of Appeal in the Republic of Sri Lanka ; or

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1325
(b) Being an Attorney-at-Law who actively engaged in the
practice for a period not less than four (04) years.
Note.– The period in which the applicant served in a staff
grade post as an Attorney-at-Law in any Ministry,
Government Department or State Corporation or as a
Lecturer in Law College will be deemed as the period
actively engaged in the practice for the practies for the
requirement referred to in Section (b) above.
04. Every applicant -
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be of excellent moral character.
05. The applicant should be able to sutmit the following documents
when requested :
(a) Certificate of birth ;
(b) The highest educational certificate ;
(c) The certificate of professional qualifications ;
(d) The certificate of highest examination passed in Sinhala,
Tamil or English.
06. Those who apply for this post should prepare their
applications as per the specimen application form attached herewith
and send by registered post on or before 10.09.2010 to reach the
Secretary, Judicial Service Commission, Colombo 12.
07. Officers who are already employed in the Public/State
Corporation service should forward their applications through the
respective Heads of the Department.
08. The applicant will be acknowledged the receipt of the
application. If the acknowledgement is not received within one week
from the date of posting application, inquiring should be made from
this office on the production of postal receipt.
M. P. 
DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
Colombo 12.
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF DEPUTY REGISTRAR IN THE SUPREME
COURT OF SRI LANKA
01. 1. Name with initials :––––––––––.
2. Names indicated by initials :––––––––––.
02. 1. Permenent Address :––––––––––.
2. Official Address :––––––––––.
03. Nationality :––––––––––.
04. 1. Date of birth :––––––––––.
2. Age as at the closing date of the application :–––––––––.
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
05. 1. Sex :––––––––––.
2. Whether Married/Unmarried/Widow :––––––––––.
3. Number of children :––––––––––.
06. Educational/Professional qualifications :––––––––––.
07. The highest examination passed :
1. In Sinhala :––––––––––.
2. In Tamil :––––––––––.
3. In English :––––––––––.
08. If the applicant is a Deputy Registrar of the Court of Appeal of
Sri Lanka :
1. The date of appointment to the post :––––––––––.
2. Date of confirmation :––––––––––.
3. The post held prior to the appointment to that post :
––––––––––.
4. If the applicant is in the Public/Corporation service, the
post of first appointment and date :––––––––––.
5. Present annual salary :––––––––––.
(Particulars from 09 to 17 should be filled only by the
applicants who forward their applications as an Attorney-
at-Law)
09. 1. Date of enrolment :––––––––––.
2. Period in which the applicant actively practised. Dates
should be indicated :––––––––––.
3. General income earned by the profession during the last
year :––––––––––.
4. Courts which you frequently attend :––––––––––.
5. Names of three Judges of Courts where you frequently
appear :––––––––––.
6. If you have not actively practised, profession enggaged,
posts held, dates and annual salary subsequent to the
appointment as an Attorney-at-Law :––––––––––.
10. Personal income, if any :–
1. Source of income :––––––––––.
2. Annual income :––––––––––.
11. Have you been engaged in politics during the period of past 10
years :––––––––––.
12. Have you applied for this post before :––––––––––.
(If so indicate the year)
13. Do you pay income tax ? :––––––––––.
14. Names of two referees should be given below. Such referees
should be responsible persons who are known to you :
1. Name :––––––––––.
2. Post :––––––––––.
3. Address :––––––––––.
1. Name :––––––––––.
2. Post :––––––––––.
3. Address :––––––––––.
15. Is there any disciplinary inquiry or charge against you at present ?
Was there such inquiry or charge before ? Indicate the nature of
such charge :––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1326
16. Have you vacated the post other than resignation ? :––––––––.
17. If you have certificates of merit it should be indicated :
I am aware that particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and if any particulars found to be false or inaccurate
before the selection, I am liable to be disqualified and if detected
so after the appointment, I am liable to be dismissed without
any compensation.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... is functioning
in the post of ....................... in this Court/Department/Ministry/
Corporation and the particulars furnished by him/her are correct and
Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ can be released from the present post
if selected to this post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Post :––––––––––.
Official frank :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
07–952
–––––––––––––
VACANCIES  IN  THE  POST  OF
POLICE  CONSTABLE  DRIVER
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Police Constable Driver for the Special Task Force in the Sri
Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below, should be sent to Director (Recruitment),
Recruitment Office, 1st Floor, No. 375, Havelock Road, Colombo
06. The applications should be sent by registered post to the above
mentioned address to reach on or before 24.09.2010 and the top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications should be marked
“Post of Police Constable Driver in the Special Task Force” Delayed
applications will be rejected and no applications will be issued by
the Sri Lanka Police Department.
3. Salary Scale.– Recruit Police Constable Driver Rs. 171,360-
7 x 1,740 - 10 x 2,160 - 17x2,880 - Rs. 254,100.
In addition to the above salary scale they will be paid following
allowances :
(a) Special arduous duty I allowances :
Rs.
(1) For duties in operational area 1,200 0
(2) For duties in non operational area 600 0
(b) Special combined allowances :
Rs.
(1) For duties in operational area 10,500 0
(2) For duties in non operational area 5,600 0
(a) Free transport facilities.
(b) Free medical facilities to officers (Financial assistance
can be obtained for medical treatment even in a foreign
country)
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(d) Facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.
(e) Traveling expenses for duty and money will be granted
as rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
(f) Officers will be entitled for the special allowance which
are paid to the other officers in the STF, only during the
period they are attached to the STF consequent to the
basic training.
4. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age limit.– The age should be between 19 and 26 years as
at closing date as per the Gazette Notifications. However
Security Assistance (SA) who are serving in the Police
Department are eligible to apply up to 30 years on the
closing date of the applications.
(b) Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed 06
subjects not in more than 2 sittings including Mathematics
and Medium language in the G . C. E. (O/L) examination
those who have passed on two occasions should have
passed 5 subjects on the first occasion.
Note 01.– According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the number
of subjects passed at G . C. E. (O/L) both passes in
science subjects number 41 and 44 will be treated as
one subject and both passes in Mathematics number
42 and 45 will be treated as one subject. (They can't be
considered as four separate subjects taking into account
the number of subjects passed.)
Note 02.– Failure in the Technical subject at written test of
G. C. E (O/L) examination will be considered as failure
in the same subject although a pass has been obtained
for the same in the practical test.
Note 03.– Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of G. C. E.
(O/L), passes in any of these subjects will not be
computed as a pass in the G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
Applicants who fulfill the under mentioned qualifications will be
given a special consideration.
A course on motor mechanism in a Govt. or Govt. recognized
institution for a period of 03 years and working experience of 03
years in the same field.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1327
(c) Physical requirement :
Height : 5 feet 03 inches (minimum)
Chest : 30 inches minimum (deflated)
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided they have skills
in sports or have achieved best performance in sports
national level or they have earned reputation for Sri
Lanka by participating in an international competition.
(d) Trade Qualification :
(i) Certificate of competence in driving light or heavy vehicles.
(ii) At least, one year experience in driving motor vehicle after
obtaining the above certificate.
Note.– Priority will be given in case of knowledge of motor
mechanism, experience in repairs to vehicles and long
experience in driving vehicles.
If any applicant has deformity or any other physical
disability which impedes movement of physical limb
required for competence in driving will be disqualified.
Although he has obtained a medical certificate to the
effect that he is fit for the service.
The applicant who has basic qualification will be tested
for their ability for driving and maintain vehicles. Their
knowledge of road rules, traffic signals and basic
knowledge of mechanical theories of the vehicle in which
the applicant has achieved competence in driving will
also be tested.
(e) Visual Requirements.– Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye. If the vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18
with the other eye will  be accepted. Colour vision should
be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses
will not be eligible.
(f) Other Qualifications .– Applicants should be unmarried.
(Divorcees will be considered as married) This condition
will not apply for those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the Police
Department as the Security Assistants.
5. Method of Recruitment.– Selected applicants will have to pass
in the Basic Qualifications Test and those who have passed this test
can participate in the physical Test. That is the Endurance Test they
have to pass.
Recruit Police Constable Driver :
(1) 1,000 Metres - 3 Minutes 44 Seconds
* Those who are passed the fittness exam only will be called
for the final interview and those applicants getting 40% or
more marks in the final interview only will be called for the
Professional Test.
6. Professional Test :
6.1 Professional test will be held by the Deputy Director of
Police Driving School on the instructions of the Director,
Sri Lanka Police College.
6.2 100 marks have been allocated to professional test. The
test will be held as follows :-
(a) Eligibility to drive vehicles  - 50 marks
(b) Road rules manual - 25 marks
(c) Knowledge on maintenance of vehicles and ability to
attend to minor repairs - 25 marks
6.3 Professional Test.– Applicants who obtain a minimum of
25 out of the maximum marks of 50 allocated to the
eligibility of driving vehicle, a minimum of 12.5 out of the
maximum marks of 25 allocated to the knowledge on the
road rules manual, a minimum of 12.5 out of the maximum
marks of 25 allocated to the maintenance and attending to
minor repairs, thus obtaining a total of 50 out of total
marks of 100 allocated will be considered as having passed
the professional test.
Note.– Police Constable Drivers who are recruited should
obtain certificates to Drive Heavy Vehicles and pass he
Heavy Vehicle Driving Test conducted by the Police
College within the recruitment period.
7. Medical Examination. – Applicants who obtain the highest
marks with other efficiencies will have to appear for a Medical
Examination prior to the recruitment. Unsuccessful candidate will be
rejected for recruitment.
8. Backgrond Inquiries :
(a) Inquiries will be conducted on the character of the
applicants, close relations and friends. Applicants with a
bad background reports will not be recruited.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
recruitment, the applicant will be dismissed from the
service.
9. Implementation of the Official Language Policy.– As per the
circular dated 28.04.2007 of the Public Administration on No. 07/
2007 of the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
those who were appointed to the Central Government Service/
Provincial Public Service since 01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency
in other official languages within 05 years in addition to their language
of recruitment.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007, should pass
the Language Test conducted by the Official Language
Department.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1328
* The increment of those who fail to pass the second official
language within 5 years from the date of appointment will
be deferred until a pass is obtained.
10. Terms of Engagement.– This post is permanent appointees
come within the scope of the contributory Pension Fund Scheme.
11. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to a period of probations for
three years.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereafter be made to give
effect to the language policy of the government.
(c) They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code V olume I and II, Police Disciplinary
Code and any other orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time.
(i) Every officer will be required to pass the prescribed
Department tests. Those who fail to pass the
prescribed test or are found to be unfit for Police
duties will be liable for removal from the Police Service.
(ii) Prior to confirmation in the post of Police Constable
Drivers, in addition to (CI) Above, should pass the
test on driving of heavy vehicles conducted by the
Police College.
(d) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of the
I. G. Police, However, in terms of P. G . II No. 41 dated
28.02.1973 and I. G's Circular No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006
and 09.08.2007 (Amended), it is possible to marry showing
special reasons and with permission of the I. G . Police.
(e) Applicants on being appointed and after the training should
serve a probationary period of three years in the Police
Department, if they wish to resign from service before
their probation is over, they should sign an agreement of
consent to the effect that they are willing to pay at the
time of tendering their resignation, any amount which was
incurred on uniforms etc., The payment will decided by
the Director of Police Training College after calculation.
The acceptance of resignation should confirm to the Section
4 Chapter 5 in V olume I of the Establishment Code 1985.
(f) Police Constable Driver immediately after they have
commenced training at the Police Training College should
affirm/swear that they adhere to the Police Disciplinary
code in terms of the I. G. P . Circular No. 1693/2003.
(g) Post of Police Constable Driver who have been confirmed
in the post will have opportunities for promotions
according to the approved scheme of promotion of the
Police Department.
(h) No sooner they commencing the training of Police College,
subscribed the Oath of Allegiance to the Public service, in
terms of the I. G . P .'s Circular No. 1804/2004.
12. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointment to posts in the Police Service published
in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
13. Applicants should annex copies of following documents to
their application. (Originals must not be forwarded) –
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of Character (Obtained from
persons who are not related) ;
(iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or
other extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates of Service experience, (if available) ;
(vi) A photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
14. ( a) Applications from applicants who are already in the
Public Service/Services must be forwarded through the
Heads of their respective Departments and must be
accompanied by a certificate stating that the officers
can be released, if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their
own hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post
them, together with the copies of certificates called for
to the address given a paragraph 2 and under no
circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
15. Applications, which do not conform to the requirement
stipulated in this notification, will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No traveling or other expenses will be paid to applicants
who are summoned for the test and interview.
Dr. M
AHINDA BALASURIYA,
Inspector-General of Police.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
THE POST OF SPECIAL TASK FORCE POLICE CONSTABLE DRIVER
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Applicant Rank :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Copy of N. I. C. should be attached)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1329
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :––––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
(d) Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs :––––––––––.
(e) Telephone No. (if available) :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration (if by
registration attach copies of the certificate) :–––––––––.
If you are a citizen by birth, state the place of birth of,
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :–––––––––.
07. Age :––––––––––.
(as on the closing date of application given in the Gazette)
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
(Copy of Birth Certificate should be attached)
08. Height :
Feet :––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––––.
Chest :––––––––––. (inches)
09. Educational qualifications (State examinations passed and attach
copies of certficates) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of certificate) :––––––––––.
11. Whether married or single :––––––––––.
12. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) Are you a member of any Armed Force :––––––––––.
13. Have you any special claims and/or qualifications :–––––––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
15. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Police Service (if
so give reference) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Police or in the Sri Lanka Reserve
Police before ? :––––––––––.
(if so under what circumstances did you leave the service ?
give details)
16. Are you a member of the SL Police Reserve ? If so give date of
appointment, Rank and Number. Attach copy of the appointment
letter :––––––––––.
17. ( a) Are you serving in the any of the Armed Services ? (if so
your application must be submitted through the respective
Service Commander) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the any of the Armed Services ? (If so,
attach copy/copies of your discharge certificate/
certificates) :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving as a volunteer in any of the Armed
Services ? (if so your application must be submitted
through the respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served as volunteer in any of the Armed
Services ? (if so, attach copy/copies of your discharge
certificate/certificates) :––––––––––.
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged on arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offences ? (if so, give
details) :––––––––––.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any
offence ? (if so, give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable for
termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith (even
if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
07–821
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers belonging to posts of Document Assistants and School Data Entry
Operators recruited under the Ministry of Education - 2010
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination will be held by the Department of Examinations in November, 201 0 in
accordance with the approved Schemes of Recruitment relating to the officers belonging to the above Posts.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1330
02.(i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations of the Department of Examinations and the
candidates will be subjected to the rules and regulations stipulated by him relating to the examination conducted.
(ii) Rules and regulations stipulated for the candidates are separately printed in this Gazette. In the event of any candidate
violating these rules and Regulations he/she will be liable to a punishment to be imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
(iii) Applications for this examination can be forwarded only by the holders of the Posts of Documents Assistants and School
Data Entry Operators.
03. Applications.– Application should be in conformity with the specimen form appended to this notification. Application
should be prepared by using a A4 size paper with the items 01 to 05 appearing in the first page and the other items in the seco nd page.
Although the application can be typewritten it should be correctly and legibly filled in the candidate's own handwriting. Duly completed
application forms should be sent by the candidates under Sri Lanka registered post through their Zonal Director of Education/Pr ovincial
Director of Education/Head of Department addressed to the "Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta Battaramulla" to be received before 27th August, 2010. The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope. Applications which are not prepared in conformity with the specimen form, applications with incomplete
information and applications forwarded without the signature and official frank of the Head of the Department and as well as th ose
received after the closing date of applications will be rejected without any notification. It will be useful for the applicant to keep a copy
of the application with him. Applicant should verify whether the application completed is in conformity with the specimen form as
otherwise application is liable to be rejected. In preparing the application the name of the examination indicated in the heading should be
written in English in addition to Sinhala in the Sinhala applications and in English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil applicat ions.
04. Examination Fees. – Officers who appear for the whole examination or one subject should pay a sum of Rs. 400 as
examination fees to the credit of revenue head 2003-02-18 in the name of Commissioner General of Examinations at any District/
Divisional Secretary's office and the receipt obtained should be firmly affixed in the place provided for in the application. I t is not
necessary for the applicants to pay this examination fee when appearing for the first time and payments should be made as indic ated
above when they appear thereafter. It will be useful to keep a photo copy of the receipt with the applicant.
05. Identity of the candidates.– Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the Examination
Hall relating to every subject they appear in the examination hall. One of the documents indicated below will be accepted for t his
purpose :–
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the Department of Registration of Persons
2. A Valid Passport
Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the candidature of a candidate who fail to submit the above
documents will be the final decision.
06. An admission card and a copy of the examination time table will be issued by the Commissioner General of examinations to
the candidates whose applications have been accepted. Candidates appearing for the examination should submit their admission card with
their signatures duly attested, to the Supervisor of the examination hall. Permission will not be granted to sit the examinatio n without
submitting this admission card. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the candidates a news paper notification will  be
published to that effect by the Department of Examinations. If the admission card is not received even after the lapse of 2 or 3 days after
the publication of such notice candidates should notify the Department as indicated in the notification. It will be useful to n otify the
Department of Examinations by a letter of request with a certified photo copy of the application kept with the candidate along with the
registration receipt indicating a fax number to send the admission card when it is outside Colombo.
07. Candidates will be subjected to the rules and regulations stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations relating
to this examination. In the event of violating any rules and regulations he will be liable to a punishment imposed by the Commi ssioner
General of Examinations. Duty leave should be allowed by the Heads of Departments to the candidates who have been issued admission
cards by the Commissioner of Examinations to enable them appear for the examination. Traveling expenses will not be paid to the m.
08. Question papers may be answered in the Language medium the candidate was educated or the state language. The candidate
will not be allowed to change the language applied for by them. The Examination will be held only in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
09. This examination will be held only in Colombo.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1331
10. Examination Procedure :-
(Examination relating to the above posts will consist of the following subjects.)
01. Office Systems : Time 01 hour - 100 marks - 50 Multiple questions
02. Accounting systems : Time 01 hour - 100 marks - Out of five structured questions answers expected for four
questions.
03. Computer Test : Time 01 hour - 100 marks - 50 Multiple questions
11. Syllabus :
(1) Office Systems - (01 hour - 100 marks)
It is expected to test the basic knowledge relating to office systems used in Government Offices and ability for
practical use of such knowledge, ability to properly understand the official documents and thereby submit views/
observations by clear and precise minutes and ability to draft a letter according to the order given.
(2) Accounting Systems- (01 hour - 100 marks)
It is expected to assess the understanding and knowledge in basic accounts used in Government Offices and Cash
Books.
(3) Testing of Computer Literacy - (01 hour multiple question paper.)
Officers who have followed the Computer Courses of not less than 06 months Duration in an Institute registered
under the Ministry of Tertiary Education and V ocational Training will be exempted from this test.
The objective of this test is to examine whether the candidates are having the following skills :–
Basic concepts in Information Technology
Windows Operation System
File Management.
Word Processing :
Basic skills, familiarization, text editing
Text alignment, fonts, sub paras, change of space between lines, Tab settings, text serch
and placement.
Letters and grammar errors synonyms
Row setting page set up
Document printing Table creation, setting in order
File Management
Preparation of a document to be sent to several addresses
Macro Use.
Spread Sheet Basic skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges new inclusions and deletions
Data preparation in order
Graph setting
Printing
Function
Macro Use, File management
Introduction of Data Base - Basic skills
Creation and use of data base
Forms
Allied Forms, Popup forms dialogues and message boxes
Queries
Sorting in order
Obtaining reports
Macro use
Internet Introduction of Internet, Worldwide network, path finding Applied Internet
E-mail Mail response
Use of annexures, use of short terms to identify address Message compilation

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1332
12. The issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be treated as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications
required to appear for the examination.
13. Candidates can pass the 03 subjects of this efficiency bar test by appearing for the test in one instance or in several instances
and they should obtain a minimum of 40% of the marks for each subject.
14. Regarding any matter for which provisions have not been made by this notification the decision of the Secretary of the
Ministry of Education shall be the final decision.
SUNIL S. SIRISENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
'Isurupaya' Battaramulla.
07th July, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
F
IRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS BELONGING TO POSTS OF DOCUMENT ASSISTANTS AND SCHOOL
DATA ENTRY OPERATORS RECRUITED UNDER THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION - 2010
Index No :
(For Office Use)
Language Medium appearing for the examination :
(Please write relevant No. within the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name of candidate with initial at the end :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters Ex. : SUNIL, J. M. U.)
1.1 Names denoted by initials (In English Capital letters) :––––––––––.
1.2 Name in Full  :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No. :
02. Place of work and address :
2.1 Name of School/NCOE/T.C/Office :––––––––––.
2.2 Official address :––––––––––.
(In English Capital letters)
03. Post held at present :–––––––––.
(Please attach a certified copy of letter of appointment)
3.1 Reference number of letter of appointment :–––––––––.
3.2 Date of appointment :–––––––––.
04. Subjects appearing for :
Subject Subject No.
05. Please affix here the receipt for payment of fees to appear for the examination :
No. :––––––––––. Date :––––––––––.
For affixing the receipt (only if relevant)
Retaining a photocopy of the receipt will be usefull

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1333
I declare that the details indicated above are correct and that I am entitled to sit the examination in the medium as indicated above
and also I agree to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations relating to this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note : Candidate should sign in the presence of his/her Head of Department or an Officer authorized to sign on his behalf.
CERTIFICATION
Mr./Mrs./Miss ............. who is an officer in my Office/School/College of Education/Training College and who is known to me
signed in my presence on ............. 2010 and that the prescribed examination fee has been paid and the receipt for payment w as affixed
hereto.
––––––––––,
Signature and Official frank of the Officer who signed
(Zonal Director of Education/President NCOE.)
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department :
I certify that –
1. the details furnished above were verified.
2. a certified copy of letter of appointment is annexed hereto and
3. that the officer is eligible to sit this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature and official frank of the Officer who signed
(Zonal Director of Education/President NCOE.)
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
07–822
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment of Students for Training in the Professions Supplementary to Medicine – 2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka for recruitment to the Electro Encephalograph Recordist Traini ng
Course in the Professions Supplementary to Medicine in the Ministry of Health.
01. The eligible persons will be selected based on a priority list prepared on the Z Score marks of the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) Examination from 2003 to 2007.
02. Selection will be made based on district population ratio depending on the number of students to be recruited for training.
03. (i) Since this is a full-time course, the students who attend to other courses on 05 working days of the week and
forenoon on Saturday should not apply for this course.
(ii) If you had or have been registered with any University on any date you should get that registration cancelled by the
date you submit your application. (Although you have not attended or you are not attending lectures after regulation
with a university you are treated as a university student and therefore such applicants too should get their registration
cancelled.)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1334
(iii) If you have completed your degree in any university the effective date of that degree should be one earlier than that
of  the closing date of applications.
N. B.– You should note that any section of this gazette notification does not mean that you are necessarily selected and
admitted to the Electro Encephalographers Training Course because of the same reason that you have got your
registration with the university cancelled or that you have completed your degree in terms of para. 03 ii and 03 iii
above.
Also if you do not have secured an adequate Z-score value you will not become qualify to follow this training course
irrespective of the fact that you have got your registration with the universtiy cancelled or you have completed your
degree.
At the same time if you do not have fulfilled the requirements in paras. 03i, 03ii and 03iii above you will not become
qualify for this training course irrespective of the fact that you have secured an adequate Z-score value.
04. The period of training is one year.
05. Educational Qualifications :
5.1 G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including English, at not more than two sittings with Credit passes for Sinhala/
Tamil Language, Mathematics, Science and one more subject.
5.2 G. C. E. (A/L) Examination from 2003 to 2007 in 03 subjects at one sitting in Science Stream of subjects with a pass for
Physics and a Credit pass for Zoology/Biology including one of the following subjects (Botany, Agricultural Science and
Chemistry). It is compulsory that the Z-score value of the G . C. E. (A/L) should be included in the application.
06. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age at 31.08.2010.
(b) Should agree to serve in any part of the Island.
(c) Should be physically fit and healthy.
(d) Should be a resident for a period of 03 years within the district from which the applicant submit his/her application.
07. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared as per form of application attached to this letter. Applicant should affix stamps to the
value of Rs. 500 on the "Stamps Cage" in the application and cancel them by placing his/her signature.
(b) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education Service/
Government Accountants Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law or by a
Government Officer drawing a salary not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
(c) The applications perfected should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry of
Health, "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 31st
August, 2010. "Recruitment of trainees to the post Electro Encephalograph Recordist" should be written on the left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing applications.
08. Applications will not be acknowledged.
09. Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
10. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the notice will rejected.
11. Applicants, who have fulfilled educational and other qualifications above and submitted their applications through proper
channel, will be called for interviews. The applicants should submit originals of the following documents at the interview. The candidature
of those candidates who fail to submit originals of the relevant documents at the interview will be cancelled :–
(a) Certificate of Birth ;
(b) Originals of the educational certificates and in the absence of originals, the results sheet issued to external candidates or
the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1335
(c) Certificate issued by the Department of Examinations indicating the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination Z-score marks level ;
(d) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving License ;
(e) Grama Seva Certificate counter signed by the Divisional Secretary to confirm the residency of 3 years within the district.
12. Scheme of Training :
(i) Selected candidates will be admitted to the Relevant Training schools. Candidates should follow the course in English
medium.
(ii) The trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations in force within the Training Schools and other regulations
enforced from time to time by the Department of Health.
(iii) The training of those who fail in the examinations or whose work and conduct proved to be unsatisfactory or who fail
to comply with the conditions in their schools of training during the period of training is liable to be stopped at any time
without payment of any compensation.
(iv) The trainees will be paid Rs. 6,000 per mensum during the period of training.
(v) The trainees when entering into the Schools of Training should enter in to an agreement with the Director General of
Health Services to the effect that the trainee shall complete the training successfully without leaving the same and if
given an appointment after completion of training shall serve the Department of Health Services for a minimum of 10
years period. In the event he/she withdraws from the training or leaves the training or had to be discontinued from the
training as per para. (iii) above during the period of training, he/she shall refund to the Department the expenditure
incurred for the payment of allowances and other expenses borne by the Government during the period of his/her
training. Otherwise action will be taken to recover such expenses incurred by the Department as stipulated in the
agreement.
13. Terms of Engagement.– The Department is not bound to grant permanent appointments in the Public Service at the end of
the training. However, the trainees who succeed in the final examination will be given appointments to the Class III of the rel evant post,
depending on their merits. If only vacancies are available in the province of recruitment It is compulsory that they serve for two years in
the original station from the date of first appointment.
14. When filling in applications the educational and other qualifications should be entered with due care. Provided that
certificates so furnished were proved to be false or incorrect after recruitment for training or after giving appointments, act ion will be
taken to cancel the appointment or discontinue from the training dismiss from the service and also to blacklist their names and  there by
preventing them from re-entering to the Government Service.
15. The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination, to assure their physical and mental fitness to serve in any
part of Sri Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said medical examination will become disqualify to continue with their training.
16. All the officers so recruited will be subject to the provisions of the Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, policies enforced by the Department of Health Services, Financial and other regulations and rules and regulations
and orders enacted from time to time by the Government.
17. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition will be the final in respect of any issue arose out of the
recruitment to the training which does not cover by this Gazette Notification.
Dr. R
A VINDRA RUBERU,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo - 10,
07th July, 2010.
APPLICATION
R
ECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR ELECTRO ENCEPHALOGRAPH RECORDIST TRAINING IN THE PROFESSIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO
MEDICINE IN THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH  - 2010
01. ( a) Name with initials (in block capitals) :
(b) Name in full (in block capitals) :
02. Postal Address (in block capitals) :

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1336
03. (i) Permanent Address (in block capitals) :
(ii) District :
(iii) Are you a permanent resident in the District ? : Yes/No
(iv) If yes, how long ? :
04. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
Age as at 31.08.2010 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
05. Male/Female (Mark “ 3 ” in the relevant cage) :
Male
Female
06. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––.
(Mark “3 ” in the relevant cage) :
Yes
No
07. National Identity Card No. :
08. Are you married or unmarried :––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
(a) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination :––––––––––.
(Science subject only) (Please attach copy of mark list) :
Date of Examination :–––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––. Z-Score :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
First Sitting :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11
06. 12.
Second Sitting :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11
06. 12.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1337
10. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge ?
(Mark “3 ” in the relevant cage) :
Yes
No
If "yes" please furnish details :––––––––––.
11. Certificate of Applicant :
(a) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I am no t
undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified be fore
selection and to dismissal without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the selection.
"Stamp Cage"
–––––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––. Signature of applicant.
12. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ is personally known to me and he/she placed his/h er signature
in my presence on this day of ...................... 2010.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––––. (With official seal.)
Details of Attester :
Full Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
07–981
––––––––––––––––––
My No. AB/2A/74(1).
Sri Lanka Customs,
Colombo 01,
08.07.2010.
DEPARTMENT  OF  CUSTOMS
Examination for Recruitment to Class II of the Unified Customs Service
ON the results of the above examination conducted by the Commissioner of Examinations on 06th April, 1996 the following candidates were
appointed to Class II of the unified Customs Service with effect from 15th December, 1997 :
No. Name Address
1 Mrs. AGC Senevirathna No. 648/9, Muwanhelawatta, Talangama North, Battaramulla
2 Mr. JR Warnakulage No. 6, Dambugahawtta Road, Talangama North, Malabe
3 Mr. DKD Wijayaweera No. 57/40, Gemunupura, Pannipitiya
4 Mr. RC Wijesena No. 284/2, Kegalle Road, Polgahawela
5 Mr. S. Athukorala No. 71/6, Nawala Road, Nugegoda
6 Mr. CPG Punchihewa No. 412/13, Wanaguru Mawatha, Hokandara North, Hokandara
7 Mr. SD Abeysekara No. 141/3, Polhengoda Road, Colombo 05
8 Mr. JN Mirihagalla No. 47/33, Perera Mawatha, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
9 Mr. MWR Tissera No. 53/3, Kal-eliya Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-ela
10 Mr. AWGSS Weerakoon No. 87C, Udupila, Delgoda
11 Mr. PVM Fernando No. 150/11, Shanthi Mawatha, Battaramulla
12 Mr. DATR Warnakulasuriya No. 219, Nugegoda Road, Pepiliyana, Boralesgamuwa
13 Mr. KUD Senaratne No. 22A, Rupasinghe Mawatha, Nugegoda
14 Mr. WRP Wickramarathna No. 500/43C, Ruwanpura, Aggona, Angoda
15 Mr. KPSAP Weligepola No. 875, "Sandya Nivasa", Waragoda Road, Sinharamulla, Kelaniya

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1338
16 Mr. WKAPC Abeysinghe No. 76/3A, Edirisinghe Road, Mirihana, Nugegoda
17 Mr. B. Wanniarachchi No. 41/01, De Zoysa Road, Panadura
18 Mr. JS Jayasekera No. 6, Sri Bodhi Road, Gampaha
19 Mr. LIN Perera Thanayamwatta, Bandaragama
20 Mr. KBL De Silva No. 132/1/F, Arewwala, Pannipitiya
21 Mr. P . Wijenayake No. 240/16, Mahawatte Road, Talangama Nroth, Battaramulla
22 Mr. JAKK Pradeep No. 344/5, Ekamuthu Mawatha, Talangama North, Battaramulla
23 Mr. WAS Kumara No. 152E, Kaluwala Road, Ganemulla
24 Mrs. BAH Karunaratne No. 376/9, Susiri Uyana, Himbutana Road, Angoda
25 Mr. WPAF Gunasekera Negombo Road, Nagoda, Kandana
26 Mrs. HHJ Wickramasinghe No. 51, Abeygunaratne Mawatha, Pamburana, Matara
27 Mr. ADN Ariyapala No. 15/110, Ceylinco Homes, 1st Lane, Kandy Road, Kelaniya
28 Mr. SMMK Siriwardena No. 20, Galwalawatta, Peradeniya
29 Mr. GMTN Wijesena No. 254/1A, Nidahas Mawatha, Battaramulla
30 Mr. WDM Fernando No. 6/2, Indurugalla, Wathuregama
31 Mr. ASN Pathinisekera No. 102/05, Weralugahawatta, Kapuwatta, Ja-ela
32 Mr. A Priyantha "Champa", Halugama, Mirigama
33 Mr. MDPM Perera No. 264/A/2, 6th Lane, Shanthipura, Talawathugoda
34 Mr. UDMO Deepani No. 60/2, Balasooriya Mawatha, Hapugoda, Kandana
35 Mr. RS Weerasiri No. 77, Walana Road, Walana, Panadura
36 Mr. SPW Pathirana No. 391, Andurathwila, Poddala
37 Mr. HAS Wimalakeerthi Wiekland Watta, Uluvitike, Galle
38 Mr. HDG Sumathipala No. 485, Wijayasiri Niwasa, Mampe North, Piliyandala
39 Mr. SDA Kumarasiri No. 59/L/15, "Sisilasa", Padmaperuma Mawatha, Galahitiyawa, Ganemulla
40 Mr. BSP Medagama No. 29, Gnanarathana Mawatha, Dehiwala Road, Pepiliyana
41 Mr. RALK Ranasinghe No. 72A, Templer's Road, Mt. Lavinia
42 Mr. NPP Ratnayake No. 16, Alubogahawatta, Anderson Road, Dehiwala
43 Mr. PI Udaya No. 15, Peiris Road, Mt. Lavinia
44 Mr. WSC Wickramasekera No. 42, Battaramulla Road, Ethul Kotte
45 Mr. S Shanmugarajah No. 43, Hunupitiya Road, Wattala
46 Mr. RPAS Balasooriya No. 119/6, Ihala Imbulgoda, Imbulgoda
47 Mr. B Meerigama No. 41/3G , Black Pearl Estate, Meegoda
48 Mr. MMDMB Munasinghe Samagi Mawatha, Makandura, Gonawila
49 Mr. SB Polkotuwa No. 09, Mahabage Junction, Mattumagala, Ragama
50 Mrs. MWS De Silva No. 222/3A, Pataleerukkararama Road, Wekada, Panadura
51 Mrs. CS Wickramaratna No. 120, New City Gardens, Gedabuwana New Road, Piliyandala
52 Mr. DGIU Gonawala No. 15, Samadana Mawatha, Makola North, Makola
53 Mr. SAU Indrajith No. 89, Galle Road, Kuda Payagala, Payagala
54 Mr. GSB Marasinghe No. 369/1C, Pinthaliya Road, Pahala Biyanwila, Kadawatha
55 Mr. PHUI Wijepala No. 211A, IR Perera Mawatha, Alubomulla, Panadura
56 Mrs. RADPC Kulasinghe No. 13, Rohana Mawatha, Subuthipura, Battaramulla
57 Mr. DSP Thilakeratna No. 186/2A, Borella Road, Depanama, Pannipitiya
58 Mr. WMP Amaranayaka Araliya Mawatha, Thibbotugoda, Pokunuwita
59 Mr. LM Kumarpeli No. 209/1, Biyagama Road, Kelaniya
60 Mr. MRK Lenagala Kavudumunna, Dambadeniya
61 Mr. SS Ravipriya No. 189/54, Galroda Road, Pahala Karagahamuna, Kadawatha
62 Mr. K. Rajapaksha No. 34A, Quarry Road, Mirihana, Nugegoda
63 Mr. MB Rampala No. 412/13/1, Sumithuru Uyana, Pahala Imbulgoda, Imulgoda
64 Mr. AWLC Weerakoon No. 206F, Pattiyawatta Road, Kotalawala, Kaduwela
65 Mr MK Wijekulasooriya No. 10/139, Pitakanda Road, Kandy
66 Mr. AU Jayakodi No. 733/21, Silver Valley watta, Korale-ima, Gonapola Junction
67 Mr. ND De S. Jayasinghe No. 39/2A, St. Rita's Road, Mt. Lavinia
68 Mr. KLP Kumara No. 406, Nallawatta Road, Maharagama
69 Mr. KJ Dharmasena Bangalawatta, Dewalegama, Kegalle
No. Name Address

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1339
No. Name Address
70 Mr. MKU Gamini No. 270, Pinthaliya Road, Pahala Biyanwila, Kadawatha
71 Mr. YMS Kumara No. 53/3/B/2, 4th Lane, Hansagiri Road, Gampaha
72 Mr. IN Ekanayaka No. 1325/9A, Bogahawatta Road, Pannipitiya
73 Mr. TAAM Karunaratna No. 927/18A, Sewana Pedesa, Udawatta Road, Malabe
74 Mr. SMBMMPK Premaratna Erick Batik, Kandy Road, Kalagedihena
75 Mrs. KBOV Wijesekera "Wijaya Sri", Samagi Mawatha, Elpitiya
76 Mr. PWAC Weeramen No. 44/A, Makola South, Makola
77 Mr. S Mohomed Ashrof No. 28, Nicholoya Road, Old Poilce Lane, Rattota
78 Mr. CL Ambagahawatta No. 33/E/32, Mihindu Mawatha, Malabe
79 Mr. DMKT Dahanayaka Pahalagama, Pothuhera
80 Mr. SACP Kumara No. 32, De Soyza Road, Colombo 02
81 Mr. PK Arachchi No. 1037/4, 3rd Lane, Perakumba Place, Malabe
82 Mr. NS Kumanayaka Isuru Mawatha, Hiththetiya, Matara
83 Mr. KN Sooriyarachchi No. 369/1D, Pinthalaiya Road, Kadawatha
84 Mr. WLC Thilakasiri No. 31/B, 4th Lane, Sarabhumi, Madapatha Road, Piliyandala
85 Mr. KN Shunmugathasan No. 210/16, Governor's Park, ASP Liyanage Mawatha, Wattala
86 Mr. AADN Amarasinghe No. 112, Mahabellana, Alubomulla
87 Mr. JJ Abeysiriwardena No. 35, "Asoka", Dambarawa, Pillewa, Kandy
88 Mr. JC Abeywardena No. 498, Naduhena, Meegoda
89 Mr. SD Rajapaksha No. A7, Matha Road, Manning Town, Colombo 08
90 Mr. H. Guruge No. 31/2/2, Girton School Lane, Nugegoda
91 Mr. MK Premadasa No. 136/3, Mahabodhi Mawatha, 9th Mile Post, Kadawatha
92 Mr. PKBKA Pallawala No. 52/C, Pahalagama, Gampaha
93 Mr. LAA Rupasiri No. 224A, Jaya Mawatha, Kadawatha
94 Mr. HMNS Rajaguru No. 303, Katugastota Road, Kandy
95 Mr. AHR Samantha No. 74/7, Makola Road, Kiribathgoda
96 Mr. EKC Senerath No. 500/45, Ruwanpura, Agogona, Angoda
97 Mr US Widanagama No. 45, Karunathilake Mawatha, 9th Lane, Thalangama North, Battaramulla
98 Mr. KPWH Karunathilaka No. 21D, Summit Flats, Keppetipola Road, Colombo 05
99 Mr. S Selvakumar No. 18-3/1, 37th Lane, Colombo 06
100 Mr. WADBK Abeysekera No. 95/B, Kandy Road, Dalugama, Kelaniya
101 Mr. TDC Dharmapriya No. 31/1B, 2nd Lane, Ambagahamulla, Boralesgamuwa
102 Mr. GCP Gamage No. 21/5A, Palugama, Dompe
103 Mr. HMKP Herath No. 342/3, School Lane, Kalapaluwawa, Rajagiriya
104 Mr. PADP Perera No. 240, Raddoluwa, Seeduwa
105 Mr. YMP Premachandra B-130, Imbulahena, Panakawa, Kegalle
106 Mr. GKN Perera No. 32/3, Thalahena, Negombo
107 Mr. MAA Shantha No. 292E, Annasiwatta Road, Galahitiyawa, Ganemulla
108 Mr. WACJK Wijesundara No. 33/E/3, Mihindu Mawatha, Malabe
109 Mr. IOV Weerasinghe No. 26/12A, Old Kottawa Road, Mirihana, Nugegoda
110 Mr. PL Wanigasinghe No. C21, Matha Road, Mannining Town, Colombo 08
111 Mr. UN Dusantha No. 214C, Pannipitiya Road, Thalawathugoda
112 Mr. RNC Weerasinghe No. 94, Ellakkala.
S
UDHARMA KARUNARA TNA,
Director General of Customs.
07–868/1
–––––––––––––
My No. : AB/2A/74(1).
Sri Lanka Customs,
Colombo 01,
08th July, 2010.
DEPARTMENT  OF  CUSTOMS
Examination for Recruitment to Class II of the Unified Customs Service
ON the results of the above examination conducted by the Commissioner of Examinations on 06th April, 1996 the following candidates were
appointed to Class II of the Unified Customs Service with effect from 15th January, 1998 :

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2010
1340
No. Name Address
1 Mr. Shan Abeydheera No. 4/5, Koswatta, Kiribathgoda
2 Mr. AC Karunaharan No. 218/2 1/1, Galle Road, Mt. Lavinia
3 Mr. MSZ Fayik No. 33, Roly Fernando Mawatha, Katubedda, Moratuwa
4 Mr. S Jeyakanthan No. 119-1/2, W. A. Silva Mawatha, Colombo 06
5 Mr. S Luckman No. 56, Dr. Britto Babapulle Road, Colombo 14
6 Mr. A Gnanamohan No. 81-2/2, Manning Place, Colombo 06
7 Mr. ALM Safeer No. 46/20, Asiri Mawatha, Kalubowila, Dehiwala
8 Mr. MIM Muhuris No. 133/1, Kawdana Road, Dehiwala
9 Mrs. S Nadesan No. 53, St. Mary's Road, Colombo 15
10 Mr. A Sadagoban No. 65A, Hena Road, Mt. Lavinia
11 Mrs. NUK Banagala No. 385/1/2, Shanthi Mawatha, Kirillawala, Kadawatha.
S
UDHARMA KARUNARATNA,
Director General of Customs.
07–868/2
–––––––––––––
My No. : AB/2A/74(1).
Sri Lanka Customs,
Colombo 01,
08th July, 2010.
DEPARTMENT  OF  CUSTOMS
Examination for Recruitment to Class II of the Unified Customs Service
ON the results of the above examination conducted by the Commissioner of Examinations on 06th April, 1996 the following candidates were
appointed to Class II of the Unified Customs Service with effect from 30th July, 1998 :
No. Name Address
1 Mrs. NUK Banagala No. 385/1/2, Shanthi Mawatha, Kirillawala, Kadawatha
SUDHARMA KARUNARATNA,
Director General of Customs.
07–868/3
––––––––––––
CORRECTION
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to Follow a Pre-service Professional Course in Teacher Education - 2011
NOTICE published in Gazette No. 1,662 of 09.07.2010 is amended to read as "The closing date of application is 06.08.2010" instead of "The
closing date of application 30.07.2010".
SUNIL S. SIRISENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
21st July, 2010.
07–1028
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.