

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 05.01.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2052$32 - 2018 ckjdß ui 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'01'05
No. 2052/32 - FRIDAY,  JANUARY 05, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
ANNOUNCEMENT   UNDER   SECTION  76A  OF  THE  LOCAL  AUTHORITIES   ELECTIONS  ACT  (CHAPTER  262)
SUSPENSION  OF PROPAGANDA  ACTIVITIES,  48 HOURS  BEFORE  THE  POLL  DAY
AS it is the responsibility of the Elections Commission to conduct free and fair elections in accordance with  Article 104B(1)
of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and the said  is empowered to issue directives in order
to overcome the obstacles to the conduct of elections be held under the Local Authorities Elections Act (Chapter 262) as
amended by Local Authorities Elections (Amendments) Act, No. 22 of 2012, it is hereby announced that the following
directives accordingly are issued by the Commission.
1) Following actions which would promote or prevent the election of any Party or Independent Group or candidate
are prohibited to be committed during the period of 48 hours before the poll day.
(a) Any form of propaganda meetings ;
(b) House to house campaign to solicit votes ;
(c) Distributions of handbills or notices ;
(d) Displaying or fixing  flags, banners, notices, pictures, or photographs for the purpose of promotion  or
prevention of the election of any Party, Independent Group or candidate, in any vehicles except  the vehicle
in which the candidates are travelling, at residences, non-resident buildings, temporary huts, empty lands,
public places or any place visible to the public.
(e) Display of propaganda materials through print media, electronic media, social media or telephones ;
(f) Propaganda through loudspeakers ;
(g) Propaganda on the pretext of performing religious rites ;
(h) Display of  notices, photographs, picture, flags, banners or decorations  in the residence which is used by
the candidates as the office.
1A   PG  3869 — 207  (01/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 05.01.2018
2A
2) House to house distribution of handbills for the purpose of soliciting votes
A Limited access is granted to the candidates for the purpose of visiting house-to-house soliciting votes, during
the period from the last date of nominations and 48 before the poll day.
(a) As it is prohibited to conduct processions or rallies to promote candidates during the election period the
candidates are allowed to visit houses with a maximum 10 persons. However it should not be a procession
or a rally.
(b) It is prohibited to visit houses with any instrument that generates or amplifies sound. It is further prohibited
to carry propganda notices, flags, banners etc, during these visits.
(c) Policy statement of the Party or candidates can be delivered to the voters in the form of hand bills, but it
is prohibited to carry posters or banners. The photographs of the candidates (along with the photographs
of all candidates, if necessary) may appear in the policy statement. These handbills should not be prepared
as notices that could be displayed. They should neither be used as notices.
(d) Handbills should be distributed without any disturbance to the general public and without using amplifiers
at public places.
(e) Names and other details of the printer and publisher should appear on the handbills and such handbills
should not contain any hate statements or statements that generate religious, linguistic, ethnic or caste
disharmony.
(f) Non-adherence to these conditions is a violation of directives and this permission to do house-to-home
visit could be withheld on notice to the party/group or candidate at any time they are violated.
03) Establishment of  notified campaign offices by Political Parties and Independent Groups contesting the election.
(a) The Political Parties and Independent Groups contesting the election are granted a conditional approval to
maintain a notified central  campaign office for each Local Authority and for each of the polling division
when a Local Authority is comprised several polling divisions and a notified branch office for each of the
wards during the period from the final day of nominations period and 48 hours before the poll day. subject
to the instructions and restrictions imposed as appropriate, by the Election Commission, It is hereby
notified that any such office which breaches the said instructions, restrictions and conditions or engages in
any action that is inconsistent with the election law or injurious to the public, shall be treated as unlawful
campaign office and shall be dealt with in terms of the provisions of the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance.
(b) A conditional approval is also granted to maintain the residence of the candidates contesting for the wards
or whose names appear in the additional nomination list as a campaign office subject to the instructions
and restrictions imposed by the Election Commission. It is also notified that maintaining campaign offices
even at the owned residencies shall be in compliance with the election law and the conditions imposed by
the Election Commission and in such manner without causing any inconvenience to the public.
MAHINDA D ESHAPRIYA N. J. ABEYESEKERE S. RATNAJEEV AN H. H OOLE
Chairman Member Member
Election Commission Election Commission Election Commission
On this 05th day of January 2018,
Elections Secretariat,
Sarana Mawatha,
Rajagiriya.
01-808
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.