

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.12.2012
2517
2517
wxl 1"790 - 2012 foieïn¾ 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'12'21
No. 1,790 – FRIDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2520
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2520
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th January, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th
December, 2012.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
24th, December, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,789 of 14.12.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.12.2012
2518
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.12.2012
2519
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.12.2012
2520
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 22nd Jan uary,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
04th December, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Additional Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Udunuwara Yatinuwara Division General, District Secretariat,
(Kandyan/General) Pilimatalawa Area Kandy.
12–582
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class II,
Grade II of Sri Lanka Architects' Service - 2013
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri
Lanka for recruitment to Class II, Grade II of Sri Lanka Architects'
Service. Number of vacancies is 11.
1. The term "Secretary" in this notification shall mean the Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs. The term
"service" shal mean Sri Lanka Architects' service.
2. Method of Recruitment.– An equivalent number of the posts
expected to be filled will be called for an interview on the order of the
merit of the total marks obtained at the examination, out of the
applicants who score above 40 for all the subjects at the written
examination and qualified applicants will be recruited.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.12.2012
2521
Date of the examination.– The examination will be held in Colombo
on March 2013. The Secretary reserves the rights either to cancel or
postpone this examination subjected to the instructions of the Public
Service Commission.
3. Number and effective date of the appointments will be
determined on the order of the Public Service Commission.
4. Service Conditions.– A selected candidate will be appointed to
Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Architects' service subjected to the
general conditions governing appointments in the Public Service
(published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 888/2 dated 12.09.1995) and the terms
and conditions set out in the minute of the Sri Lanka Architects'
Service and any amendments made or to be made hereafter to the
minute. Officers should pass the first efficiency bar examination
within 3 years from the date of appointment and second efficiency
bar within 6 years from the date of appointment. Further, they are
required to acqurie the proficiency in second official language as per
Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007 dated 28.05.2007 before
the lapse of 5 years from the date of appointment).
4.1 Appointemnts of candidates who fail to report for duty
on the due date and/or refuse or evade to take up duties in
a post or in an area they are appointed to, are liable to be
cancelled.
5. Structure and monthly salary scale .– As per salary scale SL
1-2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 dated
25.04.2006 monthly salary scale :
SL 1 - Rs. 22,935 - 10x 645 - 8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
Recruitment will  be made by this examination to Class II,
Grade II of Sri Lanka Architects' Service.
6. Health and Character .– A candidate must satisfy the Secretary
that he is duly qualified in respect of health and that he has an
excellent moral character. He must possess good eye sight and be
physically fit for service in any part of the island. Selected candidates
will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
7. Qualifications.– Candidates who apply for the examination :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should have possessed a degree in Architecture from a
university recognized by the University Grants
Commission ;
(a) The effective date of the degree shall be  a date on or
before 21.01.2012.
(iii) Should be not less than 18 years and not mroe than 35
years of age as at 21.01.2013 ;
(iv) Maximum age limit will not be applied to those who are
already holding a permanent and pensionable post in the
Public Service and have completed full professional
qualifications ;
(v) Should be of excellent character and physical health ;
(vi) No person ordained in any religious sect shall be
permitted to sit this examination.
Note.– Requisite qualifications for this examination should
have been completed in every aspect by 21.01.2013.
8. Examination fee.– The fee is Rs. 1,000. It should be paid before
the closing date of applications at any District Secretariat/Divisional
Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the
Department of Examination. The receipt obtained from any District
Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat should be pasted to the relevant
cage in the application form. This fee is non-refundable. It is advisable
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
9. Method of Application :-
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by
the candidate himself on paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (A-4)
using both sides. It should be specially noted that the
application forms should be so prepared that cages 1.0 to
2.11 appear on the first side of the paper and cages 2.12
to 5.0 appear in the other side of the paper and remaining
cages in the third page. Candidates should fill the
application in his own hand writing. Applications that do
not comply with the specimen and that are not complete
in every aspect, shall be rejected without notice. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy to the application with
candidate. Candidates should be satisfied to the effect
that the application is strictly in accordance with the
specimen in the examination notification. If otherwise the
application will be rejected.
(b) The application should be in the language in which the
candidate intends to sit the examination. When preparing
applications the name of the examination should strictly
be indicated in English in the applications filled in Sinhala
language. Further, applications filled in Tamil language
should bear the name of the examination in English
language.
(c) The completed application form for the examination should
be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner-
General of Examination, (Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch) Pelawatta, Battaramulla before
21.01.2013. The words "Open Competitive Examination
for Recruitment to the Class II, Grade II of Sri Lanka
Architects' Service 2013" should be clearly indicated on
the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclsoing the
application. Any application received after the closing
date will not be accepted.
Note .– Candidates who apply for open competitive
examination whilst in Public Service/Provincial Public
Service should submit their applications through the
Head of Department/Head of Institution.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.12.2012
2522
(d) Any application, which is not complete in every aspect,
is liable to be rejected. No complaint that an application
has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
(e) A notice will be published in the newspapers by the
Department of Examination as soon as Admission Cards
are issued to applicants. If the admission card is not
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement.
It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the
time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the
receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration
and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of
request furnishing a fax number to which the admission
card should be sent.
(f) Candidate's signature in the application form should have
been attested by a Principal of a Governemnt School, a
Justice of the Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-
at-law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed
Forces, an Officer holding a gazetted post in the Police
Service or an officer holding a permanent post in the
public service whose annual initial salary is more than
Rs. 240,360.
10. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all persons whose applications have
been received. A candidate presenting himself for the
examination must produce his Admission Card to the
Supervisor of the Examination Center. A candidate who
fails to produce his Admission Card will not be permitted
to sit the examination. The decision of the Commissioner
General of Examinations on holding the examination and
issuing results will be the final.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him/her under his/her index number. every
candidate must get his/her signature on the admission
card attested in advance and hand it over to the Supervisor
on the first day he presents himself for the examination. A
set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published
at the beginning of the Gazette. Candidates are subject to
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations on conducting the examination
and decisions in respect to the issuance of reulsts. Further,
they are liable to be subject to a punishment imposed by
him for breach of these rules.
(c) The post and the service station of the candidates at the
time of application for the examination should be
applicable for all the activities relating to the examination
and any change occurred to the above after submission of
applications will not be considered.
Note.– The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does
not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
11. Identity of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the
following documents will be accepted :-
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
12. Penalty for furnishing false information. – If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to during or after the examination. If it is found that a
candidate has furnished information with knowledge that they are
false or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be
liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions given
by the Public Service Commission.
14. Scheme of Examination.– Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in SInhala, Tamil and
English. The language medium of examination indicated
initially shall not be allowed to change subsequently.
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in
which he has obtained the qualifying degree or in an
official language.
Note :
(i) The term "qualifying degree" in (b) aboe refers to the
degree qualifications referred to in paragraph 7(ii).
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in
one and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language
medium of the examination, indicated in the application.
15. Written examination.– A written examination in the following
subjects :
1. Intelligence Test - Marks 100 - Duration 1 hour
2. General Knowledge - Marks 100 - Duration 2 hours
16. The selection for appointment will be made in order of merit
from among those who have sat the written examination (Presenting
oneself at the interview should not necessarily mean that he or she
has fulfilled requisite qualifications for an appointent to be awarded).

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.12.2012
2523
17. Syllabus :-
(i) Intelligence Test (Duration 1 hour - 100 marks)
This question paper is designed to measure the ability of
candidate on critical reasoning, analyzing problems,
making decisions and judgment. The question paper will
consist of 50 multiple choice questions and questions
which require short answers.
(ii) General knowledge (Duration 2 hour - 100 marks)
This question paper is designed to test the candidate's
awareness and understanding of the political, social,
cultural and economic factors of Sri Lanka and scientific
and economic development at national and international
level. The question paper will consist of two parts. The
first part will consists of 50 multiple choice questions.
Part two will consist of 25 questions which require short
answers.
18. In case of an inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts. The Sinhala text shall prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
2012.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For office use only)
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS II,
GRADE II OF SRI LANKA ARCHITECTS' SERVICE - 2012
1.0 Medium :
Language medium of examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
* The application should be filled in the same language in
which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
2.0 Personal information :
2.1 Name with initials in English block capitals :––––––––.
Example : SILVA, A. B.
2.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.3 Name in full  :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Permanent address  :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals. Admission card will be posted
to this address)
2.5 Permanent address  :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.6 Postal city  :–––––––––––.
2.7 Telephone number :
2.8 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.9 Civil status :
Single - 1
Married- 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.10 Ethnic group :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil  - 3,
Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.11 National Identity Card No. :
2.12 Date of birth :
Year : Month :   Date :
2.13 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months :   Days :
3.0 (i) Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––.
(Please read para. 7 of the notification carefully to see
whether you are qualified in this respect)
(ii) University/Institute :–––––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number :–––––––––––.
(iv) Internal/External :–––––––––––.
(v) Degree :–––––––––––.
(vi) Subjects :–––––––––––.
(vii) Class :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.12.2012
2524
(viii) Upper/Lower :–––––––––––.
(ix) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(x) Language medium of examination :–––––––––––.
4.0 Paste the cash receipt properly here.
Paste the receipt of the examination fee.
(It is advisable to keep a photocopy)
5.0 Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of
my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed the receipt No.
.................. dated ............... being the payment of the examination
fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior
to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible
according to the regulations of this examination. Further, I agree to be
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner General
of examinations on conducting the examination and decisions in
respect to the issuance of results.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
6.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature : (Para 9(f) of the Gazette
Notification) :
I hereby certify that ........................... (Full name) who submits
this application is known to me personally, he/she has paid the due
examination fee and has affixed the receipt and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on..................
––––––––––––––,
(Signature of the Officer attesting the signature).
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer Attesting the signature :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
7.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the
personal file) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................... who is
submitting this application has earned all salary increments during
the period of 5 years prior to .................. (except the increments
which require passing of service or departmental tests), has not been
subjected to any disciplinary punishment (Except warnings), the
particulars furnished in the application have been found correct
according to available records, he/she is eligible to sit for this examinatin
as per regulations stipulated in this Gazette Notification, he/she has
affixed the receipt of examination fee and that he/she signed this
application before me.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
Head of Department/Authorized Officer.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
12–607
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.