

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
989
989
wxl 1"678 - 2010 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'10'29
No. 1,678 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th November, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st
October, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 934
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 990
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Tamil version of this Gazette is separately printed.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
990
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
SABARAGAMUWA   PROVINCIAL   PUBLIC   SERVICE
COMMISSION
The Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the
Post of Community Development Officer – Grade II in the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service
APPLICATIONS are called from the permanent residents within
the Sabaragamuwa Province who possess the following qualifications,
for the recruitment to the post of Community Development Officer
– Grade II in the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service.
02. The prevalent number of vacancies are seven and this number
is subject to change in less or more on the occasion of recruitment.
03. The required qualifications for applying :–
(i) The applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should possess a good physical health and good moral
character ;
(iii) The age should be not less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years as at the closing date (The upper age limit is
not applicable to those who are presently employed
permanently in the Public Service or Provincial Public
Service) ;
(iv) The applicant should be a permanent resident within the
authoritative area of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council
for at least Three (03) years from the six (06) years period
immediately prior to the closing date of application.
(v) Educational Qualifications :
Should possess a degree from a recognized university :
Note.– Preference will be given to those who have following
qualifications :
(a) A degree in Development, Social Science, Geography
or Media ;
(b) Aptitude on Community Development activities ;
(c) Ability to Leadership and Organizational related
activities ;
(d) Ability to address the meetings in Sinhala/Tamil/
English languages.
04. Salary Scale.– Rs. 16,720 - 10 x 320 - 11 x 365 - 15 x 450 -
Rs. 30,685 (in accordance with Pub. Ad. Circular No. 6/2006(iv)).
05. The procedure of applying and the relevant information :
(i) A prepared application according to the specimen given
at the end of this notification by using both sides of a
paper in size of A4 (21 x 29cm) should be forwarded by
getting certified the signature as mentioned below in 05(iv).
The application should be prepared to appear paragraphs
1-11 on page 01 and the rest of the paragraphs on Page
02. The closing date of application is 17.12.2010.
The applications should be sent to, Secretary, Provincial
Public Service Commission, Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Council Complex, New Town, Ratnapura. The
applications should be sent by registered post and on the
top left hand corner of the envelope should mention “The
Post of Community Development Officer”. If the
applicant is employed in the Public Service or Provincial
Public Service, his/her application should be sent through
the head of the Department to reach on or before the
closing date of application. Applications which are not
sent through their respective Heads of Departments are
subject to be rejected. Any documents along with the
application should not be sent.
(ii) Each applicant should pay an examination fee of Rs. 300
for the competitive examination. The examination fee can
be paid to any Ministry or Department (except Local
Government Institutions) or to any Divisional Secretariat
within the Sabaragamuwa Province and the receipt issued
for it should be affixed to the relevant place in the
application. This examination fee shall be deposited to
credit to the Revenue Head No. 2003-90-01 of
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council and this fee is not
refundable due to any reason.
(iii) The  language medium of the examination. – The
examination is to be held in the languages, Sinhala, Tamil
and English and it is not allowed to change the language
medium mentioned in the application.
(iv) Receiving of Applications.– Receipt of the application is
not acknowledged. An admission card will be issued for
the applicants who are eligible for the above said post.
Those who have not received an admission card within 07
days in advance to the due date of examination, inquiries
should be done by the applicant mentioning the following
particulars to the Secretary of the Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Public Service Commission.
* Name of the examination ;
* Name of the applicant ;
* The post office where the letter was registered,
Registration No. and date.
The applications received after the closing date of
applications, the incomplete applications, the applications
without having paid the examination fee to credit to the
Revenue Head of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council
or the applications without having affixed the paid receipt
of the examination fee, the applications which are
incomplete with the relevant qualifications will be rejected.
The applicant should satisfy by himself about the
“

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
991
eligibility gained by him before the closing date of
application according to the aforesaid notification.
Permitting to sit for the examination is not considered as
a privilege to accept the qualifications relevant to the said
post. The venue of examination will be decided by the
quantity of applications.
(v) Certification of the applicant's signature.– The signature
of the applicant should be certified by a principal of a
Government School/Justice of Peace/Commissioner of
Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Commissioned Officer of any
one of the Three forces or any permanent officer who
draws annual consolidated salary not less than Rs. 230,700
in the public service or Provincial Public Service.
06. Selection Procedure.– Applicants those who fulfil the basic
qualifications will be directed to sit for a competitive examination
and qualified persons will be selected by an interview from those
who get the highest merit of the examination and according to the
ratio of population in the District of Ratnapura and Kegalle from
those who have permanent residency in the particular district in
terms of Public Administration Circular No. 15/90. If any problem
arise regarding the selection, final decision in this regard will be taken
by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Commission. Final
decision regarding the filing of vacancies will be taken by the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Commission.
07. Written Examination. – The written examination will be
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations/The
Secretary of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Commission
and the examination will comprise of one question paper :–
1. Service and Legal Conditions of Local Government
Institutions : (Duration - 02 hours) :
Services carried out by the Local Government Institutions
to the people of the relevant area and legal conditions
regarding the carry out of the services (It is expected to
have a good knowledge regarding the by-laws and rules
relating to the performance of services and Municipal
Council and Town Council Ordinance, Acts of Pradeshiya
Sabha and other Acts that utilize to carry out the services).
(Total marks for the paper is 100 and to get eligibility (to
pass) should get at least 40 marks or above)
The Admission Card of the Examination and the National
Identity Card or Valid Passport should be produced to
the supervisor to prove the identity of the applicant at
the time of the examination. Further, applicants should
adhere to the regulations and conditions of conducting an
examination.
08. Regulations on Employment. – This post is permanent and
possess a pension. It is essential to contribute to the Widow/Widower
and Orphans Pension Fund. The employe is liable to complete Three
(03) years probationary period and should subject to the rules and
regulations imposed in the Establishment Code and the Financial
Regulations and the orders given from time to time by the Department
and the Government and the Provincial Public Service Commission.
09. Other Facts.– After holding the examination based on the
highest marks scored at the examination, it is essential to submit the
relevant documents which can be proved the information furnished
in the application to be true by you, when you are called for an
interview including the district you applied and the permanent
residence in the particular district. It causes to cancel the candidature,
if wrong or false information is included in the application and after
the appointment, if it is revealed that the applicant has forwarded
wrong or false information, he/she is liable to dismiss from the service.
When any matter arisen which is not included based on rules and
regulations and orders in the notification in this regard, the authority
in taking decision is determined by the Provincial Public Service
Commission.
B
ANDULA A. NAGASINGHE,
Secretary (Actg.),
Provincial Public Service Commission,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
Provincial Public Service Commission,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council Complex,
New Town,
Ratnapura,
07th October, 2010.
SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION
A
PPLICATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER CLASS II
Index No. :
(Office Use only)
01. Name with initials :
(i) In English :––––––––––.
(ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
02. Full name of the applicant :
(i) In English :––––––––––.
(ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
03. The Postal Address of the applicant :
(i) In English :––––––––––.
(ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
04. Applicant’s permanent district of residence :
05. Sex :
(Female – F, Male – M)
06. The medium of language appearing for the examination :
(Sinhala/Tamil/English)
07. The district in which the applicant sit for the examination :
(Ratnapura/Kegalle)
08. Date of Birth :–––––––––.
Age as at 17.12.2010 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'29
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2010
992
09. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
10. (i) Educational Qualifications :
(a) Name of the degree and the subjects :––––––––––.
(b) Date of validation of the degree certificate :––––––––––.
(c) Name of the University :––––––––––.
(ii) State if there is any qualification under Section 03(v) of
the notification of calling applications :––––––––––.
11. Mention the following particulars regarding the district of
permanent residency :
(i) Name of the Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
(ii) The time duration of the permanent residence in the
Sabaragamuwa Province as at 17.12.2010 :––––––––––.
12. If the applicant was employed in the Public Service or
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service and expel or resign from
it for any reason, mention the post, name of the serving
department and reason for the resignation :––––––––––.
13. Whether you were convicted for any offence, indicate in detail :
––––––––––.
14. The information about the payment of Rs. 300 for the
examination fee that was credited to the revenue of the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council :
The date of payment :––––––––––.
The office which the payment was done :––––––––––.
The number of the receipt :––––––––––.
(The paid receipt should be pasted to the application)
This is to certify that the above mentioned particulars furnished
by me are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I know for
certain that according to the rules and regulations of the above
examination, it is liable to cancel my candidature before the examination
or aftermath and dismiss if it is revealed that the false information
has been furnished by me.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
ATTESTATION OF THE CANDIDATE'S  SIGNA TURE
This is to certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... who is
personally known to me, put his/her signature in my presence on
...........
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––.
Post and the rubber stamp :––––––––––.
If the candidate is being employed in the government or in the
Provincial Public Service the certificate mentioned below should be
certified by the Head of the Department or an empowered officer :
(i) This is to certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................. who is
serving in the post of ....................... since .................. in
this Department, has earned all the increments of the
salary, not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment
against his/her except advices and all the particulars
furnished in the application are true and accurate.
(ii) I further certify that if he/she is selected to the aforesaid
post, the applicant can be/cannot be released from the
present post he is now employed.
–––––––––––––,
Head of the Department/Institution
empowered officer.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Department/Institution (Please place the rank seal) :––––––––––.
10–912