

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 96]
————————
Presented by the Hon. Kanaka Herath, M.P. for Kegalle District
on 09th March, 2011
(Published in the Gazette on February 14, 2011)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-2d
2-
MONERAGALA DISTRICT KANTHA MAHA
SANGAMAYA (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Moneragala District Kantha Maha Sangamaya

<!-- page 2 -->

1Moneragala District Kantha Maha
Sangamaya (Incorporation)
2—PL 005469—  80 (02/2011)
Preamble.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  M ONERAGALA  DISTRICT
K ANTHA  MAHA  SANGAMAYA
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Moneragala District Kantha Maha Sangamaya”  has
heretofore been established for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Association according to the rules
agreed by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application.
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Moneragala District
Kantha Maha Sangamaya (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Moneragala District Kantha Maha Sangamaya” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Maha Sangamaya”) or shall hereafter be
admitted as members of the “Moneragala District Kantha
Maha Sangamaya”  shall be a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession
under the name and style of the “Moneragala District Kantha
Maha Sangamaya”  and by that name may sue and be sued in
all Courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) to function as a forum for organizations of women
in the Moneragala District;
Incorporation
of
Moneragala
District
Kantha Maha
Sangamaya .
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Moneragala District Kantha Maha
Sangamaya (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to maintain an information center on children and
women;
(c) to assist and intervene during all adversities faced
by women and in vulnerabilities due to the loss of
husband;
(d) to set up a Trust Fund for activities of women;
(e) to make women politically conscious and make
them representatives in the management of local
resources;
(f) to make women actively contribute in small groups
to a culture of savings and loan schemes;
(g) to provide assistance for self employment, loans,
equipment, clothing and other financial support
for women in need with low income;
(h) to assist poor women to obtain legal aid and legal
instructions where necessary;
(i) to grant aid and provide welfare facilities to women
suffering from mental and physical disabilities and
to old women;
(j) to print, publish and distribute books, magazines,
leaflets, newspapers and journals and to establish
and maintain libraries;
(k) to conduct exhibitions, discussions, training
workshops, debates, tours considered as necessary
for the promotion of the objects of the Corporation
and to organize and maintain them;
(l) to provide equipment and welfare facilities
necessary for weddings and funerals of women;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Moneragala District Kantha Maha
Sangamaya (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(m ) to work in close collaboration with local or foreign
governmental and nongovernmental organizations
to provide relief during situations of distress faced
by women;
(n) to maintain training programs required for
improving knowledge of women of Sinhala,
English and Tamil languages, computer literacy
and knowledge on vocations; and
(o) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary
for the accomplishment of all or any of the objects
of the Corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any written
law, the Corporation shall have the power, including the
following powers to do, perform and execute all such acts,
matters and things whatsoever as are necessary or desirable
for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation or any one of them:—
(a) to acquire and hold, rent, lease, mortgage, pledge,
sell, exchange or engage in other manner or
otherwise dispose of any immovable property,
required for the purpose of the Corporation;
(b) to  enter into, perform and execute all such
agreements or contracts necessary for the purpose
of accomplishing the functions or to execute the
powers of the Corporation either directly or through
an officer or an agent of the Corporation who is
duly authorized by the Corporation;
(c) to request for, receive and collect grants and
donations in cash or otherwise;
(d) to invest the funds of the Corporation and to
maintain current or saving accounts in any bank;
30
General
Powers of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Moneragala District Kantha Maha
Sangamaya (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(e) to obtain loans or invest the monies required for the
purpose of the Corporation in a manner stipulated
as appropriate by the Corporation and with
guarantees deemed appropriate;
(f) to publish or take action to publish books, journals,
magazines and other documents and to establish
and maintain libraries, bookshops, and presses; and
(g) to appoint, employ, transfer and dismiss officers and
servants required for realizing the objects of the
Corporation and to maintain disciplinary control
over them  and to stipulate terms and conditions as
regards their service;
(h) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary,
incidental or beneficial to fulfill and accomplish
the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall, subjects to the rules of the Corporation for the time
being in force, be administered by an  Executive Council
consisting of not more than twenty seven members as may
be provided for in such rules and elected in accordance  with
such rules including the Executive Chairman,  Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer, Administrative Secretary, eleven
organizers and eleven Administrative Secretaries of regional
organizations.
(2) The founder member of the Maha Sangamaya,
Hon. Minister Sumedha G. Jayasena shall be the first
executive Chairman of the Executive Council.
(3) The First Executive Council of the Corporation  shall
consist of the members holding office in the Maha Sangamaya
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation to make
rules with regard to the matters listed below for or any of
them from time to time, at any general meeting of the
R ules of the
Corporation.
Management
of the
activities of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Moneragala District Kantha Maha
Sangamaya (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of
the members present and voting to make such rules, as are
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law:—
(a) the election, appointment or nomination of
members of the Executive Council, their powers,
functions and their term of office;
(b) the powers, conduct, role and functions of various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(c) the procedure to be adopted in convening and
holding the meetings of the Corporation and the
Board of Management, the time, venue, notices,
agenda, quorum and the general conduct of such
meetings;
(d) qualifications and disqualifications for the
membership of the Board of Management of the
Corporation ;
(e) administration, management and custody of the
assets of the Corporation and maintenance and
auditing of its funds and accounts;
(f) general administration of the Corporation and
realization of its objects.
(2) Any such rule when made under subsection (1) above,
may at a like meeting and in like manner be altered, added
to, amended or rescinded.
(3) The rules of the Corporation in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, be deemed to
be rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The members of the Corporation shall be subjected to
the rules of the Corporation for the time being.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Moneragala District Kantha Maha
Sangamaya (Incorporation)
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts.
5
10
15
20
25
30
7. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Chairman and either the Administrative Secretary or the
Treasurer who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence, and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Maha Sangamaya
existing on the day preceding the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation
hereby constituted and all debts due, to and all subscriptions
and contributions payable to, the Maha Sangamaya on that
day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this
Act.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
gifts, dispositions, donations, subscriptions, fees or grants
accepted for and on behalf of the Corporation hereinafter
shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or
more banks.
(2) All monies required for settling the expenses incurred
by the Corporation in implementing and executing the
powers, duties and functions under this Act shall be settled
from the Fund.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
 In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
payable to
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Moneragala District Kantha Maha
Sangamaya (Incorporation)
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Protection of
the rights of
the Republic
and others.
5
10
15
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such  institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by such institute.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other Association or
Associations having objects similar to the objects of the
Corporation, and which is or are, by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such Association or Associations shall
be determined by the members of the Corporation at, or
immediately before, the time of the dissolution of the
Corporation.
12. Nothing  contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from, or
under them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
20
25

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Moneragala District Kantha Maha
Sangamaya (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AW ATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.