

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 15.01.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2054$7 - 2018 ckjdß ui 15 jeks i÷od - 2018'01'15
No. 2054/7 - MONDAY,  JANUARY  15, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  1A   PG  3885— 507 (01/2018)
L.D.B 24/1951(xiv)
THE   MOTOR  TRAFFIC  (CHAPTER  203)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation under Section 237 read with Sections 5, 19, 140,
141 and 142 of the Motor Traffic Act, (Chapter 203)
NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILV A,
Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation.
Colombo,
15th January, 2018.
Regulations
1. These regulation may be cited as the Motor Traffic (Quadricycle) Regulations, No. 03 of 2018.
2. Every owner of a quadricycle who uses such quadricycle for the purpose of transportation of persons and
goods for hire or otherwise shall ensure that, the doors of the quadricycle is fully closed while in motion.
3. An owner of a quadricycle shall ensure that-
(a) the heigth of the quadricycle shall be less than one hundred and fifty percent of the width ;
(b) the ratio of wheel base and the ground clearance shall be less than eight ;
(c) right hand driven proper mechanically sound steering mechanism other than  a mechanism with levers is
fitted to the vehicle ;
(d) steering mechanism operated by a steering wheel is fitted to the vehicle ;
(e) the support of all seats of a quadricycle allowed for each adult shall be fitted firmly in position with at
least a seating area of 382 millimteres measured in a straight line along the front edge of each seat ;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 15.01.2018
2A
Provided however, a seating area of at least 230 millimeters measured in a stright line along the front edge of
each seat shall be allowed for each children ;
(f) the shortest distance between the front edge of the driver seat of a quadricycle and vertical plane passing
through the nearest edge of the panel shall not be less than 300 millimeters ;
(g) the shortest distance between the front edge of the passenger seats of a quadricycle and vertical plane
passing through the nearest point of the back rest of a front seat shall not be less than 230 millimeters ;
(h) the minimum clear distance between the back rest of any consecustive two seats fitted on the quadricycle
shall not be less than 660 millimeters ;
(i) the seats facing each other shall not be fitted to a quadricycle ;
(j) hydraulic foot brake mechanism shall be fitted to the quardricycle.
4. The speed limit of the quaricycle shall be 50 kilometers per hour.
5. The owner or driver of a quardricycle shall not permit any person to distribute any advertisement, leaflet or
hand bill whicle such quadricycle is in motion on the road.
6. The driver of a quadricycle which is in motion or parking shall not use or shall not cause to use any instruments
or equipment emanating sound so as to distrub or annoy other road users. The sound shall be regulated to ensure that it is
confined within the quadricycle and inteded for the hearing only of its passengers.
7. (1) An owner or driver of the quadricycle shall ensure that-
(a) a speedometer is fitted to the quadricycle to clearly indicate at all times to the driver the speed at which the
quadricycle is driven ;
(b) electrically or electronically operated windscreen wiper is fitted for the driver of the quadricycle to obtain
an unobstructed view of the front of the quadricycle ;
(c) the quadricycle shall be fitted with four pneumatic tyres of the same size and to carry at least one spare
wheel and other devices to fit a wheel quickly to an axle, while the quadricycle is used on a road.
(2) An owner of the quadricyle shall ensure that the following components are fitted to the quardricycle and
are in good and working condition
(a) two exterior rear view mirrors ;
(b) head lamps with the head and dip beams and indicator ;
(c) tail or stop lamp ;
(d) side direction indicator ;
(e) reverse lamp ;
(f) two interior lamps ;
(g) parking lamps ; and
(h) horn.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 15.01.2018
3A
8. Where the quadricycles is used for the purpose of carrying passengers or goods for fee or reward :
(a) the following information shall be displayed behind the driver’s seat to be clearly visible to passengers
(i) vehicle registration number ;
(ii) name and driving license number of the driver ;
(iii) a photograph of the driver (size 65x60 millimeters)
(vi) telephone number of the respective police stations where the vehicle is registered to inform in the
case of emergency ;
(b) the driver of the quadricycle shall -
(i) behave in a proper orderly manner ;
(ii) not smoke ;
(iii) not terminate until the point of termination of the hire ; and
(iv) carry passengers to their destinations safely by the shortest possible route within the sortest time
unless otherwise requsted by the passenger.
9. (1) Every owner of a quadricycle who uses the quadricycle for transport of persons or goods for hire or
otherwise shall fix a taxi meter which shall be operated at all times of the hire and shall fix a display board on front end the
roof exceeding 10 centimeter height to display the term “taxi” for passengers easy and clear view.
(2) Upon the payment of such fare, it shall be the duty of the driver of such quadricycle to issue a receipt to that
effect. Such receipt shall include the distance travelled, vehicle registration number, amount charged and date of receipt.
10. An owner of a quadricycle shall ensure that not letters, figures or digits except descriptive information
marked thereon by the manufacturer on the front and rear of the quadricycle.
11. In these regulations “quadricycle” shall have same meaning as in the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203).
02-31
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.