

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 37.75  Postage  :  Rs. 12.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 11, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 10th February, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
BANKING (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  2  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005 1
2 —H 22849—4,675 (09/2005)
[Certified on 10th February, 2005]
L.D. —  O. 30/2000.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  BANKING  ACT , NO . 30 OF  1988
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka  as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Banking (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2005.
2. Section 2 of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988
(hereinafter referred to as the "principal enactment") is hereby
amended in subsection (3)  of that section by the substitution
for the words " provisions of this Act" of the words "provisions
of this Part" .
3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of
that section and the substitution therefor of the following
subsections:—
“(2) Every application  for a licence shall be accompanied
by —
(a) in the case of a company to be formed for the purpose
of carrying on banking business—
(i) a copy of the draft Memorandum of
Association and the Articles of Association of
the company to be formed or the draft
Constitution or any other document
associated with the formation of such
company; and
(ii) a statement containing the names, addresses,
occupations and qualifications of the persons
proposed as Directors, and if a Chief Executive
Officer has been identified, of such officer;
Short title.
Amendment
of section 2 of
Act, No. 30 of
1988.
Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
(b) in the case of a company formed before the date of
the application and which intends to commence
banking business,—
(i) a copy of the Memorandum of Association
and the Articles of Association of such
company or the Constitution or any other
document associated with the formation of
such company, together with the proposed
amendments, if any, to such documents; and
(ii) a statement containing the names, addresses,
occupations and qualifications of the Directors
of the company and any Directors proposed
to be nominated or appointed and of the Chief
Executive Officer of such company;
(iii) a copy of the audited balance sheet and profit
and loss account of the company for the
preceding three years;
(c) in the case of an application by  a company or body
corporate incorporated outside Sri Lanka, such
company shall in addition to the documents
specified in paragraph (b) submit—
(i) a written undertaking supported by a
resolution of the Board of Directors of such
company or body corporate, stating that such
company or body corporate, as the case may
be, shall on demand by the Central Bank,
provide such funds as may be necessary to
meet all obligations incurred in or in
connection with, its business in Sri Lanka;
and
(ii) a report containing such information as may
be determined by the Monetary Board, from
the regulatory authority of the country in
which such company or body corporate is
incorporated.

<!-- page 4 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005 3
 
(3) On receipt of an application under subsection (1) by
the Monetary Board, the Director of Bank Supervision may,
where such Director considers it necessary, require the
applicant to furnish to the Monetary Board such other
documents, information or other particulars, in order to
determine whether a licence should be issued or not.
(4) Where on consideration of the documents,
information and particulars submitted to the Monetary Board
under subsections (1), (2) and (3) and on such further
investigations as it may consider necessary, the Monetary
Board is satisfied that the application may be approved in
principle, it may issue a Letter of Provisional Approval to the
applicant. On receipt of the Letter of Provisional Approval,
the applicant shall take all preliminary measures as may be
required in terms of such Letter, prior to the issue of a licence
under section 5, and specified in such Letter.
(5) The Letter of Provisional Approval issued under
subsection (4) shall be valid for the period stated in such
Letter. Such period shall however not exceed twelve months
from the date of issue of such Letter and the period of validity
may only be extended by the Monetary Board in writing, in
exceptional circumstances.
(6) The Monetary Board shall cause a copy of each Letter
of Provisional Approval issued under subsection (4) and of
any communication extending the period of validity of such
Letter under subsection (5), or any withdrawal in terms of
subsection (7), to be sent to the Registrar of Companies.
(7) The issue of Letter of Provisional Approval under
subsection (4) shall not bind the Monetary Board to issue a
licence under section 5 to the company or the company to be
formed for the purpose of carrying on banking business
(hereinafter referred to as a "proposed company"), in respect
of which the Letter of Provisional Approval has been issued,
and the Monetary Board may, on the basis of investigations

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
carried out by it under subsection (10) withdraw such Letter
or refrain from issuing a licence under section 5 on any one
or more of the following grounds :—
(a) that the Monetary Board is not satisfied with the
suitability of the company or the proposed company
to be issued, with a licence;
(b) that the company or proposed company has not
complied with the conditions stipulated in the Letter
of Provisional Approval have not been complied
with;
(c) that the company or proposed company has not
complied with the requirements under this Act for
the issue of a licence ;
(d) that any information contained in the application
for a licence or any information submitted in
connection therewith by the company or proposed
company is found to be false or incorrect; or
(e) that there has been, in the opinion of the Monetary
Board, a sufficiently significant change in the
economic and the banking environment of the
country that warrants the suspension of the issue of
licence under section 5:
Provided however, the Monetary Board shall before
withdrawing a Letter of Provisional Approval issued  in terms
of the provisions of this subsection to an applicant in terms
of subsection (4), or if a decision is taken by the Monetary
Board under this subsection to refrain from issuing a licence,
give sufficient notice in writing to the applicant stating the
grounds for such withdrawal or decision to refrain from issuing
a licence and shall afford him an opportunity of being heard.
(8) A company or a proposed company in respect of
which a Letter of Provisional Approval has been issued under
subsection (4) shall not commence banking business before
the issue of a licence  under section 5. Every advertisement,

<!-- page 6 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005 5
prospectus, notice or other publication issued by the company
or proposed company before the issue of the licence shall be
required to specify that it has not been issued a licence to
carry on banking business under the Act.
(9) A licence shall not be issued under section  5 to a
company formed and incorporated under the Companies Act,
No.17 of 1982 unless —
(a) the company is a public company;
(b) the Memorandum of Association of the company
sets out as its primary object, the carrying on of
banking business as defined in this Act; and
(c) the Memorandum of Association of the Company
restricts the other forms of business the company
may carry on, if any, to any or all of the forms of
business specified in Schedule II to this Act.
(10) (a) The Monetary Board may, at any time prior to
the issue of a licence under section 5, conduct such
investigations as it may deem necessary to satisfy itself as to
the suitability of the company or proposed company  to be
issued with a licence, having regard to the interests of the
national economy, including the banking needs of Sri Lanka.
 (b) At an investigation conducted under paragraph (a) the
Monetary Board may require the applicant to satisfy the Board
on any matter relevant to the suitability of the company or
the proposed company and in particular —
(i) the validity and acceptability of the
documents and particulars submitted by the
applicant;
(ii) the financial status and history of the
company or the proposed company;

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
   (iii)the financial standing, experience and
suitability of the Directors, Chief Executive
Officer and such other officers of the company
performing executive functions as may be
determined by the Monetary Board or the
persons proposed to be appointed to such
positions in the proposed company, as the case
may be;
(iv) of the adequacy of the capital of the company
or based on the information furnished by the
applicant on behalf of the proposed company,
the ability of the proposed company to raise
adequate capital;
(v) of the ability of the company or the proposed
company to cover all obligations and
liabilities incurred in the conduct of business
in Sri Lanka and to comply with the provisions
of the Act;
(vi) the applicant's compliance with the
provisions of the Act or any directions given
under the Act in relation to the application for
a licence under the Act.
(11) Any person who submits information or particulars
in an application for a licence or in any other document
submitted in connection therewith or in the course of any
inquiry or investigation conducted to ascertain the suitability
of the company or the proposed company to be issued with a
licence under this Act, which to the knowledge of the person
is false or misleading in any material particular, shall be guilty
of an offence under this Act.”.
4. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the following section substituted therefor :—
5. (1) Where the Monetary Board is
satisfied that a licence may be issued to a
company or a proposed company to carry on
banking business, it may, with the approval of
“Issue of
 licence.
Replacement
of section 5
of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005 7
the Minister, issue a licence  to the company or
proposed company to carry on banking
business in Sri Lanka subject to such terms and
conditions as may be imposed by the Monetary
Board.
(2) The licence issued under subsection (1)
shall specify —
(a) whether it authorizes the company to
carry on domestic banking business or
off-shore banking business or both such
businesses;
(b) the place or places or the area within
which such banking business may be
carried on; and
(c) the terms and conditions subject to which
such licence is issued.
(3) Every licensed commercial bank shall display a copy
of the licence issued to it under subsection (1) in  a
conspicuous place at its principal place of business in Sri
Lanka and each of its branches.”.
5. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the following section substituted therefor:—
9.    (1) Where the Monetary Board is satisfied
that any licensed commercial bank has —
(a) failed to commence business within nine
months of the issue of the licence under
section 5; or
(b) failed to pay any debts incurred by it, on
such debts becoming due; or
(c) had a petition or action for relief filed
against such licensed commerial bank,
Replacement of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.
“Notice of
cancellation
of licence
issued to a
licensed
commercial
bank.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
and has had appointed in respect of such
bank under any bankruptcy law or any
other law which provides for relief of
debtors or which relates to debtors, a
liquidator or receiver; or
(d) ceased to carry on banking business; or
(e) contravened any provisions of this Act or
any direction, order or other requirement
imposed under the Act; or
(f) furnished false, misleading or inaccurate
information    or   documents  to  the
Monetary Board or in the case of a
proposed company the applicant for the
licence has furnished such information
or documents in connection with its
application for the licence; or
(g) carried on, or is carrying on, its business
in a manner likely to be detrimental to
the interests of its depositors,
the Monetary Board may give notice that it
would cancel the licence issued to such bank
and shall communicate such notice to such
licensed commercial bank.
(2) A licensed commercial bank may tender
objections in writing to the Monetary Board
against the notice of intended cancellation
under subsection (1), within fourteen days of
the date of receipt of such  notice, giving
reasons why the licence issued to it under
section 5 should not be so cancelled.
(3) The Monetary Board may, within thirty
days from the last date for tendering objections
under subsection (2), after considering the
objections if any, tendered to it under that

<!-- page 10 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005 9
subsection and after hearing the licensed
commercial bank in support of its objections,
either withdraw the notice given under
subsection (1) with or without conditions or
cancel the licence issued to the licensed
commercial bank, and shall notify the bank in
writing accordingly.
(4) A licensed commercial bank aggrieved
by a decision of the Monetary Board made
under subsection (3) to impose conditions on
the withdrawal of the notice given under
subsection (1) or to cancel its licence, may within
fourteen days of the date of receipt of the
notification given under that subsection, appeal
against such decision to the Court of Appeal.
(5) Until rules are made under Article 136
of the Constitution relating to appeals under
this section, the rules made under that Article
relating to the hearing of applications by way
of revision to the Court of Appeal, shall apply
to every appeal made under this section.
(6) The Court of Appeal may on appeal
made to it under subsection (4) confirm, reverse,
modify or set aside the decision against which
the appeal is made and may make any other
order as the interests of justice may require.
(7) Without prejudice to subsection (1), the
Monetary Board may, where it is satisfied that
any licensed commercial bank incorporated
outside Sri Lanka has had its licence or authority
to operate in the country in which such bank
was incorporated cancelled or withdrawn by
the appropriate authority or regulatory body of
that country, cancel the licence issued to the
bank under this Part and shall notify the bank
accordingly.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
(8) (a) A cancellation of a licence of a
licensed commercial bank under subsection (3)
shall take effect—
(i) where the bank does not prefer an appeal
against such cancellation under
subsection (4), on the expiration of the
period for tendering such appeal; or
(ii)where an appeal has been preferred
against such cancellation, on the
confirmation of the decision of the
Monetary Board by the Court of Appeal
or the Supreme Court, as the case may be;
(b) A cancellation of a licence of a licensed
commercial bank under subsection (7), shall
take effect from the date of the receipt by the
bank of the notification under that subsection.
(9) Where a cancellation of a licence of a
licensed commercial bank has taken effect under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of subsection
(8), the Monetary Board shall, as soon as
possible publish once in the  Gazette in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages and once in a
Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspaper
circulating in Sri Lanka, a notification of the
cancellation of such licence.”.
6. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsections (2), (3) and (4) of that
section and the substitution therefor of the following
subsections :—
“(2) Where the cancellation of a licence of a licensed
commercial bank incorporated or established within Sri
Lanka by or under any written law for the time being in
force, has taken effect under paragraph (a) of subsection
Amendment of
section 11 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 12 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200511
(8) of section 9, proceedings for the compulsory winding-
up of the licensed commercial bank shall commence in
accordance with the provisions of Part VIII of this Act.
(3) Where the cancellation of a licence of a licensed
commercial bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka has
taken effect under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
subsection (8) of section 9, the Director of Bank
Supervision shall forthwith inform the head office of such
bank to honour the written undertaking submitted under
paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3  and take such
steps as may be necessary to enforce such undertaking
and to close down the business of the bank in and with
respect to Sri Lanka, in accordance with the provisions of
Part VIII of this Act.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 9 or
any other written law for the time being in force, the
Monetary Board may, in any of the circumstances referred
to in paragraphs (a) to (g) of subsection (1) of section 9
without proceeding to cancel the licence issued to a
licensed commercial bank in terms of section 9, make order
which may include any one or more of the following :—
(a) directing the licensed commercial bank to suspend
its business in Sri Lanka, and in the case of a
licensed commercial bank incorporated or
established within Sri Lanka, to immediately
suspend its business outside Sri Lanka for such
period as is specified in such order subject to such
conditions as the Monetary Board may stipulate:
Provided that prior to such suspension, written
notice shall be served on the licensed commercial
bank, of the decision of the Monetary Board
along with its reasons therefor, to suspend the
business of such bank. The bank shall also be
afforded an opportunity of being heard on such
matter either orally or in writing, within a period
of time which shall not be less than three working
days as shall be specified in such notice;

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
(b) requiring the licensed commercial bank which
has been required to suspend business under
paragraph (a) to hand over all books, records and
assets of that licensed commercial bank to the
Director of Bank Supervision;
(c) requiring the licensed commercial bank to
forthwith take or refrain from taking any action
or to do or refrain from doing any act or thing as
the Board may consider necessary in relation to
the business of such bank;
(d) appointing a fit and proper person to advise such
bank with regard to the proper conduct of the
business of such bank;
(e) restraining any director, manager or controller of
the licensed commercial bank from carrying out
any function in or in relation to the bank and
appointing a fit and proper person to carry out
such functions, in or in relation to, such bank;
(f) for the assumption of control of, and for the
carrying on of the business of such bank by the
Monetary Board or for delegating the control so
assumed to another person in order to carry on
the business of the bank;
(g) for the re-organization of such bank, by arranging
for the increase of its capital or reconstituting its
board of directors or both such measures;
(h) providing for such arrangements as are necessary
for the amalgamation of such bank with any other
licensed commercial bank that consents to such
amalgamation; and
(i) vesting the business of the licensed commercial
bank in another licensed commercial bank which
consents to such vesting and for the provisions

<!-- page 14 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200513
of Part VII A to apply to such vesting, as if the
licensed commercial bank whose business is
vested is a defaulting bank and the licensed
commercial bank in which the business is vested,
is an acquiring bank:
Provided, however that any measures taken
under this section shall not preclude the
Monetary Board from subsequently proceeding
under section 9 where the Monetary Board is of
the opinion that it is in the interest of the
banking system to do so.
(5) Notice in writing of any measures taken
under subsection (4) shall be given to the
licensed commercial bank and to any director,
manager or controller referred to in paragraph
(e) of subsection (4) and such measures shall
become effective from the date of the receipt of
such notification or such other date as may be
specified in the notice.”.
7. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section —
(i) by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereof, and the
substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:—
"(c) for a licensed commercial bank to
acquire the business or part of the
business of another licensed commercial
bank or a licensed specialised bank or
of any branch of another licensed
commercial bank or of a branch of a
licensed specialised bank;";
(ii) by the repeal of paragraph (d) thereof and the
re-lettering of paragraph (e) as paragrapgh (d)
thereof ;
Amendment of
section 12 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
   (iii) by the addition, immediately after the
relettered  paragraph (d) of that subsection, of
the following paragraph:—
“(e) for the merger or consolidation of a
licensed commercial bank or a branch
thereof with any other licensed
commercial bank or a licensed
specialised bank.”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)
thereof, of the following new subsections:—
“(1A ).  Application for approval of an
acquisition under paragraph (c)  of subsection
(1)   or a merger or consolidation under paragraph
(e) of subsection (1) shall include —
(a) a statement of the nature of the
acquisition or merger or consolidation,
as the case may be;
(b) a copy of the proposed agreement, if
any, under which the acquisition or
merger or consolidation, as the case may
be, is to be effected; and
(c) such other particulars and documents
as may be prescribed.
(1B ) An approval under paragraph (c) of
subsection (1), or paragraph (e) of subsection
(1), or subsection (1C ) shall not be granted, unless
the Monetary Board is satisfied that such
acquisition or merger or consolidation is in the
interest of promotion of a  safe, sound and stable
banking system, and the fair competition
prevailing in the banking industry. When
granting approval for an aquisition under
subsection (1C ), to an individual or a corporate
body, the Monetary Board shall, in determining
whether such individual or the directors of such
corporate body as the case may be, are fit and
proper persons, have regard to the criteria set out
in subsection (2) of section 42.

<!-- page 16 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200515
(1C ) (a) An individual,  partnership or corporate body
shall not, either directly or indirectly or through a
nominee or acting in concert with any other individual,
partnership or corporate body, acquire a material interest
in a licensed commercial bank incorporated or
established within Sri Lanka by or under any written
law without the prior written approval of the Monetary
Board given with the concurrence of the Minister.
(b) Without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (2) of this section, approval under paragraph
(a) of this subsection may be granted subject to terms
and conditions as the Monetary Board may deem fit.
(c) A licensed commercial bank shall not enter in
the register of members of the bank as the holder of
shares of the bank, the name of any individual,
partnership, corporate body, or nominee who or which
has contravened the provisions of paragraph (a).
For the purpose of this subsection—
 “acting in concert” means acting pursuant to an
understanding (whether formal or informal) to
actively co-operate in acquiring a material
interest in a licensed commercial bank so as to
obtain or consolidate, control of that bank.
“material interest” means the holding of over ten
per centum of the issued capital of a licensed
commercial bank carrying voting rights.”.
8. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof, and the
substitution, therefor of the following subsection :—
“(1) Where the Governor of the Central Bank has
reasonable grounds to believe that any persons is
carrying on banking business in contravention of the
provisions of this Act, the Governor may direct the
Director of Bank  Supervision or any other officer of
the Central Bank to examine the books, accounts and
records of such person for the purpose of ascertaining
whether such person has contravened, or is
contravening, any of the provisions of this Act.”.
Amendment of
section 14 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
9. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by  the  repeal  of  subsection  (1)  of  that  section
and the substitution therefor of the following
subsection:—
"(1) No company other than a licensed
commercial bank or a licensed specialised bank shall,
except with the prior written approval of the Monetary
Board, use as part of its name or its description any of
the words “bank”, “banker” or “banking”, or any of its
derivatives or its transliterations, or their equivalent
in any other language and no licensed commercial
bank or a licensed specialized bank shall carry on
business in Sri Lanka unless it uses as part of its name
at least one of such words :
Provided however, a licensed commercial bank or
a licensed specialised bank incorporated outside Sri
Lanka which does not have the word “bank”, “banker”
or “banking” in any language in its name may carry
on business in Sri Lanka notwithstanding the omission
of these words in its name.”;
(2) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :—
“(3) Nothing in this section shall apply—
(a) to a subsidiary of a licensed commercial
bank or of a licensed specialised bank
established in accordance with the
provisions of this Act or any directions
given hereunder;
(b) to any association of licensed commercial
banks or licensed specialised banks
formed for the protection of their interests;
Amendment of
section 16 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 18 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200517
(c) to a trade union registered under the Trade
Union Ordinance (Chapter 138), which
is an association or combination of
workers who are employees of a banking
institution within the meaning of section
127 of the Monetary Law Act, or of the
Central Bank or of a licensed specialised
bank;
(d) to an agency, institution, person or body
of persons which is a banking institution
in terms of paragraph (b) or paragraph (d)
of the definition of the expression
“banking institution” in section 127 of
the Monetary Law Act;
(e) to the use of the words in the manner
restricted under subsection (1) for the
purpose of incorporating or changing the
name of a company during the period of
validity of a letter of Provisional
Approval issued under section 3 or
section 76
B ;
(f) to the representative office of a
commercial bank incorporated or
established outside Sri Lanka.”.
10. Section 17
A  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section as follows :—
(1) in paragraph (d) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “financial sectors.” of the words
“financial sectors;”; and
(2) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (d) of
that section, of the following new paragraph :—
“(e) investments authorized by the Monetary
Board.”.
Amendment of
section 17
A  of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
11. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “and to the shareholders” wherever they occur
in that subsection, of the words “and to the share holders, to
the holders of non-redeemable debt instruments and its
liabilities on repurchase agreements in relation to treasury
bills or securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of
Sri Lanka, or on such other assets as determined by the
Monetary Board.”.
12. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “No off-shore
banking business” of the words "Unless authorized under
section 76
D , no off-shore banking business”.
13. Section 25 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that section, and
substitution therefor of the following paragraph :—
“(a) accept savings, time and demand deposits from any
non-resident in any designated foreign currency
provided that, in the case of time deposits the value
of such deposits shall not be less than ten thousand
United States dollars or its equivalent in any other
designated foreign currency or such higher amount
as may be determined by the Monetary Board : and
provided that funds in any account maintained in
an off shore unit shall not be withdrawable by
cheque;”.
14. Section 36 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal of
paragraph (f) thereof and substitution therefor of the following
paragraph :—
“(f) cash flow statement;”.
Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 25 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 23 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 36 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 20 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200519
15. Section 38 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
38. (1) Every licensed commercial bank
incorporated or established within Sri Lanka
by or under any written law shall transmit within
five months after the close of its financial year
to the Director of Bank Supervision, and
publish at least once within that period in a
Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspaper
circulating in Sri Lanka, its audited balance
sheet as at the close of the financial year, and its
profit and loss account for such financial year
in respect of its business in and outside Sri Lanka
including its off-shore banking business and
exhibit them in a conspicuous place at each of
its places of business until the balance sheet
and profit and loss account for the succeeding
financial year are prepared and exhibited.
(2) Every licensed commercial bank
incorporated outside Sri Lanka shall transmit
to the Director of Bank Supervision, within five
months after the close of its financial year, its
audited balance sheet as at the close of the
financial year and its profit and loss account
for such financial year in respect of its business
in Sri Lanka including its off-shore banking
business and shall publish such balance sheet
and its profit and loss account at least once in a
Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspaper
circulating in Sri Lanka within such time as
may be required by the Director and shall
exhibit them in a conspicuous place at each of
its places of business until the balance sheet
and profit and loss account for the succeeding
financial year are prepared and exhibited.
Replacement  of
section 38 of the
principal
enactment.
“Publication
of balance
sheet and
profit and
loss account.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
(3) The Monetary Board may specify the
form of the balance sheet and profit and loss
account referred to in this Part including any
disclosure requirements to be made and where
such form is specified, the balance sheet and
the profit and loss account of every licensed
commercial bank shall be prepared in such form
as may be specified.
(4) Every licensed commercial bank shall
within six months of the date of closure of its
financial year, exhibit in a conspicuous place
in each of its places of business the consolidated
balance sheet as at the end of such financial
year setting out the state of affairs of such
commercial bank and of its subsidiary
companies and associate companies until the
consolidated balance sheet for the succeeding
financial year is prepared and exhibited.
(5) The provisions of subsection (3) and
subsection (4) of section 17 and the provisions
of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 46,
as the case may be, shall apply in determining
for the purpose of subsection (4) of this section,
whether a company is a subsidiary company or
an associate company of a licensed commercial
bank.”.
16. Section 42 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following new section is substituted
therefor :—
42. (1) No  person  shall   be appointed,
elected   or  nominated as a director of a licensed
commercial bank  or  continue  as a director of
such bank unless that person is a fit and proper
person to hold office as a director of such bank
and if he is not prevented from doing so by any
provision of this Act or of any other written law.
Replacement
of section
42 of the
principal
enactment.
"Disqualif-
ication for
appointment,
election &c,.
as director.

<!-- page 22 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200521
(2) In determining whether a person would,
for the purposes of subsection (1) be considered
to be a fit and proper person, the following
matters shall be taken into consideration:—
(a) that such person possesses academic or
professional qualifications or effective
experience in banking, finance, business
or administration or of any other relevant
discipline;
(b) that there is no finding of any regulatory
or supervisory authority, professional
association, any Commission of Inquiry,
tribunal or other body established by law
in Sri Lanka or abroad, to the effect that
such person has committed or has been
connected with the commission of, any
act which involves fraud, deceit,
dishonesty or any  other improper conduct;
(c) that such person is not subject  to an
investigation or  inquiry consequent upon
being served with notice of a charge
involving fraud, deceit, dishonesty or
other similar criminal activity, by any
regulatory authority, supervisory
authority, professional association,
Commission of Inquiry, tribunal or other
body established by law, in Sri Lanka or
abroad ;
(d) that such person has not been convicted
by any Court in Sri Lanka or abroad in
respect of a crime committed in connection
with financial manangment or of any
offence involving moral turpitude;
(e) that such person is not an undischarged
insolvent nor has he been declared a
bankrupt in Sri Lanka or abroad;

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
(f) that such person has not failed, to satisfy
any judgement or order of any  court
whether in Sri Lanka or abroad, or to repay
a debt;
(g) that such person has not been declared by
a court of competent jurisdiction in Sri
Lanka or abroad, to be of unsound mind;
(h) that such person has not been removed or
suspended by an order of a regulatory or
supervisory authority from serving as a
director, Chief Executive Officer or other
officer in any bank or financial institution
or corporate body, in Sri Lanka or abroad;
(i) that such person has not been a director,
Chief Executive Officer or held any other
position of authority in any bank or
financial institution. —
(i) whose license has been suspended or
cancelled; or
(ii) which has been wound up or is being
wound up, or which is being
compulsorily liquidated.
whether in Sri Lanka or abroad.
(3) (a)  A director or an employee of a
licensed commercial bank shall not be
appointed, elected or nominated as a director
of another licensed commercial bank or a
licensed specialised bank except where such
licensed commercial bank or such licensed
specialised bank is a subsidiary company or an
associate company of the first mentioned
licensed commercial bank.

<!-- page 24 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200523
(b) An employee of a licensed commercial
bank may be appointed, elected or nominated
as a director of that bank subject to the following
conditions :—
(i) the number of employees appointed,
elected or nominated as directors
(hereinafter referred to as “executive
directors”) shall not exceed one-third of
the number of members of the Board of
Directors of the bank;
(ii) where employees are appointed, elected
or nominated as executive directors one
of them shall be the Chief Executive
Officer of the bank and the others shall
be such officers of the bank performing
executive functions as may be
determined for the purposes of section
44
A ;
(iii) a meeting of the Board of Directors of the
bank shall not be duly constituted
although the number of Directors required
to constitute the quorum at such meeting
is present unless more than one half of
the number of directors present at such
meeting are directors who are non-
executive directors.
(4) Every licensed commercial bank shall
notify the Director of Bank Supervision in such
form as may be determined by the Director, the
name,  address and occupation of —
(a) each person proposed to be appointed,
elected or nominated as a director of the
bank, before such appointment, election
or nomination as the case may be ;

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
(b) each person appointed, elected or
nominated as a director of the bank,
within fifteen days after such
appointment, election or nomination as
the case may be ;
(c) any director of the bank, if the bank is
aware that such person is not a fit and
proper person, or where such director
becomes otherwise ineligible to hold
office as such director, within fifteen days
of its becoming  aware of such facts.
(5) The Director of Bank Supervision may,
having regard to the matters specified in
subsections (1), (2) and (3), approve or refuse
to approve the proposed appointment, election
or nomination as the case may be as a director
of the licensed commercial bank of the person
referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (4)
and shall, within thirty days after submission
of the name of such person under that
subsection, notify the bank of such approval or
refusal, giving reasons therefor. It shall be the
duty of the bank to communicate such
notification to the person to whom it relates.
(6) A person aggrieved by the refusal of
the Director of Bank Supervision under the
provisions of subsection (5) to approve his
proposed appointment, election or nomination
as the case may be, as a director of the relevant
bank, may within fourteen days of the date of
receipt of the communication sent by the bank
under subsection (5) tender written objections
against such refusal to the Monetary Board.
Upon receipt of such objections, the Monetary
Board shall after considering the reasons given
by the Director of Bank Supervision in his
notification and the objections of the aggrieved

<!-- page 26 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200525
party, and such other matters which in its
opinion merit inquiry, decide either to confirm
the refusal made by the Director of Bank
Supervision or approve the proposed
appointment, election or nomination as the case
may be, of such person as a director of the bank.
(7) A licensed commercial bank shall not
appoint, elect or nominate as a director of the
bank, a person whose appointment, election or
nomination as the case may be has not been
approved under subsection (5) or subsection (6) :
Provided that a person whose name has been
submitted to the Director of Bank Supervision
for approval under subsection (5) may be
appointed, elected or nominated as the case may
be as a director of the bank at any time before
the notification of the decision of the Director
under that subsection.  Where however the
Director refuses to grant such approval under
that subsection and notifies the bank
accordingly  and the bank notifies such person
accordingly, the person shall on the receipt of
the notification by the bank, cease forthwith to
hold office as a director of the bank subject to
any decision made by the Monetary Board
under subsection (6).
(8) Where the Director of Bank
Supervision, having regard to the matters
specified in subsections (1), (2) and (3) is
satisfied at any time that a person appointed,
elelcted or nominated as the case may be as a
director of a licensed commercial bank is not a
fit and proper person or that he is otherwise
ineligible for appointment, election or
nomination as the case may be or that the
election, appointment or nomination as the case
may be of a person as a director of a licensed

<!-- page 27 -->

26 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
commercial bank contravenes the provisions
of subsection (3) or subsection (7) the Director
shall submit a report to the Monetary Board.
The Board may, if it is satisfied on consideration
of the report and such other matters which in its
opinion merit inquiry, that the person is not a
fit and proper person or the election,
appointment or nomination as the case may be
of the person contravenes the provisions  of
subsection (3) or subsection (7) —
(a) direct the bank in writing to remove such
person from the office of director within
such period as may be specified in such
direction, giving the reasons for such
direction; and
(b) notify in writing the person whose
removal is required under such direction,
of such  direction, a copy of which shall
be annexed to such notification,
and the bank shall within the period specified
in the direction remove such person from the
office of the director and notify such person in
writing of his removal from the office of
director, and shall take such steps as are
necessary to inform the shareholders of the
bank and the Registrar of Companies of such
removal.  The removal of a director in
accordance with the directions given under
paragraph (a) shall take effect from the date of
receipt by the director of the notification of
removal given by the bank, notwithstanding
the provisions of any other law or the Articles
of Association of the bank.
(9) A licensed commercial bank which
fails to comply with any direction given under
paragraph (a) of subsection (8) within the
period specified in such direction and a director

<!-- page 28 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200527
who has been served with a notice under
paragraph (b) of section (8) who continues to
function as a director, shall each be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction
after trial before a Magistrate to a fine of rupees
five hundred thousand and shall —
(a) be liable in the case of the bank, to a
further fine of rupees one hundred
thousand, in respect of each day the bank
fails to comply with such direction after
such conviction; and
(b) be liable in the case of a director of the
bank, to a further fine of rupees one
hundred thousand in respect of each day
such director continues as director after
such conviction.
(10) Any person who is aggrieved by the
removal of such person from the office of director
of a licensed commercial bank under subsection
(8), may appeal in writing against such removal
to the Monetary Board and the Monetary Board
shall after considering the appeal, either confirm
such removal or issue new directions to the bank
to reappoint him to his former office as a director
of such bank.
(11) Where any written law, other than this
Act, provides for the appointment of a person as
a director of a licensed commercial bank by virtue
of an office the person holds, the preceding
provisions of this section shall not apply to the
appointment of that person as a director of such
bank.
(12) The responsibilities of the Board of
Directors shall include the overseeing of the
management of the affairs of the Bank.”.

<!-- page 29 -->

28 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
17. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 44  of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 44A  of that enactment :—
44A . (1) The Chief Executive Officer and
such other officers of a licensed commercial
bank performing executive functions as may
be determined by the Monetary Board shall be
fit and proper persons and the provisions of
subsection (2)  of section  42  shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply in determining whether the
Chief Executive Officer and such other  officers
performing executive functions are fit and
proper persons.
(2) The provisions of subsections (5) (6),
(8), (9) and (10) of section 42 shall apply to the
Chief Executive Officer and officers performing
executive functions referred to in subsection
(1) of this section and to the licensed
commercial bank of which such person is a
Chief Executive Officer or an officer performing
executive functions as they apply to a director
of a licensed commercial bank and to the
licensed commercial bank of which such person
is a director.”.
18. Section 45 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
45. (1) Where the Director of Bank
Supervision is satisfied that a licensed
commercial bank—
(a) is engaged in unsafe and unsound
practices in the carrying on of its business
which is likely to jeopardise its
obligations to its depositors or is likely
to result in such bank being unable to
meet its obligations; or
Insertion of
new section
44
A  in the
principal
enactment.
“Chief
Executive
Officers and
executive
officers.
Replacement of
section 45 of the
principal
enactment. “Powers of
the Director
of Bank
Supervision.

<!-- page 30 -->

Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 200529
(b) has contravened or failed to comply with
the provisions of this Act or of any
regulation, direction, order or other
requirement made or given under this Act
or has contravened or failed to comply
with any other written law which in the
opinion of the Director of Bank
Supervision relates to banking or finance,
the Director of Bank Supervision may, subject
to subsection (2) issue an order directing  the
licensed  commercial bank,—
(i) to cease and desist from any such
practice, contravention or failure;
(ii) to comply with the provisions of this
Act or of such other written law, or of
any regulation, direction, order or other
requirement made or given under this
Act;
(iii) to take necessary action to correct the
conditions resulting from such practice,
contravention or failure,
within such period as may be specified in the
order.
(2) An order issued under subsection (1)
shall —
(a) specify the unsafe and unsound practice
engaged in or the provisions of this Act
or other written law or the regulation,
direction, order or other requirement made
or given under this Act that are
contravened or not complied with;
(b) be served personally on, or be sent by
registered post to, the licensed
commercial bank;

<!-- page 31 -->

30 Banking (Amendment)  Act, No. 2 of 2005
(c) take effect on the date of its service on
the licensed commercial bank,
notwithstanding an appeal made under
subsection (3), unless the Monetary Board
otherwise directs .
(3) Any licensed commercial bank
aggrieved by an order issued under subsection
(1) may, before the expiration of thirty days of
the date of service of the order, appeal to the
Monetary Board and the Monetary Board shall,
within thirty days of the date of receipt of the
appeal confirm, vary or revoke such order.
(4) Without prejudice to anything
contained in section 9, and notwithstanding
that an appeal has been tendered to the
Monetary Board under subsection (3), a
licensed commercial bank which fails to comply
with an order under subsection (1) within the
period specified in the order, shall be guilty of
an offence under this Act and shall be liable on
conviction upon trial by a Magistrate to a fine
of one million rupees and to a further fine of
one hundred thousand rupees for each day of
non-compliance with the order after the
conviction, provided that, where an appeal has
been tendered under subsection (3), proceedings
shall not be instituted before a Magistrate until
the decision of the Monetary Board is conveyed
to the licensed commercial bank.”.
19. Section 46 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :—
“(1) In order to ensure the soundness of the
banking system, the Monetary Board may issue
directions to licensed commercial banks or for
reasons to be stated in writing to any one or more
Amendment of
section 46 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 32 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 31
of them regarding the manner in which any aspect
of the business of such bank or banks is to be
conducted and without prejudice to the
foregoing, may, also issue directions
specifying —
(a) the class or classes of advances which
may or may not be made by such bank;
(b) the margins to be maintained in respect
of secured advances;
(c) the maximum amount of accommodation
which having regard to the equity capital,
reserves and deposits of such licensed
commercial bank and other relevant
considerations, as may be made by such
bank —
(i) to any single company, public
corporation, firm, association of
persons or an individual; or
(ii) in the aggregate to —
(a) an individual, his close
relations or to a company or
firm in which he has a
substantial interest;
(b) a company and one or more of
the following: —
(aa) its subsidiaries;
(bb) its holding company;
(cc) its associate company;
(dd) a subsidiary of its
holding company; or
(ee) a company in which such
company or its
subsidiary, or its holding
company, or a subsidiary
of its holding company,
has a substantial interest;

<!-- page 33 -->

32 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
(d) the maximum percentage of the share
capital in a licensed commercial bank
incorporated in Sri Lanka —
(i) held by a company, an incorporated
body, or an individual;
(ii) held in the aggregate by—
(a) a company and one or more of
the following:—
(aa) its subsidiaries;
(bb) its holding company;
(cc) a subsidiary of its holding
company; or
(dd) a company in which such
company or its subsidiary,
or its holding company, or
a subsidiary of its holding
company has a substantial
interest; or
(b) an individual and one or more
of the following :—
(aa) his close relations;
(bb) a company in which he
has a substantial interest
or in which his close
relation has a substantial
interest;
(cc) the subsidiary of such
company;
(dd) a holding company of
such company;

<!-- page 34 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 33
(ee) a subsidiary of such
company’s holding
company;
(ff) a company in which such
company, or its subsidiary,
or its holding company or
a subsidiary of its holding
company has a substantial
interest; or
(gg) an incorporated body
other than a company in
which such individual or
his close relation has    a
substantial interest; or
(c) companies in each of which an
individual or company as the case
may be, has either directly,
indirectly or beneficially a
substantial interest or significant
management interest.
For the purposes of this Act a company
is deemed to be an “associate company”
of another company where not less than
twenty per centum and not more than
fifty per centum of its shares are held by
that other company.";
(2) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section.
20. Section 47 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of
that section and substitution therefor of the
following subsections :—
Amendment of
section 47 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 35 -->

34 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
“(2) A licensed commercial bank shall not grant
accommodation for the purchase of its own shares
nor grant accommodation against the security of —
(a) its own shares;
(b) shares of companies which have a substantial
interest in it; or
(c) shares of companies in which the companies
referred to in paragraph (b) have a substantial
interest :
Provided that nothing in this section shall be
taken to prohibit the provision by the licensed
commercial bank, in accordance with any scheme
for the time being in force, of money for the purchase
of or subscription for fully paid shares in the licensed
commercial bank being a purchase or subscription
by Trustees of or for shares to be held by or for the
benefit of employees of the licensed commercial
bank:
Provided further that the amounts of money so
provided and the aggregate principal amount of
such accomodation outstanding at any one time,
shall not exceed the equivalent of ten percentum of
the total nominal amount of the subscribed and paid
up share capital of the bank or ten percentum of the
unimpaired capital funds of the bank, whichever is
greater.
(3) A licensed commercial bank shall not grant
any accommodation to any of its directors or to a
close relation of such director unless such
accommodation is sanctioned at a meeting of its
Board of Directors with not less than two-thirds of
the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors (other than the director concerned) voting
in favour of such accommodation and, except where
such accommodation is provided by the issue of a
credit card, such accommodation is secured by such
security as may from time to time be approved by
the Monetary Board.

<!-- page 36 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 35
(4) Accommodation granted by a licensed
commercial bank to a director or to a close relation
of such director shall not exceed such limit as may
be approved by the Monetary Board from time to
time by Order published in the Gazette.
(5) A licensed commercial bank shall not grant
any accommodation to a concern in which any
director of the licensed commercial bank has a
substantial interest, being an interest acquired either
before or after the appointment as the director, unless
such security as may from time to time be approved
by the Monetary Board is given and such
accommodation is sanctioned at a meeting of the
Board of Directors of the licensed commercial bank
by the votes of not less than two thirds of the number
of its directors other than the Director concerned.”.
(2) by the repeal of subsections (11) and (11
A ) of that
section and substution therefor of the following
subsections:—
“(11) No accommodation granted by a licensed
commercial bank under subsection (3) or subsection
(5) or any part of such accommodation or any interest
due thereon shall be remitted without the prior
approval of the Monetary Board and any remission
without such approval shall be void and of no effect.
(11
A ) Where any accommodation is granted by
a licensed commercial bank under subsection (3) or
subsection (5) during the course of any financial
year, such accommodation shall be disclosed in the
accounts for that financial year and for each
subsequent financial year till such accommodation
has been repaid or settled in full.”.
21. Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “Monetary Board”
of the words “Director of Bank Supervision”.
Amendment of
section 49 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 37 -->

36 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
22. Section 58 of the principal enatment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)
of that section ;
(2) by the addition immediately after the renumbered
subsection (1), of the following new subsection :—
“(2) The Director of Bank Supervision may,
engage the services of any professionally
qualified person to assist him in relation to the
excercise of the functions of the liquidator in a
compulsory winding up of a licensed commercial
bank.”.
23. Section 66 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following new subsection:—
“(1) The claims set out hereunder shall have priority
as against the general assests of the licensed commercial
bank in the order indicated below :—
(a) necessary and reasonable expenses incurred
by the liquidator in winding up ;
(b) wages and salaries of officers and employees
of the bank for the three month period
immediately preceding the commencement of
winding up proceedings ;
(c) taxes, rates and deposits owed to the
Government and local authorities by the
licensed commercial bank ;
(d) fees and assessments due to the Central Bank ;
(e) funds deposited in any account with the
licensed commercial bank with interest
accrued thereon, up to a limit of rupees twenty
thousand in respect of any account; and
Amendment of
section 66 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 58 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 38 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 37
(f) other deposits with interest if any, accrued
thereon.”.
24. Section 76A  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “of section 19 of this Act.” in the definition of
‘equity capital’ of the following words :—
“of section 19 of this Act and for that purpose, the
reference in that subsection to a licensed commercial
bank shall be deemed to be a reference to a licensed
specialised bank.”.
25. Section 76
B  of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
76B . The provisions of section 3 shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply in respect of an
application made for a licence under this Part
as they apply in respect of an application made
under Part I and for that purpose any reference
to “banking business” in that  section shall be
deemed to be a reference to the business of
accepting deposits of money and investing and
lending such money, and any reference to
section 5 shall be deemed to be a reference to
section 76
C .".
26. Section 76C  of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following  section substituted therefor:—
76C . The provisions of section 5 shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to the issue of a licence
under this Part as they apply to the issue of a
licence under Part I and for that purpose any
reference to “banking business” in that section
shall be deemed to be a reference to the business
of accepting deposits of money and investing
and lending such money.".
Replacement of
section 76B  of
the principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 76c of
the principal
enactment.
“Application
for licence.
Amendment of
section 76
A  of
the principal
enactment.
“Issue of
licence.

<!-- page 39 -->

38 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
27. Section 76D  of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor:—
76D . (1) Any company which has been
issued with a licence under this Part shall be
referred to as a "licensed specialised bank”.
 (2)  A licensed specialised bank may carry
on such forms of business as are specified in
Schedule IV of this Act subject to such
restrictions expressly stipulatd in the licence
or as may be imposed by or under any written
law.
(3) The Monetary Board may authorise
a licensed specialised bank which satisfies the
requirements prescribed by regulations made
by the Minister under section 82 to carry on
off shore banking business in accordance with
such off shore banking scheme formulated for
licensed specialised banks by the Monetary
Board and where a licensed specialised bank
is authorised to carry on offshore banking
business the provisions of Part IV shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to such licensed specialised
bank as they apply to a licensed commercial
bank.
(4) A licensed specialised bank shall not
carry on its business in any place other than
that specified in the licence except with the
prior written approval of the Monetary Board.
(5) A licensed specialised bank carrying
on business under the authority of a licence
issued under this Part shall be deemed not to
act in contravention of section 2 of the Finance
Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988.
Replacement
of section 76D
of the
principal
enactment. “Forms of
business to be
carried on by
a licensed
specialized
bank and
payment of
annual licence
fee.

<!-- page 40 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 39
(6)  Every licensed specialised bank shall
pay to the Central Bank an annual licence fee
as may be determined by the Monetary Board
and the Monetary Board may determine
different licence fees for different categories of
licensed specialised banks.".
28. Section 76
F of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following new section substituted therefor:-
76F. (1) The provisions of  section 9 shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply in respect of a licensed
specialised bank as they apply in respect of a
licensed commercial bank and for that purpose
any reference therein to a licensed commercial
bank shall be deemed to be a reference to a
licensed specialised bank, and any reference
therein to section 5 shall be deemed to be a
reference to section 76
C , and any reference
therein to banking business shall be deemed to
be a reference to the business of accepting
deposits of money and investing and lending
such  money.
(2) Nothing contained in subsection (1)
shall in any way affect the powers conferred on
the Monetary Board or the Director of Bank
Supervision by section 76
M .".
29. Section 76H  of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following new section substituted therefor:-
76H . The provisions of Part V and Part  VI
of this Act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to a
licensed specialised bank as they apply to a
licensed commercial bank.".
Replacement of
section 76H  of
the principal
enactment.
“Part V
and Part VI
to apply to a
licenced
specialised
bank.
Replacement of
section 76
F of
the principal
enactment.
"Cancellation
of licence of
a licenced
specialised
bank.

<!-- page 41 -->

40 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
30. Section 76J of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that subsection, as follows :—
(1) by the insertion immediately after subclause
(q)(ii)(b)(gg) thereof, of the following subclause :—
“(hh) companies in each of which an individual or
a company as the case may be, has either
directly or indirectly a substantial interest or
a significant management interest.”;
(2) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (t)
thereof, of the following paragraph :—
“(u) the limit of foreign participation in the capital
of a licensed specialised bank incorporated
or established in Sri Lanka.”.
31. Section 76
K  of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
76K . The provisions of section 45 shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply in respect of licensed
specialised banks as they apply in respect of
licensed commercial banks and for that purpose
any reference therein to a licensed commercial
bank shall be deemed to be a reference to a
licensed specialised bank.”.
32. Section 76
M  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (3) of that section—
(a) by the substitution for the words “period of
sixty days” of the words “period of six months”;
(b) by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:–
Replacement of
section 76K  of
the principal
enactment.
“Procedure
where
licensed
specialized
banks
follow
unsafe
practices.
Amendment of
section 76
M  of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 76J of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 42 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 41
“(b) to cancel the licence issued to such licensed
specialised bank and —
(i) where the bank is incorporated or
established within Sri Lanka by or under
any written law, proceedings for the
compulsory winding up of the bank shall
commence and the provisions of Part VIII
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such
winding up;
(ii) where the bank is incorporated outside
Sri Lanka, the business of the bank
authorised under the licence issued under
section 76
A  shall be compulsorily closed
down and its affairs shall be wound up
and the provisions of Part VIII shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to such
compulsory closure;”;
(2) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsections :—
“(4) A licensed specialised bank incorporated
or established within Sri Lanka may be voluntarily
wound up and the provisions of Part VIII shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to such voluntary winding up.
(5) A licensed specialised bank incorporated
outside Sri Lanka may voluntarily close down its
business authorised under the licence issued under
section 76
A  and the provisions of Part VIII shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to such closure.”.
33. Section 76N  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for all the words commencing from “where an order” and
ending with “section 76
M ” of the following:–
“Where the business of a licensed specialised bank has
been suspended under subsection (1) of section 76(M ) ;”.
Amendment of
section 76N  of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 43 -->

42 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
34. Section 77 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor:—
77. (1) Every director, manager, officer or
other person employed in the business of any
licensed commercial bank or licensed
specialised bank shall observe strict secrecy in
respect of all transactions of the bank, its
customers and the state of accounts of any
person and all matters relating thereto and shall
not reveal any such matter except—
(a) when required to do so —
(i) by a court of law;
(ii) by the person to whom such matter
relates;
(b) in the performance of the duties of the
director, manager, officer or other person;
or
(c) in order to comply with any of the
provisions of this Act or any other written
law.
(2) Every director, manager, officer or person employed
in the business of a licensed commercial bank or licensed
specialised bank shall before entering upon the duties, sign a
declaration pledging himself to observe strict secrecy in
accordance with subsection (1).
(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall not
prohibit a bank from providing in good faith to another bank
on request an opinion or reference relating to a customer in
accordance with customary banking practice.”.
35. Section 78 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words, “against any
member” of the words “against the Monetary Board or any
member”.
Amendment of
section 78 of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 77 of the
principal
enactment.
“Declaration
of secrecy.

<!-- page 44 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 43
36. Section 79 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
79. (1) Any person who commits an
offence under subsection (5) of section 2,
subsection (11) of section 3, subsection (3) of
section 14, subsection (3) of section 33,
subsection (3) of section 41 or subsection (12)
of section 47 of this Act,  shall be liable on
conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one million
rupees  or imprisonment of either description
for a term not exceeding three years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who contravenes the
provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of section
16, subsection (1) of section 17 or section 77
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and
shall be liable on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one
million rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding three years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(3) Any person who commits an offence
under this Act other than an offence referred to
in subsection (1) or subsection (2) above, shall
be liable on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, unless where the
punishment is otherwise provided for in this
Act, to a fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding eighteen
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(4) Any person who contravenes any
provision of this Act or any order, direction,
requirement, rule or regulation under this Act,
other than those specified in subsection (2) or
those that otherwise constitute an offence, shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall
Replacement of
section 79 of the
principal
enactment.“Offences.

<!-- page 45 -->

44 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
be liable on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate to  a fine not exceeding
five hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding eighteen months or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
(5) In any proceedings against any person
under subsection (2) for contravention of the
provisions of section 77,  it shall be a defence
to prove that such person acted in good faith,
believing himself to be acting in the
performance of his duties or under a requirement
of law.
(6) In any proceedings against a director,
manager, officer or an employee of a licensed
commercial bank or a licensed specialised bank
for an offence under this Act it shall be a defence
for the director, manager, officer or employee to
establish that the offence was committed
without the knowledge of such director,
manager, officer or employee or that such
director, manager, officer or employee exercised
all due diligence to avoid the commission of
the offence.”.
37. Section 79
A  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand
rupees” of the words “not exceeding one million rupees”.
38. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 83
B  of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 83C  of that enactment:—
83C . (1) No person shall directly or
indirectly initiate, offer, promote, advertise,
conduct, finance, manage or direct a Scheme
Amendment of
section 79A  of
the principal
enactment.
“Prohibition
on conduct
of certain
Schemes.
Insertion of
section 83
C  in
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 46 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 45
where a participant is required to contribute or
pay money or monetary value and the benefits
earned by the participant are largely dependent
on—
(a) increase in the number of participants in
the Scheme; or
(b) increase in the contributions   made by the
participants in the Scheme.
For the purpose of this subsection —
“money” menans a monetary unit or a
medium of exchange that is issued,
established, authorized or adopted by
Sri Lanka or a foreign government ;
and
“monetary value” means a medium of
exchange whether or not redeemable
in money, including in the form of
stored value, payment instrument or
credit to account and shall also include
gold coin and gold bullion.”.
(2) Any person who contravenes the
provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate to
imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding three years or to a fine not
exceeding rupees one million or to both such
imprisonment and fine. Where the offence is
committed wilfully or knowingly, or with
knowledge that the act will cause damage or
harm to any other person, to rigorous
imprisonment for a term  not less than three
years and not more than five years and to a fine

<!-- page 47 -->

46 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
of rupees two million or twice the aggregate
amount in Sri Lanka currency revealed or
divulged to have been received from the
participants in the Scheme, whichever is higher.
(3) An officer of the Central Bank
authorized in that behalf by the Governor, may,
where information has been received that there
has been or is likely to be a contravention of
the provisions of subsection (1), conduct an
investigation into such matter.  In carrying out
his duties under this section the authorised
officer may,—
(a) enter and search any premeises where he
has reason to believe that any acts relating
to the commission of the offence specified
in subsection (1) are being committed or
any books or other records or documents
relating to such acts are kept or
maintained at such place;
(b) call for further information or documents ;
(c) examine any documents, books or
records, including records maintained in
electronic form or computer generated
transcripts;
(d) obtain copies of any documents, books
or records or computer generated
transcripts or any part thereof,
for the purpose of ascertaing whether any person
has contravened or is likely to contravene the
provisions of subsection (1).
(4) Any person who obstructs or resists the
authorised officer in the exercise of his powers
under this section, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.

<!-- page 48 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 47
(5) any person who fails to furnish any information within
his knowledge, or any book or other record or documents or
computer generated transcripts relating to such acts  which
are in his custody or possession, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.
(6) In any prosecution for an offence under this section,
the extracts from any books or other record or documents or
computer generated trascripts relating to such acts shall be
admissible in evidence and shall be prima facie eveidence of
the facts stated therein.
(7) The Central Bank shall provide any information,
documents, books, records or computer generated transcripts
obtained in the course of an investigation conducted under
subsection (3) to the law enforcement authorities and shall
co-operate with such authorities in the prosecution of a person
for violation of the  provisions of subsection (1).
(8) Upon an application made to it by an officer of the
Police above the rank of an Inspector of Police and upon
satisfying itself that a prima facie case exists against a person
for the violation of the provisions of subsection (1), the High
Court of the Western Province established under Article 154P
of the Constitution holder in Colombo shall issue an exparte
Order against the offender prohibiting him from engaging in
any act specified in subsection (1).
(9) The High Court may, upon application made in that
behalf by the person on whom an order under subsection (8)
has been made or by any other person adversely affected by
such order, and upon hearing all parties as it may consider
necessary, make order revoking the order made by it under
subsection (8), or permit any act prohibited under
subsection (8) conditionally or unconditionally, if it is
satisfied that such revocation or permission is necessary to
avoid undue damage to legitimate business or the legitimate
interests of the applicant.”

<!-- page 49 -->

48 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
39. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
40. Section 86 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(a) by the repeal of the definition of the expression
“accommodation"  and the substitution therefor of
the following definition :—
‘“accommodation” means any loan, overdraft or
advance or such other facility as may be
determined by the Monetary Board or any
commitment to grant any loan, overdraft or
advance or such other facility as may be
determined by the Monetary Board, including
a commitment to accept a contingent liability;’;
(b) in the definition of the expression “capital funds”
by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof, and the
substitution therefor of the following :—
“(b) in the case of a licensed specialised bank, the
equity capital and the reserve fund maintained
pursuant to directions under subsection (1) of
section 76
J and includes reserves other than
funds reserved for specified purposes;”;
(c) by the repeal of the definition of  the expression
“company ” and the substitution therefor of the
following definition :—
‘“company” means a company formed and
registered under the Companies Act, No. 17
of 1982 and any other body incorporated
within or outside Sri Lanka;’;
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Amendment of
section 86 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 50 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 49
(d) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression "Director of Bank Supervision" of
the following definition :—
‘ “deposit” includes a sum of money accepted from
any person as a business on terms under which
it will be repaid with or without interest or a
premium, and either on demand or at  a future
time or in circumstances agreed to by or on
behalf of the person making the payment and
the person accepting it, provided that the
persons accepting the  money is a person who
in the usual course of  business, lends money
or makes available the use or the benefit of
the money so accepted to third parties and,
also includes any sum of money accepted as
provided in paragraph (y) of Schedule II and
paragraph (nn) of Schedule IV;’;
(e) by the repeal of the definition  of the expression
“substantial interest” and substitution therefor of
the following definition:—
‘“substantial interest” means—
(a) in relation to a company, the holding of a
beneficial interest by another company or
an individual or his close relation, whether
singly or taken together, in the shares thereof,
the paid up value of which exceeds ten per
centum  of the paid up capital of the company
or the existence of a guarantee or indemnity
for a sum not less than ten per cent of the
paid up capital given by an individual or
his close relation or by another company on
behalf of such company;
(b) in relation to a firm, the beneficial interest
held therein by an individual or his close
relation, whether singly or taken together,
which represents more than ten per centum

<!-- page 51 -->

50 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
of the total capital subscribed by all partners
of the firm or the existence of a guarantee or
indemnity for a sum not less than ten per
centum  of that  capital given by an individual
or the spouse, parent or child of the individual
on behalf of such firm.”.
41. Schedule II of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the  insertion immediately after paragraph (x)
thereof, of the following new paragraphs :—
“(y) the acceptance of a sum of money in any manner or
form from any person for a fixed period of time for
investment in a business venture of the bank on the
basis that profits or losses of the venture will be
shared with the person from whom such money is
accepted in a manner determined at the time the
money is accepted;
 (z) the purchase of goods, to be sold immediately upon
purchase to a buyer on deferred payment terms
provided that the goods and their suppliers are
specified by such buyer and the price at which such
goods are sold to the buyer and the deferred payment
terms are determined at the time the bank agrees
with the buyer to purchase the said goods for sale to
the buyer.”.
42. The Schedule IV of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(a) by the repeal of paragraph (nn) of that Schedule,
and the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph :—
“(nn) the acceptance of a sum of money in any
manner or form from any person for a fixed
period of time for investment in a business
venture of the bank on the basis that profits
or losses of the venture will be shared with
Amendment of
Schedule II of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
Schedule IV of
the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 52 -->

Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005 51
the person from whom such money is
accepted in a manner determined at the time
the money is accepted;” and;
(b) by the addition, at the end of that Schedule, of the
following paragraphs :—
"(oo) the purchase of goods, to be sold
immediately upon purchase to a buyer on
deferred payment terms provided that the
goods and their suppliers are specified by
such buyer and the price at which such goods
are sold to the buyer and the deferred
payment terms are determined at the time
the bank agrees with the buyer to purchase
the said goods for sale to the buyer;
(pp) any other business which the Monetary
Board may authorise a licensed specialised
bank to engage in.”.
43. Notwithstanding a conflict between the provisions
of the principal enactment as amended by Act, No. 33 of
1995 and this Act and the provisions of any written law by or
under which any authority which is required to obtain a
license under such principal enactment was established, all
acts, decisions or things commenced under such written law
and pending and incomplete on the date of the coming into
operation of this Act, may be carried on and completed as if
there had been no such amendment to the principal
enactment.
Savings  clause.

<!-- page 53 -->

52 Banking (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2005
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNM  ENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.