

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1698$23 - 2011 ud¾;= 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'03'25
No. 1698/23  - FRIDAY ,  MARCH  25,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A
My No. 1/6/6/1/II.
PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL    OF   THE   NORTH   WESTERN     PROVINCE
North Western Provincial  Agricultural Development Statute No. ...... of 2011 of the North-Western Province Provincial
Council
IT is hereby notified for general information that the North Western  Provincial Agricultural Development Statute No. .... of
2011 of the North-Western Province Provincial Council published below, will be tabled in the council at the exploration of a
period of thirty days from today. Any person interested in making any represented on any provision there of should address
me on the matter before the expiry of that period.
D. B. H
ERATH,
Minister of Agriculture, Minor Irrigation, Agrarian Development and
Animal Production and Development.
Ministry of Agriculture, Minor Irrigation, Agrarian Development
and Animal Production and Development (NWP).
Introduction
Name and
Date of
Commencement
NORTH-WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  STATUTE No.......... OF  2011
OF THE NORTH-WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
This statute is established in order to create provisions for planning, implementing and directing relevant
subject’s assigned to provincial councils as indicated in No.9 of list of Schedule 9 of the 13th Amendment
of the constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for achieving the agricultural policies
and objective that are being proposed to implement for a stable development in agriculture in the north-
western province and other agriculture related matters.
North-Western Province Provincial Council doth hereby impose as follows:-
1. This statute is referred to as North-Western Provincial Agriculture Development Statute
No..... of 2011 of the north western  province. It shall be come in to effect from the date of its
approval by the Governor of the North-Western Province.
2. Objective of the statute are as follows:
(i) Creation, making plans implementation and direction of the provincial agricultural policy
to meet with the national agricultural policy.
3 - PG   001231

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2011
2A
(ii) To provide facilities to start new programs and to continue such programmers relating
to provincial Agriculture and to continue Agricultural Research Activities for the
upliftmen of the living standard of farmer which based on expansion of agriculture
activities its promotion and education continue such programmers relating to provincial
Agriculture and to continue Agricultural Research Activities for the upliftmen of the
living standard of farmer which based on expansion of agriculture activities, its promotion
and education ;
(iii) To establish provincial Agriculture committees ;
(iv) Establishment and registration of Agriculture related V oluntary organization ;
(v) Registration of such other similar Agriculture related Institutions within the province ;
(vi) Establishment of a Provincial Department of Agriculture for the implementation of the
requirements indicated in the statute ;
(vii) Co-ordination of Government, Semi- Government, Non-Governmental Institutions,
V oluntary Organizations and Individuals and to obtain their active participation ;
(viii) To provide provisions for the preservation and of indigenous ancestral culture and
heritages rescores of the North-Western province ;
(ix) To encourage the cultivation of uncultivated lands in the province ;
SECTION I
Policy Planning and Plan Implementation
3. The responsibility of Agriculture policy planning in the North-Western Province according
to the national policy shall be entrusted in the provincial ministry of Agriculture promotion
could be receive from Agriculture Committee Established in the province and Government,
Semi Government, Non-Governmental, V oluntary Organizations and from other individuals.
4. Every 5 years the director of Provincial Agriculture North-Western Province herein referred
to as the “ Director” shall prepare the Agriculture of plan for to be implemented in the province
based on factors as a population expansion according to the land area, Geographical factors,
climatic conditions, environmental effects, transport facilities and other criteria and a policy
plan based on these facts, should I be submitted to the North-Western provincial Agricultural
committee - hereafter referred to as the “committee” .
5. The provincial agricultural Minister and the Department shall provide the with the required
Agricultural development, promotion education, sale and marketing co-ordination, research
facilities and citification of agricultural seeds for the farmers of the province according to the
provisions of this statute.
6. Establishment of Zonal offices and Re-organization of Agricultural expansions Divisions can be
implemented according to the basis of population expansion, land area, climatic conditions,
environmental effects and transport facilities available in the province
7. making, orders giving directions and guidance for the implementation of principals and provisions
of this statute shall be done by the Minister-in-Charge of Agriculture in the North-Western
Province hereinafter referred to as the “Minister” .
Agricultural
Policy
Provincial
Agricultural Plan
Establishment of
Agricultural
Institutions and
re organization
of Divisions
Powers of the
Minister
Making Appeals
Agricultural
Policy

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2011
8. It is possible to make appeals to the Minister regarding any order or decision taken by any
officer under the provisions of this statute or any order issued under this statue and any such
order or decision can be cancelled or altered an inquiry conducted by the Minister or any officer
appointed by the Minister or a board of inquiry .
9. Implementation direction and management of the provincial Agricultural policy as per the
according to the Agricultural policy shall be Done by the director on the instructions and guide
-dense given by the Minister for the proper implementation of the principals and provisions of
this statute .
SECTION 2
Composition and responsibilities of the
Provincial Agricultural Department
10. The North Western Provincial Agriculture Department hereinafter referred to as the “Department”
shall implement the provisions of this statute.
11. With the Consent to provincial Minister of Agriculture the North-Western Provincial Governor
shall appoint a Class 1 officer of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service with the title of “North
Western Provincial Director of Agriculture” for the implementation of the provisions of statute.
12. (1) The required Deputy Directors , Assistant  Directors, Agricultural Instructors Rural Level
personnel for the proposed Agricultural expansion and other needed officers shall be
appointed to the staff for the purpose of implementation and management of the powers
and activities of the minister.
(2) All officers who held departmental positions and other employees attached to the North-
Western Province Provincial Department of Agriculture who held such position prior
to the date preceding to implementation of this statute shall be considered as employees
appointed under this statute.
13. ( 1) Subject to the general administration of the Minister and the Secretary, the powers shall
be vested in the Director to implement the Orders and Provisions of the Statute and
other incidental matters.
(2) The Director is empowered to assign his powers to other officers of the Department
when it dimmed necessary.
14. Zonal Agricultural Resources Centers, Agricultural Advisory Officers should be established
and maintained on the basis of Climatic Zonal Level to promote Agricultural Affairs.
15. Educational and Training sections /Units can be established to promote Education and
Agriculture.
16. Other than National Agriculture Research Institute, Research Institutes can be established to
fulfill  requirements of the Province.
17. Development plan for the upliftment of agriculture and Agricultural Institutes of the Province
should be prepare annually by the Director and forward to the approval of the secretary.
18. Department should provide following services for the Development of Agriculture in the
province :-
1. preparing, Training, counseling services and expansion of Agriculture ;
2. Implementing Intra provincial Agriculture Researches and Surveys ;
Establishment of
Department
Appointment of
the Head of
Department
Powers of the
Director
Establishment of
Zonal/Advisory
Office
Powers of
Secretary
Appointment of
Officers
Establishment of
Training
Centres
Task of the
Department
Annual
Development
Plan

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2011
4A
3. Planning and Implementing Provincial Agriculture Development Plan and Annual Plan ;
4. Co-ordination National and Provincial Level Research Institutes, Universities and other
Agriculture Institutes.
5. Introducting Suitable Technology for Agricultural purposes ;
6. Introducing and selling high quality seeds and ;
7. Introducing Organic and Chemical Manure, chemicals and agriculture equipments ;
8. Register V olunteer Agricutural Organizations ;
9. Implementing credit facility projects for Agricultural purposes ;
10. Launching Agriculture Development Activities based on women’s Farmer Associations,
Young Farmer Associations and Schools ;
11. To Assist Implementing plans to fulfill provincial Food and Nutritional secure Targets ;
12. Preparing Data Systems about Agricultural programs implement within the Province ;
13. Continuing quality of the Agricultural products and implementing pre harvesting
Technological Activities ;
14. Introducing Organic products, Promoting and selling ;
15. Registration of Organic manure and production Institutes based on province and issuing
standered certificates ;
16. Implementing seeds and treat, certify service to fulfill seeds and treating requirements
of the province ;
17.  Issuing Assessment reports of crop disasters and for warding estimates ;
18. Provide Instruction for using Insecticides and  Pesticides ;
19. To provide provisions for the preservation and expand Indigenous and ancestral cultural
activities.
SECTION 3
Provincial Agricultural Committee
19. The Provincial Agriculture Committee hereinafter called as “Committee “shall establish to easy
implementation of the Provincial Agriculture policy Minister of Provincial Agriculture should
be the Chairman of this committee and Secretary of the Agriculture Ministry should be the
secretary of this committee. The committee maintained jointly with the Provincial Animal
Production and Development Committee.
20. This Committee should consist of following members.
1. Members of the Advisory Committee of Agriculture Ministry ;
2. District Secretaries of Puttalam and Kurunegala Districts ;
3. Provincial Director of Agriculture North-Western Province ;
Provincial
Agricultural
Committee
Members of the
Committee

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2011
4. Provincial Director of Animal production and health (North Western Province) ;
5. provincial Commissioner of Land (North Western Province) ;
6. Provincial Director of engineering (North Western Province) ;
7. North western provincial Director of Irrigation ;
8. Deputy / Assistant commissioners of Agrarian services Kurunegala and Puttlam ;
9 General Manager - Human resources development Authority (North Western province) ;
10. General Manager - North Western provincial Development Authority ;
11. Director - provincial Environmental Authority ;
12. Deputy Inspector General of police Kurunegala and Puttlam ;
13. Government Non Government and private sector project Officers related to provincial
Agriculture Animal Production and Irrigation ;
14 Assistant Director of exports Agriculture Kurunegala and Puttlam ;
15. Provincial Manager of Coconut Cultivation Board- North Western Province ;
16. North Western Provincial Manager of Cash nut Cooperation ;
17. District Managers of the Agriculture and Agrarian Insurance Board ;
18. Assistant Director of Aquaculture North Western province ;
19. District officers of Forest Conservation Kurunegala and Puttlam ;
20. Assistant Director of Wild Life North Western Province ;
21. Three Zonal Assistant Directors of Agriculture appoint by the Provincial Agriculture
Director as required ;
22. Director of Provincial Health Service ;
23. Provincial Manager, Paddy Marketing Board
24. Director, National Manure Secretariat ;
25. Divisional State Bank Managers or representative officers ;
26. Main Departmental Heads relating to Agriculture
27. Two Professionals of Agriculture Field ;
28. Two Members of Agriculture Production Organization
29. Two Members of Agrarian Associations ;
30. Representatives of Government, Semi Government Non Government Institutions or
Organizations appointed by the Minister timely ;

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2011
6A
21. Member from 20.1 to 20.25 are appointed by appointing by committee members virtue official
and 20.26 to 20.30 are appointed by the discretion of the minister
22. The Accession period of the members appointed accession period of member by the minister
is two years
23. Vacancy of member ship may be occur due to completion of the appointed by the minister
Resignation of the post , dismiss by the minister with is discretion and the minister should
fill these Vacancies
24. The Committee should meet at least two months .Additional meeting can be called by the
Secretary with the advice of the Chairman if necessary .
25. (1) The Quorum of this committee should be 4/1 of the Members .
(2) No barrier to make decisions by the committee if there is any vacant position of the
member
26. The committee should prepare require procedure to held committee meetings.
27. Task of the Provincial Agriculture Committee
(1) Present and Implement Suggestions and approvals to prepare Policies relating to National
Policies and statute.
(2) Provide advices to Monitor and Implement tasks mentioned in the Statute.
(3) Approval of Provincial Agriculture Plan.
(4) Follow up and Evaluate Provincial Agriculture Plan providing Resources and Assistance
to implement the plan.
(5) Provide necessary decisions when problem occur Implementing and Preparing Provincial
Agriculture Policy in the Province.
(6) Grant approval before start any task by the Institute, Organization, Foundation, Forum,
Project, Program or any other concurrent Institute, Individual or Team of Individual
relating to Provincial Agriculture Expansion, Promotion, Education, Agriculture Services
and Provincial Agriculture Researches.
(7) Cultivate Agricultural Lands to get maximum profits, Restrict who done non agricultural
activities in the agricultural lands and activate rights of “Anda” Farmers.
SECTION 4
Agriculture Product Development Organization
28. Agriculture development V olunteer Organizations can be established hereinafter called as
“Organization” combining farmers who cultivate under advices of the Minister, Secretary and
the Director and such all organizations should register under this department.
29. This Organization should be activate as Agriculture Development Organization Title
30. Department should prepare common Statute for these Organizations and Implement from the
date approved by the Minister. Administrative and Financial Powers are vested in the Minister
31 These Organizations should activate to cultivate any crop or fulfill Agriculture Development
Activities.
Appointing
Committee
Member
Accession period
of members
Cancel the
membership
Committee
Meeting
Quorum
Establish
Agriculture
development
V olunteer
Organizations
and Register
Title of the
Organization
Decisions
Meetings
Powers of Tasks
of the
Committee
Aims of the
Organization

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2011
32 Provincial, Zonal and Divisional Organizations can be established by these Organizations and
Statute of their content, activities and common Provisions should prepared by the Department.
Approval of the Provincial Committee is necessary for this purpose.
33. They can use Government and Non Government project funds to develop their funds.
(l) Appointing Liquidator or Liquidators to close and cancel the registration of the
Organizations.
33. 1.1 Number of members are lower than Tweleve
1.2 If the organization deactivate more than one year from the date of registration
1.3 When request made by the one fourth number of members proceeding organization
is disable to provide welfare facilities to members or activate opposed to objective
of the organization
2 Notification of canceling the organization should be published in trilingual ( Sinhala,
Tamil, English) Newspaper
3 Liquidator or liquidators who appoint to winding up the organization has a power to
33. 3.1 Solve any question relating to priority of the credit holders in the organization
3.2 Sale the property of the organization
3.3 Compound any claim against the organization with a prior approval of the secretary
3.4 Activate to divide assets of the organization correctly
4 When liquidating the organization, first cover the liquidate cost of the Fund and then
release the liabilities. After finishing the liquidation balance should be Credit to the
Deposit Account of the Department.
SECTION 5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
34. Any Institution, Organization, Foundation, Group Obtaining approval for Programe or any
such similar Institution or Indi-agricultural matters Vidsal’s or group of Individuals shall obtain
Approval from the provincial Agricultural committee Prior to the implementation of any
pertaining to agricultural expension, promotion, education on agriculture, providing agriclutural
service or conducting re-searches on the province.
35. All orders issued by the minister as indicated in paragraph 7 about, should be published in
the Gazette and any such Order should be come into force from the dead indicated in The
Order
36. All orders main by the Minister should be submitted for the Approval for the provincial Council
after the Gazette Notification All orders which were not approval by the Provincial Councils
should be separated with out prejudice To any previous activities implementation and should
be Published in the Gazette
37. Any person who breach, neglects or will fully obstruct any Order or provision of this Statute
or any order made under the Statute shall be an offender under this statute
38. The Provincial Director or any person assigned by him shall have the authority to file legal
action against any offender who violates this statute
Liquidate and
Cancel the
Registration

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'25
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.03.2011
8A
39. Any person who does and offence punishable under this statute can be brought before a
Magistrate and after a summery trial ,is liable to be imposed a fine of not exceeding Rs 20,000/
and further punishment of a jail sentence of not exceeding 6 months or either of the above or
both at the same time.
SECTION 6
INTERPRETATION
In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires
“Provincial Council” means North Western Provincial Council
“Governor” means Governor of the North Western Provincial Council
“Minister” means Secretary of the Agriculture Ministry of the North-Western Province
“Secretary” means Secretary of the Agriculture Ministry of the North Western Province
“Department” means department of Agriculture North Western Province
“Director” means Director of Agriculture North-Western Province
“Agriculture” means Cultivation and Protection of crops (other than Plantation crops and Gazette as
Export Development Crops) with or without commercial purposes to ensure food and nutritional secure
of the people
“Agriculture Promotion” means development of agricultural resources to a maximum level
“Agriculture Expansion” means mediate to provide resources, assists to implement and introduce new
technological methods within farmers and other interested groups to uplift food production and
development, crop production, and coir production
“Agriculture Education” means Implement, Assist and Introduce new technological methods to farmers
and other interested groups to uplift crop production to prepare foods and coir products and provide
knowledge and develop abilities and attitudes of farmers and other interested groups.
“Agricultural Services” means provide required material or non material and live or non live infrastructure
facilities to reach expected Agriculture expansion and development aims of the province
“Provincial base Agriculture Research” means Agriculture researches done by the provincial level (not
for build up basic theories) to solve technical problems and related problems and getting approval
for introduced technical relevance’s
“Agriculture Committee” means Agriculture Committee of the North Western Province
“Agriculture Production Society” mean collective farmers organizations based on agriculture
production promoting aims
“Farmer Organization Committee” means units combine with the farmer’s organizations and production
societies
41. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Interpretation
04 - 319