

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
RIGHT TO FREE EDUCATION
————————
[Bill No. 69]
————————
Presented by Hon. Akila Wiraj Kariyawasam M. P. for
Kurunegala District on 08th February, 2011
(Published in the Gazette on January 17, 2011)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-2d
2-
to provide access to Free Education to all Children in Sri Lanka

<!-- page 2 -->

1Right to Free Education
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 005400—330  (12/2010)
Preamble.
A N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  ACCESS  TO  FREE  EDUCATION  TO  ALL
C HILDREN  IN SRI LANKA
WHEREAS it has become necessary to ensure that all children
of Sri Lanka be provided with free education upto at least
the Secondary Level:
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Right to Free Education
Act, No.    of 2011.
RIGHT  TO  FREE  AND  COMPULSORY  EDUCATION
2. (1) Every child from the age of five years shall have a
right to free education in a prescribed school till completion
of his/her education as set out.
(2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), no child shall be
liable to pay any kind of fee or charge or expense other than
prescribed under the law which may prevent him or her from
pursuing and completing such education.
3. (1) Where in a school, there is no provision for
completion of education, a child shall have a right to seek
transfer to any other prescribed school, in accordance with
such regulations or directives issued by the appropriate
authority.
(2) Where a child is required to move from one school
to another, either within the Province or outside, for any
reason whatsoever, such child shall have a right to seek
transfer to any other prescribed school, in accordance with
such regulations or directives issued by the appropriate
authority.
Short title.
Right of
child to free
and
compulsory
education.
Right of
transfer to
other school.

<!-- page 3 -->

Right to Free Education2
5
10
15
20
25
DUTIES  OF  APPROPRIATE  AUTHORITY  AND  PARENTS
4. The Appropriate Authority shall be obliged to the
following, while giving full effect to the provisions of the
School Development Boards Act, No. 8 of 1993, the National
Child Protection Authority Act, No. 50 of 1998, Part II of the
Tsunami (Special Provisions) Act, No. 16 of 2005 and the
Prevention of Domestic Violence Act, No. 34 of 2005 in so
far as it relates to children and the Convention on the Rights
of the Child signed by Sri Lanka on 12th July 1991 more
particularly as set out in the Schedule hereto:
(a) provide free education in a Prescribed school to
every child commencing at the age of five years
until the completion of his or her education as
specified in paragraph (b);
Provided that where a child is admitted by his
or her parents or guardian, as the case may be, in a
school other than a prescribed school, such child
or his or her parents or guardian, as the case may
be, shall not be entitled to make a claim for
reimbursement of expenditure incurred on the
education of the child in such other school.
(b) provide free education to every child of the age of
five upto class thirteen subject to him/her being
successfully qualified at any public examination
referred to in Section 5 (1);
(c) ensure admission, attendance and completion of
education of every child;
(d) ensure availability of a state school for fulfilling
the objectives of Section 2;
(e) provide infrastructure including school building,
teaching staff and learning equipment; and
(f) provide training facility for teachers.
Duties of
Appropriate
Authority.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Right to Free Education
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. (1) The Minister may by order made in the Gazette
specify any Public Examination conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations as a qualification
necessary to proceed to the next year of studies.
(2) A child suffering from a disability shall also have the
right to pursue free education in a manner provided by the
Minister in accordance with a regulation made under this Act.
6. (1) The Appropriate Authorities shall have the
responsibilities of obtaining funds for carrying out the
provisions of this Act.
(2) Starting from the year 2012 the Minister shall with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance submit to Parliament
a report on the five year estimate of the total capital and
recurrent expenditure required by all the Appropriate
Authorities for implementing the provisions of this Act.
(3) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance when
presenting the Budget to Parliament or the Provincial
Council, as the case may be, shall make a statement in regard
to compliance with the estimates.
(4) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance may
amend this report from time to time.
(5) The President may make a reference to the Finance
Commission to examine the need for any additional resources
to provide for Provincial Executive so that the said Provincial
Executive may provide these funds for implementing the
provisions of this Act.
(6) Every Provincial Executive shall take into
consideration the sums provided by the Government to the
said Provincial Executive under the above mentioned sub
section and its other resources, and be responsible to provide
funds for implementation of the provisions of this Act.
General
promotional
examination.
Sharing of
financial
responsibilities.

<!-- page 5 -->

Right to Free Education4
5
10
15
20
25
7. It shall be the duty of every parent or guardian to
admit or cause to be admitted his or her child or ward, as the
case may be, to a school education in a prescribed school.
R
ESPONSIBILITIES  OF  SCHOOLS  AND  TEACHERS
8. No school or person shall, while admitting a child,
collect any fee.
9. (1) The use of students in any activity other than
school activities, national day, religious functions and visits
of foreign state dignitaries shall be prohibited.
(2) The Minister shall before 31 October of every year,
Gazette the school calendar for the following year including
the days on which examinations would be held.
(3) The Minister shall prescribe the minimum number of
working days for the academic year provided it shall not be
less than 180 days.
(4) When dates are fixed for examinations, it shall not be
changed by the Minister without the permission of
Parliament other than in emergencies such as natural
disasters.
(5) The Commissioner General of Elections shall not fix
elections to conflict with the period of examinations.
10. (1) Teachers recruited should have teaching
qualifications listed in the 9th Schedule, Appendix III item
4. Any other selection/recruitment will be on the basis of
recruitment examinations as outlined in Appendix III item 5.
(2) Promotion scheme for Principals and teachers will be
based solely on merit and seniority.
11. (1) Every teacher shall perform the following duties,
namely:—
(a) maintain regularity and punctuality in attending
school;
Duty of
parents and
guardians.
No Fee to be
charged.
Functions of
the Minister.
Teachers.
Duties of
teachers and
redress of
grievances.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Right to Free Education
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) conduct and complete the curriculum in accordance
with the provisions of sub-section (2) of section
29;
(c) complete entire curriculum within the specified
time;
(d) assess the learning ability of each child and
accordingly supplement additional instructions as
required;
(e) hold regular meetings with parents and guardians
and apprise them about the regularity in attendance,
ability to learn, progress made in learning and any
other relevant information about the child; and
(f) perform such other duties as may be prescribed.
(2) A teacher committing default in performance of duties
specified in sub-section (1) shall be liable to  disciplinary
action under the service rules applicable to him or her;
Provided that before taking such disciplinary action,
reasonable opportunity of being heard shall be afforded to
such teacher.
(3) The grievances, if any of the teacher shall be redressed
in such manner as may be prescribed.
12. (1) Within one year from the date of commencement
of this Act, the Appropriate Authority shall ensure that the
Pupil-Teacher Ratio as prescribed is maintained in each
school.
(2) For the purpose of maintaining the Pupil-Teacher
Ratio under sub-section (1), no teacher posted in a school
shall be made to serve in any other school or office or
deployed for any non-educational purpose, other than those
specified in section 13.
Pupil-
Teacher
Ratio.

<!-- page 7 -->

Right to Free Education6
5
10
15
20
25
(3) For the purpose of implementing the provisions of this
Act priority will be given in the posting of teachers.  No teacher
shall be posted outside a Province unless the relevant ratio
has been maintained in all the schools of the Province.
13. No teacher shall be deployed for any non-
educational purposes other than the decennial population
census, disaster relief duties or duties relating to elections.
PROTECTING  THE  RIGHTS  OF  CHILDREN
14. (1) The Appropriate Authority shall give full effect
to the provisions of National Child Protection Authority
Act, No. 50 of 1998.
(2) After receiving the complaint under sub-section (1),
the Council shall decide the matter within a period of three
months after affording a reasonable opportunity of being
heard to the parties concerned.
(3) The Advisory Council for each Province shall forward
its decision to the relevant Appropriate Authority for the
redress of grievances.
(4) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Appropriate Authority may prefer an appeal to the High
Court of the Province.
15. There shall be an Advisory Council for each
Province consisting of 15 members of whom, 07 shall be
from the National Child Protection Authority, 07 shall be
persons appointed by the Provincial Executives. The
Chairman shall be appointed by the Minister.
16. (1) The functions of the Advisory Council shall be:
(a) Advise the Provincial Executive on measures—
(i) to ensure the right of child to universal and
equal access to free school education;
Prohibition
of
deployment
of teachers
for non-
educational
purposes.
Redress of
grievances.
Constitution
of the
National
Advisory
Council.
Constitution
of the
Provincial
Advisory
Council.
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Right to Free Education
5
10
15
20
25
30
(ii)promote the interests of children so as to
ensure their full development physical,
mental, moral, religious, and social, and to
protect them exploitation and discrimination;
and
(iii)to ensure for all children and students the
right to universal and equal access to school
education,
(b) to submit reports to the National Child Protection
Authority on the implementation within the
Province of the provisions of Section 16(1)(a);
(c) to inquire and recommend redress under Section
16.
(2) The Minister shall prescribe all provisions for the
functioning of the Council under Section 7 including the
powers and the procedures of the Council.
(3) The allowances and other terms and conditions of
appointment of members of the Advisory Council shall be
such as may be prescribed by the relevant Appropriate
Authority.
17. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:—
(a) “Appropriate Authority” means—
(i) in relation to a state school controlled by the
Government, the “Government”; and
(ii)in relation to a state school, other than
the school referred to in sub clause (i), a
state school controlled by  “the Provincial
Executive”,
(b) “child” means a child of five years of age on the
31st of January of the year of entry;
Interpretation.

<!-- page 9 -->

Right to Free Education8
(c) “guardian”, in relation to a child, means a person
having the care and custody of that child and
includes a natural guardian or guardian appointed
or declared by a court or a statute;
(d) “Minister” means the Minister in-charge of the
subject of education of the Appropriated Authority
as the case may be;
(e) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under
this Act;
(f) “Prescribed Schools” shall mean State schools
coming under the Government in accordance with
item 3 of List I of the 9th Schedule of the
Constitution;
(g) “the Provincial Executive” means Provincial Board
of Ministers for each Province acting under  Article
154 (f) of the Constitution or the President or the
Governor or any other person exercising powers
under Article 154 (l) of the Constitution;
(h) “Schedule” means the Schedule annexed to this
Act;
(i) “School education” means the education from the
grade one to the grade thirteen subject to any public
examination.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 10 -->

9Right to Free Education
SCHEDULE
1. The Appropriate Authority recognizes the right of the child
to education, and with a view to achieving this right progressively
and on the basis of equal opportunity, they shall, in particular—
(a) make primary education available free to all;
(b) encourage the development of different forms of secondary
education, including general and vocational education,
make them available and accessible to every child, and take
appropriate measures such as the introduction of free
education and offering financial assistance in case of need;
(c) make educational and vocational information and guidance
available and accessible to all children;
(d) take measures to encourage regular attendance at schools
and the reduction of drop-out rates.
2. The Appropriate Authority shall take all appropriate measure
to ensure that school discipline is administered in a manner consistent
with the child’s human dignity and in conformity with the present
Convention.
3. The appropriate authority shall promote and encourage
international cooperation in matters relating to education, in particular
with a view to contributing to the elimination of ignorance and illiteracy
throughout the world and facilitating access to scientific and technical
knowledge and modern teaching methods. In this regard, particular
account shall be taken of the needs of developing countries.
4. The appropriate authority recognizes the right of the child to
the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health and to
facilities for the treatment of illness and rehabilitation of health. States
Parties shall strive to ensure that no child is deprived of his or her
right of access to such health care services.
5. The appropriate authority shall take all appropriate measures,
including legislative, administrative, social and educational measures,
to protect children from the illicit use of narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances as defined in the relevant international treaties,
and to prevent the use of children in the illicit production and
trafficking of such substances.

<!-- page 11 -->

Right to Free Education10
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AW ATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.