

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
451
451
wxl 1"646 - 2010 ud¾;= ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'03'19
No. 1,646 – FRIDAY , MARCH 19, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 421
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 453
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 26th March, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th
March, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
452
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
453
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO POSTS OF CLASS II B OF RESEARCH ASSISTANT OF
SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE – 2009
THE paragraphs 02, 06 and 09 of the notification published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,023 dated
09.10.2009 for the Recruitment to Posts of Class IIB of Research Assistant of Sri Lanka Tehcnological Service are hereby amende d as
follows :
02. Examination.– The examinatin will be held in April, 2010 in Kandy by the Director General Animal Production and Health.
The Director General reserves the right of postponing or canceling of the examination.
06. Educational Qualifications.– Should fulfill the following qualifications as at 31.03.2010.
09. Method of application.– The application should be prepared according to the specimen application published in the Gazette
Notification dated 09.10.2009. The application prepared on 8 1/2" x 12" (A4) size paper using both sides of it should be posted  under
registered cover to reach the Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya on or before
31.03.2010. The words "competitive examination for the recruitment to the posts of Research assistant" should be written clearly on the top
left hand corner of the envelope the applications received after this date will be rejected.
H. M. S. P . HERATH,
Director General-Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya,
05th February, 2010.
03–709
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT
Calling applications to fill the Vacancies in the Posts of Veterinary Surgeon and Veterinary Research
Officer in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal production and Health Service – 2010
APPLICATIONS are being called from the citizens of Sri Lanka with relevant qualifications to be selected for the posts of Research Officer
and Livestock Officer in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service in which the vacancies are available as at
30.06.2010. Applications should be prepared on A4 size papers using both sides of it according to the specimen application atta ched
herewith and forward the same on or before 30.04.2010 to reach the Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health, P. O.
Box 13, Gatembe, Peradeniya under registered cover.
Note :
(i) The complaints with regard to a loss of an application or delayed in the post will not be considered and the candidates
should undertake the risk of delaying the application until the last date. The worlds "Application for the post of Veterinary
Surgeon/Veterinary Research Officer in class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service" should be
marked on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. (Write the name of the Post you applied
only).
(ii) The applications of the applicants who have not fulfilled the basic qualifications will be rejected.
(iii) The applicants who will be recruited for the posts of Veterinary Surgeon should be served in the North and East provinces
for five years from the date of the appointment.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
454
02. Terms and conditions of Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected applicant should contribute for the Widows/Widowers and Orphans'
Pensions Fund.
(ii) The selected candidate will be appointed to the Scheduled post in the Sri Lank Animal Products and Health Service as
applied by them.
(iii) The other terms and conditions of the service will be applied as per the Service Minute of Animal Production and Health
Service published in the Gazetted dated 31.10.1980 and the amendments for it, issued from time to time ; and
Provisions refers in the Establishment Code and the rules of the Public Service Commission published in the Gazette
Number 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and the terms of the Public Administrations circulars issued time to time.
03. Salary Scale.– According to the Public Administrations Circular 6/2006 the relevant salary scale for the posts in Class II Grade
II of the Animal Productions and Health Service is SL–1-2006 entitle from step I to step II (Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 -1 7x1,050 -
Rs. 53,555). The salaries will be paid as per the circular. The first Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed before reaching the 4th step
of the salary scale and the Second Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed before reaching the 7th step of the salary scale.
04. General Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should be not less than 20 years and not more than 35 years of age.
(c) The maximum age limit should be 40 years for the applicants with postgraduate qualifications.
(d) Should be physically fit and with excellent moral character, the physical fitness should be proved by medical certificates.
(e) The graduates in Veterinary Science should be registered in the Sri Lnaka Veterinary Council before the closing date of the
application.
05. Educational Qualifications :
(1) Post of Veterinary Surgeon.– A four year degree in Veterinary Science obtained from a recognized University.
(2) Veterinary Research Officer.– Four year degree obtained from a recognized in a University with a first or second class
upper.
Note :
(i) The candidates should obtain the required qualificatins with regard to the degree prescribed as a basic qualification on or
before the closing date of the application. The effective date of the degree certificate should be the closing date of the
application or date before that.
(ii) The applications which are awaiting results will not be entertained.
06. Method of Recruitment :
(a) The recruitment for the vacancies available in the Posts of Veterinary Surgeon and Veterinary Research Officer will be made
on the merit list issued by the Faculty of Veterinary Science of the University of Peradeniya. The applicants who have
obtained the Veterinary Science Degree from a recognized foreign University should be registered in the Sri Lanka
Veterinary Council in the relevant year in which they have fulfilled the qualifications and will be placed according to the
order at the end of the merit list.
(b) If a candidate has the relevant qualifications, he can apply for the posts of Veterinary Surgeon and Veterinary Research
Officer separately.
(c) Applicants will be called for the interview based on the No. of vacancies allocated according to the order of the merit list
and recruitment will be made accordingly. No marks will be given at the interview.
07. Candidates will be required to produce the following documents at the interview when informed :
(i) Certificate of Birth,
(ii) Degree and/or highest educational certificates,
(iii) Two certificates of character obtained recently, one should be from the Director of the Course and the other one from a
Professor or from a Lecturer of the University.,
(iv) Certificates of the highest examinations passed in Sinhala, Tamil or English,
(v) Certificates of registration as a Veterinary Surgeon in the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
455
08. Other Conditions :
(i) The Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking decisions pertaining to the matters to which the regulations that
have not been given in these Gazette Notifications.
(ii) The Public Service Commission reserves the decision of filling or not filling or filling several posts only.
(iii) If the Sinhala, Tamil and English version of the Gazette Notifications are non-consistence then the Sinhala version will be
accepted.
(iv) If it reveals that a candidate has not fulfilled the required qualifications his candidature wll be cancelled.
(v) If it reveals that a candidate has submitted false information knowingly or concealed important reasons he/she will be
dismissed from service.
SUNIMAL SENARATNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock Development.
Ministry of Livestock Development,
No. 45, St. Michael Road,
Colombo 03,
26th February, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICATIONS
A
PPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF VETERINARY SURGEON/VETERINARY RESEARCH OFFICER IN CLASS II GRADE II OF THE
SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE
For Office use
01. (i) Name with initials (in Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name denoted by initials (in block capitals - English) :
02. N. I. C. No. :
03. Postal address (Change of the address should be informed immediately) :––––––––––––.
04. The permanent address is belonged :
(i) Provincial Council :––––––––––––.
(ii) District :––––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––––, Month :––––––––––––, Date :––––––––––––.
Age as at the closing date of the application :
Date of Birth :
Years :––––––––––––, Months :––––––––––––, Days :––––––––––––.
06. ( a) Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––––.
(b) Nationality :
(Sinhala - 1, Sri Lanka Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
07. ( a) Sex :
(b) Civil Status :
Unmarried/married/widow (Indicate the relevant no in the cage)
08. Educational Qualification :
Degree/Post Graduate Qualifications Class University Year
1.
2.
3.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
456
09. Registration No of the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council and the date :––––––––––––.
10. Service particulars (If you hold a permanent post at present) :
The post held Period of service Place of work Department/
at present From                         To Provincial Council
11. If you apply for more than one post preference should be given for the consideration at the interview :
(i) ––––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––––.
12. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any particulars are
found to be false or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to dismissals without compensation if detect ed after
appointment. I also certify that I have not being convicted for any criminal offence by any court of law.
–––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
RECOMMENDATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I declare that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .......................... is holding the post of ............... in this Department/Provincial C ouncil and the
particulars stated in the application are accurate when checked with his/her personal file. He/She can be released/cannot be released from
Department/Provincial/Public service if selected for this post. (Delete the words not relevant)
––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
(Official Stamp).
Date :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
03–710
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS II B OF THE
SRI LANKA  LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS SERVICE – 2009
THE paragraphs 02, 06 and 09 of the notification published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1023 dated
09.10.2009 for the Recruitment to Class II of the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers Service are hereby amended as follows :
02. Examination.– The examination will be held in April, 2010 in Kandy by the Director General Animal Production and Health.
The Director General reserves the right of postponing or canceling of the examination.
06. Educational Qualifications.– Should fulfill the following qualifications as at 31.03.2010.
09. Method of application.– The application should be prepared according to the specimen application published in the Gazette
Notification dated 09.10.2009. The application prepared on 8 1/2" x 12" (A4) size paper using both sides of it should be posted  under
registered cover to reach the Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya on or before

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
457
31.03.2010. The words "competitive examination for the recruitment to the post of Livestock Development Officer" should be writ ten
clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope the applications received after this date will be rejected.
H. M. S. P . HERATH,
Director General Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya,
05th February, 2010.
03–711
1ST  AND  2ND  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION
AND  SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  THE
OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  FOREIGN
SERVICE – 2010
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination and the
Second Language Test for Officers in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service
will be held in Colombo and in Sri Lanka Missions abroad in June
2010.
02. The Time Table would be prepared enabling the candidates
to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. Syllabus - Syllabus and other Provisions by which the First
and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations are governed are indicated
in the respective Service Minute.
Syllabus and other provisions for the Second Language Test are
indicated in Appendix “A” whiles   the syllabus and other provision
for the First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers
of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service are indicated in Appendix “B”.
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar
Examinations at one or more sittings. Action will be taken to conduct
Oral Tests for the officers who sit for the Second Language Test at
the same venue at the same time.
04. Subjects for which the officers in Sri Lanka Foreign Service
should appear in the Efficiency Bar  as follows:
Sri Lanka Foreign Service
1ST EFFICIENCY BAR
Part I
Subject Subject Duration
No.  hours
01 Finance 3
02 History and Geography of Sri Lanka 3
Part II
03 Elementary Constitutional Law
and International Law 3
04 Diplomatic Practice 3
05 International Affairs 3
06 The Sri Lanka Foreign Service
Minute, Foreign Ministry
Regulations and Computer
Literacy
Foreign Languages
Subject Subject Duration
No.  hours
07 Arabic 2
08 French 2
09 Russian 2
10 Spanish 2
11 Hindi 2
12 Chinese 2
13 German 2
14 Japanese 2
15 English 2
2ND EFFICIENCY BAR
Part I
Subject Subject Duration
No.  hours
21 Economic & Social Development
in Sri Lanka 3
22 Administration 3
(a) Office Systems & Organization
and Methods
(b) Establishment Code
  (V olume I & V olume II)
Part II
23 Elementary Constitutional Law
and International Law 3
24 Diplomatic Practice 3
25 International Affairs 3
Subject Subject Duration
No.  hours

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
458
Second Languages:
Subject Subject Duration
No.  hours
30 Sinhala (Written) 2
31 Tamil (Written) 2
32 English (Written) 2
33 Sinhala (Oral)
34 Tamil (Oral)
35 English (Oral)
05. The attention of the Officers sitting for these Efficiency Bar
Examination is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular No.
701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :-
“Departmental examination (including Promotional and
Efficiency Bar Examination).  The medium for Promotional
Examination as well as Efficiency Bar Examination should be the
language in which the officer sat the Competitive Examination to
enter the Public Service or the Official Language. In case where
initial recruitment took place without competitive examination, the
medium for Promotional/Efficiency Bar Examination should be the
language in which the officer qualified for entry into the Public
Service or the Official Language.”
06 Arrangements to answer the question papers, except for
foreign languages will be made by the Commissioner General of
Examinations for the candidates in Sinhala, Tamil or English
languages. Medium applied to sit for the exam cannot be changed.
07.  If a candidate is later found to have sat in a medium in which
he/she is not entitled to sit his candidature will be cancelled.
08. Candidates should submit their applications according to
the subjoined form on A4 sheet or foolscap paper. Both sides of the
paper should be used.  Applicants should prepare application as
follows. No. 1 – 08 should be in the first page and balance should be
in the second page. Applicants should fill the application on their
own hand writing clearly. Applications do not submit as per the
forms of specimen appended to this notification and incomplete
applications will be rejected without prior notice. Candidates
appearing for both Examinations should submit separate
applications in respect of each Examination.
09. The Examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the rules
and regulations prescribed by the Commissioner General for the
conduct of the examination.
10. All applicants should send their applications to the Overseas
Administration Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to
forward them to the Commissioner-General of Examinations, on or
before 16.04.2010. (Those who are serving in Sri Lanka Missions
abroad should send their applications through the Heads of Mission.)
Any Application received after the above closing date will be rejected.
11. If a candidate does not receive his/her admission card, he/she
should communicate without delay to the Commissioner General
of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Organization &
Foreign Examinations Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.  (Telegraphic
Address “Exams” Battaramulla) informing that he/she has not
received the admission form and providing following information:-
(1)  Name of Examination;
(2) Full name ;
(3) Full Postal Address ;
12. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to
comply with the requirements as stipulated in paragraph 11 above
will not be entertained.
13. The following are the documents of Identity acceptable at
the examination center.
(1) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons.
(2) Valid Passport.
14. It has been decided to charge fees from candidates who
appear for this examination on the following basis:
(a) First sitting (whole examination or part thereof) free of
charge;
(b) Each subsequent sitting
Rs.  c.
Complete examination 115.00
One Subject   70.00
Oral Test  70.00
The fees should be paid to any District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat credited to the revenue head 20-03-20-13 and
the receipt should be attached to the application.
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are
required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above.
C. R. J
AYASINGHE,
 Secretary / Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
19th March, 2010.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
459
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS – SRI LANKA
                                                            For office use only
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION AND THE TEST OF
THE SECOND LANGUAGE FOR OFFICERS OF THE SRI
LANKA FOREIGN SERVICE -2010
           Medium Sinhala- 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Please mark appropriate number in the cage).
01. (a) (i) Last name with initials :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
  (ii) Last name with initials :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals.  Put the initials after the last
name.  Eg. SILV A, A.B.)
(b) (i) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
  (ii) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
02. Address (for dispatch of admission cards) :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. Date of Birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Sex :
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage
Male – 0, Female – 1)
06. Date of appointment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service:-
Date: Month: Y ear:
07. Present post:-
08. The name of examination  applied for
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
Subject Relevant
No.
E.B 1 1
E.B. 2 2
Second Language 3
Foreign Language 4
09. Subjects offered should be clearly stated with the subject
numbers given in Para 04 of the notification. (Applicants will
be allowed to sit for subjects indicated in the application only.)
Subject Subject No.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
10. State whether the applicant had appeared for the whole
examination or part thereof previously.  If so, state the index
number, subjects, year and month:
I declare that the information furnished above is accurate and
that I am eligible to sit for this examination in the language
medium indicated above. I abide rules and regulations laid down
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
The receipt No: ……………. for payment of examination fee
is annexed.
Fee paid:  Rs……………
––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Original Receipt should be pasted here
Commissioner-General of examinations,
Forwarded –
Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………….. whose details are given  above
is eligible to appear for this examination indicted by him/her. I also
attest the applicant’s signature.
–––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of the
   Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––.
APPENDIX “A”
Sinhala
The Test in Sinhala will consist of a Written and on Oral part.
The written paper will be of two hours duration and will contain
questions on :
(i) Grammer,
(ii) Translation of Sinhala Language petitions or reports from
Gramaseva Niladharis into English,
(iii) Translation of an official document in English into
Sinhalese.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
460
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(i) Dictation of official material in English into Sinhala so
that the passage can be understood and taken down in
writing by a Sinhalese speaking person,
(ii) Reading of a petition in Sinhalese,
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation . – The purpose of the
test will be to assess the candidates’ power of
understanding Sinhala Language as it is spoken by
different native speakers and of making himself/herself
understood both in common conversation and in the usual
course of official business.
Tamil
The Test of Tamil Language will consist of a written and oral
section.
The written paper which will be of two hour duration, will
contain questions on :
(i) Grammer,
(ii) T ranslation of Tamil Language petitions or reports from
Gramaseva Niladharis written in different running hands
into English,
(iii) Translation of an official paper or document in English
into Tamil.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(i) Dictation of official material in English in to Tamil so that
the passage can be understood and taken down in writing
by a Tamil speaking person.
(ii) Reading of a petition in Tamil,
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation . – The purpose of the
test will be to assess the candidates’ power of
understanding Tamil of different native speakers and of
making himself/herself  understand both in common
conversation and in the usual course of official business.
English
The English paper will be of two hour duration and will contain
questions on :
(i)   Grammar
(ii) Comprehension
(iii) Précis writing
(iv) Report and letter writing
(v) V ocabulary
A prototype of the question papers is furnished below for the
information of candidates:-
Part A
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb given within
brackets :-
During the last war our country …………1 (be) a British Colony
…………….2 (take) a full part in the war effort.  Consequently
our tea, rubber and coconut ……….. 3 (ship) to Britain at very
favourable prices and the foreign exchange we …………. 4 (earn)
……………5 (accumulate) as assets.  Again during the Korean war
in the early fifties our products ………….. 6 (fetch) good prices
and we ……………..7 (not have) any exchange problem.  However,
political independence ……….. 8 (not given rise) to any effort to
…………….9 (build up) our economy we ……………….10 (be) a
nation of consumers and we ……………11 (Squander) our foreign
exchange on consumer goods which ……………….. 12 (can
produce) locally and incidentally diversified our economy.  Over
the last decade we ………… 13 (begin) to feel the pinch when our
primary products …………… 14 (fail) to command good prices in
the world market while our requirements of food both rice and
subsidiary food stuffs ………….. 15 (rise) in price.
(b) Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition (where necessary)
As Assistant Secretary …………… 16 charge …………… 17
subjects, it was my duty to convene groups of officers dealing
………… 18 different aspects of development work in the Ministry
………. 19 time to time.  They discussed ………… 20 various
problems that they confronted and which they could not cope
……… 21 on their own.  We were thus able to share our experience
……… 22 each other and make concrete proposals ……….. 23
the Secretary every month.  He in turn put ………. 24 his own
plans for discussion ……………. 25 these meetings.
(c) Underline the correct letters given within brackets that would
complete the spelling of the following words.
26. har……………… ment (rass/as/ass).
27. ember…………… (rass/as/ass).
28. tol………….. (arreance/erance/erence).
29. Par…………..arian (liament/limen/liment).
30. bal……………ing (let/lat/lot).
31. itin………… (erary/arary/erarie)
32. Pers…………… (everance/everence/ewerence).
33. bour…………… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy).
34. prolet …………. (ariet/ariat/eriyat).
35. Com……………… ate (memorr/emor/memor).
(d) In each of the following statements underline the correct word
within brackets:-
36. The inventory was checked by the Board of (Survellance/
Survey/Surveyours).
37. At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the accused officer
had (contradicted /contravened/ contaminated) the regulations.
38. Every receipt should have a (counterfoil / counterfeit /
counterpane) for the purpose of audit.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
461
39. There was a possibility that the prosecution had (fabricated
/ fumigated / promulgate) the evidence.
40. (Discrete/Discretionary/Discriminatory) power was given to
the Head of the Department under the relevant Act.
41. The Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush until the bribe
taker arrived.
42. The entire staff turned upon (facilitate / infiltrate / felicitate )
the watcher on his retirement.
43. In times of national crisis we must avoid (luxuriant/luxurious)
habits.
44. Martial music was played over the radio during height of the
battle to keep up the (moral/morale/morals) of the people.
45. Candidates are advised to use (Stationary / Stationery)
sparingly owing to the acute paper shortage.
(e)Underline the correct phase in the brackets that means the same
as the word or phrase underlined in each sentence :--
46. In good management the boss should, support his staff in
their work (back out / back up / back away).
47. The sales and replacement of stock amounted to over
Rs. 5,000 (turn out / turn up / turn away).
48. We were warned at the start not to let out work get into
arrears (set out /outset).
49. They younger son wasted his father’s wealth in a few years
(ran over/ran through).
50. I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred me from going
(put away / put off).
Part B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the
questions set out below :
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, liberty,
constitutional government, and respect for the law or at least the
definitions of them, began with the reflection of Greek thinkers
upon the institutions of City State.  But in the long history of
political thought the meaning of such terms has been variously
modified and always that meaning has to be understood in the light
of the institutions by which the indicates were to be realized and of
the society in which those institutions did their work.  The Greek
City States was so different from the political communities in
which modern men live that it requires no small effort of the
imagination to picture its social and political life.  The Greek
Philosophers were thinking of political practices far different from
any that have prevailed commonly in modern world, and the whole
climate of opinion in which the work was done was different.  Their
problems though not without their analogies in the preset, were
never identical with modern problems, and the ethical apparatus by
which political life was evaluated and criticized varied widely from
any that now prevails.  In order to understand at all accurately
what their theories meant is necessary first to realize at least roughly
what kind of institutions they had in view and what citizenship
connected, as an effect and as an ideal, to the public for whom they
wrote.  For this purpose the Government of Athens-is especially
important, partly because it is the best known, but chiefly because
it was an object of special concern to the greatest of Greek
Philosophers.
As compared with modern states the ancient City-State was
exceedingly small both in area and in population.  The numbers
were exceedingly uncertain but, a figure somewhat in excess of
three hundred thousand would be approximately correct.  Such an
arrangement of a small territory dominated by a single City was
typical off the City State.
In each of the following cases, choose the alternative which in
your opinion supports the views expressed in the above passage.
Place a tick (right mark) against the correct answer:-
51. Athens is significant for the students of Greek political thought
mainly because:-
(a) it was the most powerful of the Greek City-States;
(b) its ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks
themselves ;
(c) it had the most ideal form of Government ;
(d) it is the best known of the Greek City-States.
52. Greek political thought was concerned with problems:-
(a) entirely unrelated to,
(b) identical with,
(c) different from Analogous but to,
53. The moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is :-
(a) very similar to modern moral and religious ideas ;
(b) unknown ;
(c) very different from modern moral and religious ideas.
54. It is :-
(a) easy,
(b) not at all easy,
(c) impossible,
for a modern man to imagine what life was like in a Greek
City-State.
55. In comparison with the ancient Greek City States are :-
(a) very large,
(b) very small,
(c) about the same size.
56. The population of an ancient Greek City States was :-
(a) much less that 300,000
(
b) over 3 million,
(c) just over 300,000

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
462
57. The City-State of Athens comparisons :-
(a) a small territory governed by a singly city,
(b) a large territory governed by a number of cities,
(c) a small territory with village councils,
(d) a large territory with a decentralized administration.
58. At different times in the history of the world people :-
(a) have thought in basically the same way,
(b) have thought in different ways,
(c) have contradicted the views of people of the previous
generation.
59. Details of political theory are derived from Greek Political
thought :-
(a) because the Greek City States was very    similar to modern
states,
(b) inspite of Greek City State being very different from modern
States,
(c) because modern political theorists are students of Greek
Philosophy.
60. The meaning of political ideal at a particular moment in
European History since the time of the Greeks can be defined
only be:-
(a) relating it to its context,
(b) Tracing it back to its original meaning among the Greeks,
(c) Investigating the meaning of the Greek word for it,
(d) Taking into account only those features in it which have
persisted through out its history.
61. Write sentences using each of the following words so as  to
bring out its meaning clearly:-
Arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidate, hypothetical,
retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, review, empower.
EITHER
62. Write a letter to the Head of an Educational Institute in an
English speaking country, setting out the following information
in an orderly manner:-
(i) The equivalence of our examination certificate to the
certificate specified in this letter cannot be determined as
the examining authorities in Sri Lanka have not been
consulted by the institution concerned in that country,
(ii) The G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Credit Pass has been
officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in London G .C.E.
(Ordinary Level),
(iii) The receipt of the letter sent to the Commissioner of
Examinations is acknowledged,
(iv) Any further information in this matter may be obtained
from the Embassy of the Republic of Sri Lanka in that
country.
63. Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of Standards
marking out a case for the adoption of the 24 hours clock in
this country stating the advantages of such a measure.
APPENDIX  “B”
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATIONS FOR OFFICERS IN
THE SRI LANKA FOREIGN SERVICE
1. First Efficiency Bar Examination :
1.1 The First Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of two
parts and officers may take both at one sitting or
separately.
1.2 Part I – An examination in the following subjects :-
(i) Finance – The Examination in Finance will be based on
the following:
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri
Lanka. Part I (Expect Chapter X):
(b) The estimates of the current year . E.g.  Their
arrangement the heads of revenue, the Finance and
Appropriation Acts.
(c) Ordinance relating to specific accounts dealing within
Kachcheries.
(ii) History and Geography of Sri Lanka – This paper will be
of three-hour duration.  Candidates are required to obtain
a minimum of 40% marks for a pass.
1.3 Part II – Special Papers :-
(i) Elementary Constitutional Law and International Law;
(ii) Diplomatic Practice ;
(iii) International Affairs ;
(iv) The Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute, Foreign Ministry
Regulations and Computer Literacy.
1.3.1. Each paper in this part will be of three hour duration
and candidates are required to obtain a minimum of
40% marks in each paper for a pass.
1.3.2. An officer will be permitted to sit each paper
separately on any number of occasions and will be
deemed to have passed this part when he/she has
obtained the qualifying marks in respect of each
paper.
Note. – (i) Questions on Constitutional Law will be mainly on
the evolution of the Parliamentary System of
Government and the Constitutional Development
of Sri Lanka, with special reference to the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.  Questions on International Law will
include inter – state relations, both bilateral and
multilateral and the rights and duties of States in
relation to them, diplomatic law and the law of
treaties.
(ii) An of ficer who is an Attorney-at-Law or who has
obtained a degree in Law from a recognized

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
463
university will be exempted from the paper on
Elementary Constitutional Law and International
Law provided he has secured a pass in those
subjects at the relevant Examination.
2. Second Efficiency Bar  Examination :
2.1. The Second Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of
two parts and officers may take both parts at one sitting
or separately.
2.2 Part I – Examination in the following subjects :-
(i) Economic and Social Development in     Sri Lanka,
(ii) Administration – This paper is based on the
following :
(a) Office systems and organization  and methods.
(b) Establishment Code – V olume I and V olume II.
2.3 Each of the above papers will be of three hour duration
and candidates are required to obtain a minimum of 40%
marks in all papers for a pass.
2.4 Paper II – Special Papers.
(i) Elementary Constitutional Law and International Law,
(ii) Diplomatic Practice,
(iii) International Affairs.
2.5 Each of the above papers will be of three hour duration
and candidates are required to obtain a minimum of 40%
marks in all papers for a pass.
2.6 An officer will be permitted to sit each paper separately
on any number of occasions and will be deemed to have
passed this part, when he/she has obtained the qualifying
marks in respect of each papers.
INTRODUCTION TO ARABIC
International General Certificate of Secondary Education
(IGCSE) syllabi are designed as two year courses for examination
at Age 16-plus.
All  IGCSE syllabuses follow a general pattern.  The main section
are ;
Aims ;
Assessment Objectives ;
Assessment ;
Curriculum Content.
The IGCSE subjects have been categorized into groups, subjects
within each group having similar Aims and Assessment Objectives.
First Language Arabic falls into Group I, Languages, of the
International Certificate of Education (ICE) subjects together with
other First Languages, foreign languages and English as a Second
Language.
The booklet IGCSE ; An Introduction gives fuller details of ICE
and the general pattern of the syllabuses.
This syllabus is designed for students taking First Language
Arabic as a single subject.  For excluded combinations with other
subjects, see the IGCSE Syllabus Synopses for 1999.
AIMS
The aims of the syllabus are the same for all students.  The aims
are set out below and described the educational purposes of a
course in a First Language for the IGCSE examination.  They are
not listed in order of priority.
The aims are to :
1. enable students to communicate accurately,
appropriately and effectively in speech and writing ;
2. enable students to understand and respond
appropriately to what they hear, read and experience ;
3. encourage students to enjoy and appreciate the variety
of language ;
4. complement the students’ other areas of study by
developing skills of a more general application (e.g.
analysis, synthesis, drawing of inferences);
5. promote the students’ personal development and an
understanding of themselves and others.
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVES
The three assessment objectives in First Language Arabic are ;
A. Reading and Directed Writing ;
B. Continuous Writing ;
C. Usage.
These assessment objectives are not necessarily related to the
way in which the subject is taught.  A description of each assessment
objective follows :-
A – READING AND DIRECTED WRITING
Students should be able to :
1. understand and convey information ;
2. understand, order and present facts, ideas  and opinions;
3. evaluate information and select what is   relevant to specific
purposes ;
4. articulate experience and express what is  felt and what is
imagined ;
5. recognize implicit meaning and attitudes;
6. communicate effectively and appropriately.
B – CONTINUOUS WRITING
Students should be able to :
7.     articulate experience and express what is felt and what is
imagined;

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
464
8.     order and present facts, ideas and opinions ;
9. communicate effectively and appropriately.
C – USAGE
Students should be able to :
10. Exercise control of appropriate grammatical structures ;
11. demonstrate an awareness of the conventions of
paragraphing, sentence structure and punctuation   ;
12. understand and employ a range of apt vocabulary ;
 13.  show a sense of audience and an awareness of register and
style in both formal and informal situations.
SPECIFICATION GRID
The relationship between the assessment objectives and
components of the scheme of assessment.
Assessment Objective Paper 1/2 Paper 3
A. Reading and Directed Writing 1 1
B.  Continuous Writing 1 1
C.  Usage  1 1
ASSESSMENT
Scheme of assessment ;
Candidates who have followed the Core curriculum and take the
relevant papers are eligible for the award of grades C to G only.
Candidates who have followed the Extended curriculum are eligible
for the ward of grades A* to E only.
For the examination to be appropriate to candidates across the
ability range, there will be a different scheme of assessment for
candidates expected to gain grades D to G (Core curriculum
candidates) and for candidates (expected to gain grades A* to C
(Extended curriculum candidates).
The papers in the assessment are as follows :
Core Curriculum Extended Curriculum
Grades available : C to G Grades available:A* to E
Paper 1 (2 hours) reading Paper 2 (2 1/4 hours) Reading
Directed Writing and Directed Writing
Paper 3 (1 ¼ hours) Paper 3 (1 1/4 hours)
Continuous Writing Continuous Writing
Weighting of papers :-
Paper Core curriculum Extended
Curriculum
1 60% 60%
2
3                                       40%
Description of papers :-
The question papers will be set entirely in the target language.
Paper I
Part I – Will consist of a prose extract followed by six multiple
choice question which will test the candidates; understanding of the
main points of the structure and the argument, and four open-ended
questions which will test other aspects of the extract, such as the
use of language and the author’s attitude towards the subject matter.
Paper 2  -  A second, literary passage will be printed and
candidates will be asked to respond to it in a variety of ways, for
example a selective summary, a letter, a report, a speech.  One task
will be set.
Part 3 – Will be a test of usage.  Tasks will test candidates’
control of grammatical structures and awareness of register and
style.
Paper 2
Part 1  -  There will be two comparable passages, the first being
the same as the used for paper 1.
Part 1 -  The second may be of a literary nature.  One question
will be set.  It will test candidates’ ability to select, compare and
summarize specific information from both passages.
Part 2  -  This part will test candidates’ ability to use and
develop given information in another form, such as a letter or report.
Part 3  -  Will be test if usage.  Tasks will test candidates’ control
of grammatical structures and awareness of register and style.
Paper 3
This paper will test candidates’ skill in continuous writing.  A
selection of nine titles will be provided calling for an imaginative,
narrative or argumentative response in an appropriate style.
Candidates will be required to choose one assignment and will be
advised to write 600-800 characters.
CURRICULUM CONTENT
Students can follow either the Core curriculum only or they
may follow the Extended curriculum which includes both the Core
and Supplement.  Students aiming for grades A* to C will follow
the Extended curriculum :-

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
465
Assessment Core Supplement
Objective
All students should In addition to what
be able to : is required in the
core, students taking
extended level
papers should be
able to :
A Reading and Demonstrate Show a precise
Directed understanding of under standing of
Writing words within short more extended
texts texts
Scan for an extract
specific information,
organize material
and present it in
a given forma
Show some sense
of audience and
awareness of
style
Identify main and Recognize the
subordinate topics, relationship of
summarize, ideas, arangement of
paraphrase, concepts
re-express
Draw inferences,
evaluate,
effectiveness,
compare, analyse,
synthes
Assessment Core Supplement
Objective
Recognize and Recognize and
respond to simple respond to more
liguistic devices sophisticated
including figurative linguistic devices
language
edit or elaborate the
work of others
B Continuous Express thoughts, Show a wider and
Writing feelings and opinions more varied sense
in order to interest, of audience and
inform or convince context and an
awareness of
different styles
demonstrate paragraph,
adequate control of demonstrate a
vocabulary, syntax, sophisticated use
grammar and of vocabulary
punctuation and structures
exercise care over demonstrate
punctuation accuracy in
punctuation
C. Usage write in accurate write accurate
simple sentences complex sentences
attempt a variety of Employ a varied
sentence structures sentence structures
recognize the need write in well
for paragraphing constructed
use and appropriate paragraphs use and
vocabulary show imaginative and
some sense of varied vocabulary
audience and show a clear sense
awareness of style of aud ience and
awareness of style
GRADE DESCRIPTIONS
A Grade A candidate has demonstrated expertise in ;
understanding and communicating information at both a straight
forward and a complex level :
understanding facts, ideas and opinions and ordering and
presenting them with clarity and accuracy ;
evaluating material from texts and selecting and presenting in
detail what is relevant for specific purposes ;
describing and reflecting upon experience and detailing and
analyzing effectively what is felt and what is imagined ;
recognizing implicit meanings and attitudes of a writer ;
showing a clear sense of audience and an understating of
appropriate uses of language ;
writing in well constructed paragraphs, using a full range of
appropriate sentence structure and showing accuracy in spelling
and punctuation.
A Grade C candidate has demonstrated competence in :
understating and conveying information both at a straight forward
level and at a more complex level;
understanding basic facts, ideas and opinions and presenting
them with a degree of clarity and accuracy;
Assessment Core Supplement
Objective

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
466
evaluating material from texts and selecting what is relevant for
specific purpose ;
describing and reflecting upon experience and expressing
effectively what is felt and what is imagined ;
recognizing the more obvious implicit meanings and attitudes of
a writer ;
showing a sense of audience and an awareness of appropriate
uses of language ;
writing in paragraphs, using sentences of varied kinds and
exercising care over spelling and punctuation.
A Grade F candidate has demonstrated competence in:
Understanding and conveying information at a straight forward
level ;
understanding basic facts ,ideas and opinions and presenting
them with a degree of coherence ;
selecting material from texts and commenting upon it at a literal
level ;
describing experience in concrete terms and expressing intelligibly
what is felt and what is imagined ;
recognizing clear meanings and explicit attitudes of a writer ;
showing awareness that language is used in different ways in
different circumstances ;
writing at least in simple sentences – weaknesses in spelling and
punctuation and the construction of complex sentences will be
apparent, but will not seriously impair communication.
FRENCH 7193
The Examination
The examination will consist of three written papers.  The
allocation of mark is as follows Paper 1-10 marks, Paper 2-30
marks, ; Paper 3-45 marks.
Paper 1 (1/2 hour)
Dictation, A passage of modern French of about 140 words will
be read aloud, first straight through, then in repeated groups, and
finally straight through again.  The candidates will write down the
passage in French during the reading of the rated groups.  After the
final reading five minutes will be allowed for revision.
The intention of this paper is to test the candidates’ grasp of the
orthography and grammatical structure of French by requiring them
to relate the language as written to the language as spoken.
Paper 2 (1 hour)
(a) Listening comprehension (1/2 hour) (15 marks).  There
will be 15 questions in English on a passage of modern
French about 300 words long.  The passage will be read
aloud three times.  Once right through a second time in
three sections, and finally right through again.  The
candidates will write their answers in English.
The intention of this part of paper is to test the candidates’
understanding of spoken French.  They will be expected
to understand the passage as a whole as well as significant
details.
(b) Reading comprehension (1/2 hour) (15 marks).  There will
be 15 questions in English on a printed passage of French
about 350 words long.  The candidates will write their
answers in  English.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the candidates’
understanding or written French.  They will be expected to
understand the passage as a whole as well as significant details, and
to show some appreciation of idiom and usage.
Paper 3 ( 1  ½ hours)
(a) Translation from French (10 marks).  A Passage of modern
French of about 140 words will be set for the candidates to
translate into English.  The passage will consist of narrative,
description or conversation, or any combination of these.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of a passage of written French
and their ability to render the text accurately into acceptable
English.
(b) Either Structured composition (20 marks).  An outline
situation or a description of an incident or a dialogue or
some other form of written stimulus material in French will
be given.  The candidates will be required to write about 140
words in French, directly related to this material.  They
may be required, for example, to fill out the details of an
outline or recount an incident from a point of view other
than that given, or compose a dialogue; or
Translation into French (20 marks).  A passage of English of
about 140 words will be set for the candidates to translate
into French.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ ability to write accurance French within defined
limits.
(c) Free composition (15 marks).  Two subjects, one of which
will be a series of pictures, will be set.  The candidates will
be required to choose one of these on which to write about
120 words in French.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ capacity to express ideas freely in accurate

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
467
French on a given subjects, using a variety of vocabulary
and idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines
The following notes are designed to give teachers an idea of the
scope of the Ordinary Level French question papers.  The notes are
not intended to be comprehensive but they provide guidance on the
linguistic content of the examination.
Knowledge of and ability to use, the structures listed below
may be tested in any language areas within the normal range of the
imaginative or real experience of the average school pupil of 15 or
16.  It would clearly be impossible to produce a comprehensive list
of such areas but they would include the family, school, life in town
and country, transport and travel, shopping, eating and drinking,
holidays, sport, usual professions and occupations.
The language of Ordinary Level, as compared with Advanced
Level, is more straight forward and does not involve very complex
description or complicated intellectual processes.  The registers are
narrative with simple description, or conversation; a very colloquial
flavour, as well as a very literary of technical flavour, is avoided.  It
should, however, be noted that where no production of French is
required (e.g. in Paper 2) the language may will be more complex
and may contain some lexical items not necessarily actively known
by pupils for whom the examination is intended.
1. Formation and use of all regular and common irregular verbs,
including reflexives, in all simple and compound tenses of
the indicative (excluding the subjective for active use) ;
interrogative, negative and imperative forms; passive and
avoidance of the passive; participles, infinitive, common
impersonal verbs ; agreement of participles; government of
verbs ; inversion.
2. Pronouns  – Conjunctive, disjunctive, demonstrative,
common indefinite, interrogative, possessive, relative and
use of memo in lui-meme etc., en ; position on pronouns ;
use of tu and on.
3. Articles  -  Use of the definite, indefinite and partitive.
4. Nouns  -  Gender and number, single and compound, common
forms of feminines of occupations and animals.
5. Adjectives – Qualifying, numeral, demonstrative, indefinite,
interrogative, negative, possessive, compound, masculine /
feminine and plural forms (of regular and common irregular
adjectives), comparative and superlative, agreement and
position ; adverbial use ( e.g. tout and parler fort).
6. Adverbs – Form and position, comparative and superlative ;
adverb phrases (e.g. avec plaisir) ; negative expressions.
7. Conjunctions in common use,
8. Prepositions – In common use, including those with verbs
and adjectives and in adjectival phrases (e.g. une montre en
or) ; prepositional phrases ( e.g. Au bout de, en train de)
common idiomatic uses like couvert de and prendre dans ;
use of depuis.
9. Time by the clock, dates, numbers and distance measurement.
10. Weather expressions.
11. Expressions of quantity.
12. Common idioms ( e.g. expressions with avoir, il y a = ago,
venir de) :  exclamatory phrases (e.g. commune il fait beau !).
7623 JAPANESE
Syllabus
There will be one three hour paper, containing ;
(a) Translation into English from romanised Japanese.
(b) Translation   into Japanese (romanised or Japanese script)
(c) Rewriting in Japanese Kana* script of passages or words
in romanised Japanese.
(d) Translation into romanised Japanese of sentences chosen
to test grammatical knowledge.
(e) Free composition in Japanese (romanised or Japanese
script) on one of three subjects.
The romanisation used in setting this paper will be the modified
Hepburn system as used in Kenkyushas New Japanese – English
Dictionary (4th Edition 1974) but candidates may use this or the
Kunreisikiromanisation.  Long vowels may be indicated by doubling
(e.g. roomaji, roomazi) or by overlining  (e.g. romaji, romazi).
* Candidates will be expected to be able to write and to use
correctly the two syllabaries (hirugana and kutakana).  A
recommended book for this is P.G .O” Neill.  Japanese Kana
Workbook (Kodansha International, Tokyo, 1967).
CHINESE 7609
This subject may be taken at the May/June examination only.
The examination will consist
(a) Translation into English ;
(b) Translation into Chinese ;
(c) Translation into Chinese of sentences chosen to test
grammatical knowledge ;
(
d) Free composition on one of three subjects.
GERMAN 7233
In writing German, candidates will not be required to use B, but
candidates who use B, will be expected to use it correctly.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
468
The examination
The examination will consist of two written papers.  The
allocation of marks is as follows : Paper 1-15 marks ; Paper 2-70
marks.
Paper 1 (1 hour)
(a) Dictation (1/2 hour) (5 marks).–  A passage of modern
German of about 100 words will be read aloud, first straight
through, then in repeated groups, and finally straight through
again.  The candidates will write down the passage in German
during the reading of the repeated groups.  After the final
reading, five minutes will be allowed for revision.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ grasp of the orthography and grammatical
structure of German by requiring them to relate the language
as written to the language as spoken.
(b) Listening Comprehension  (1/2 hour) (10 marks).–  The
candidates will hear a narrative or descriptive German
passage which may contain dialogue, of about 200-250
words.  They will then write answers in English to questions
printed in English in the paper.  The questions will be
concerned with information essential to the understanding
of the passage as a whole, but the candidates will also be
expected to show that they have grasped necessary points
of detail.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates understanding of spoken German.
Paper 2 (2 ¼ hours)
(a) Translation from German (21 marks).– The candidates will
be required to translate a piece of German prose of about
150-200 words into English.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of written German and their
ability to render the text accurately into acceptable English.
(b) Directed Production (17 marks).– A passage of German of
about 200-250 words will be printed in the paper, followed
by questions in German.  The candidates will be asked to
read the passage carefully, and then write answers in German
to the question on it.  They will be expected to write about
100 words of German.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates ability to write accurately and relevantly in
German.
(c) Essays.– The candidates will be required to write two essays
in German.  For the first essay, of about 120 words, the
candidates will be required to write on the precise content
of a series of pictures, using past tenses (20 marks), for the
second essay, of about 100 words, there will be a choice of
two general topics which may be narrative, description,
dialogue or a letter (12 marks).
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ capacity to express ideas in accurate German on
a given subject using a variety of vocabulary and idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines :
The following syllabus guidelines list those structures, rules
and expressions which Ordinary Level candidates should be able to
use actively.  All the items featured may not necessarily appear in
any one examination.  The list is not all-inclusive, but is a basic
outline, and any one examination may include other items within
the scope of Ordinary Level candidates.
As the candidates’ comprehension will exceed their productive
skills and they can be expected to understand hitherto unfamiliar
grammatical and lexical items within a context, structures not listed
here, but considered appropriate by the examiners, may also be
included.
The examination does not require knowledge of specialist or
technical vocabulary or dialect, but of modern everyday language
used for narrative, description or conversation.  The areas in which
the language will be tested lie within the normal range of experience
of the average 15 to 16 year old pupil and will include the family,
home, school, town, country and seaside, transport and travel,
theatre and cinema, shopping, sport, usual professions and
occupation, hobbies and pastime, common domestic and wild
animals, common plants and flowers, simple geographical facts,
nationalities and languages, common illnesses and accidents and
reference to doctor, dentist and hospital.
1. Verbs :  Strong ;  weak;  mixed;  modal  ‘compound;  reflexive;
impersonal, singular and plural;  all persons.  Indicative active-
present, future, imperfect, perfect, pluperfect.  Indicative
passive-present, imperfect.  subjunctive active-imperfect of
following verbs only;  sein, haben, werden, konnen, sollen,
mogen.  Interrogative and imperative forms.  Infinitive-with
and without zu;  with um..zu Verbs governing accusative.
Verbs governing dative.’  Verbs governing accusative and
dative.
2. Articles  :  Definite and indefinite ;  singular and plural
(definite):  all cases;  all genders.
3. Nouns  :  Singular and plural;  all cases;  all genders.
4. Pronouns :  Personal – singular and plural ; nominative,
accusative, dative.  Indefinite-man (nominative);  jemand
(uninflected);  niemand (uninflected);  etwas;  nichts.
Interrogative-wer ?  was ?  (nominative)  Demonstrative-
das.
Relative – all gendees ;  singular and plural ;  (nominative,
accusative). Reflexive-singular and plural;  all persons;
(accusative, dative).

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
469
5. Adjectives:  Demonstrative – singular and plural;  all cases;
all genders.  Possessive-singular and plural;  all cases;  all
genders;  Qualifying-perdicative, uninflected.  Attributive-
strong/weak inflections and invariable;  singular and plural;
all cases;  all genders.  Interrogative-was fur ?  Comparative
and superlative.
6. Indefinite adjective – pronouns
Exhaustives – kein – all – jed – beid -
Quantitives – wenig (e) ; einig -; viel (e);
Ander -;  genug-;  melir, mehrerein biB chen;
Ein paar.
7. Adverbs :  Time; manner; place; interrogative; negative;
comparative and superlative;  adverbialphreases.
8. Common Pronominal Adverbs  : eg. Darin, damit.
8. Adverbial Conjunctions  : eg. Also nun; doch.
10. Co-ordinating Conjunctions :
e.g.  und aber; denn; oder; sondern.
11. Correlative Conjunctions :
e.g. weder ………noch; entweder………oder.
12. Common Subordinating Conjunctions  :
eg. als; beror; da; daB; nachdem; ob; obgleich; obwohl;
wahrend; weil, wenn.
13. Common Prepositions  :
+ accusative; + dative; + accusative and dative; + genitive
14. Intensifiers : Irgend; gar.
15. Rules of Contraction.
16. Numbers: Cardinal; ordinal; adverbs : eg. erstens; complex
numerals e.g;. einmal.
17. Time by clock and dates.
18. Expressions of time.
19. Expressions of measurement.
20. Expressions of quantity.
21. Reported statement and indirect questions
22. Orthography
23. Word order
24. Common idioms and exclamations
HINDI 7620
The examination will consist of one 3 hour paper, containing :
(a) Translation into English ;
(b) Translation into Hindi;
(c) Translation into Hindi of sentences chosen to test
grammatical knowledge ;
(d) Free composition on one of three subjects.
SPANISH 7593
In writing Spanish, candidates will be expected to follow the
rules for accentuation published by the Royal Spanish Academy of
Language in 1952, revised in 1958 and declared de  application
perceptive from 01st January, 1959.
The Examination
The examination will consist of two written papers.  The
allocation of marks is as follows: Paper 1-15 marks, Paper 2-70
marks.
Paper 1 (hour) :
(a) Dictation (1/2 hour) (5 marks). – A passage of modern
Spanish of about 100 words will be read aloud, first straight
through, then in repeated groups, and finally straight
through again.  The candidates will write down the passage
in Spanish during the reading of the repeated groups.  After
the final reading, five minutes will be allowed for revision.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ grasp of the orthography and grammatical
structure of Spanish by requiring them to relate the
language as written to the language as spoken.
(b) Listening Comprehension (1/2 hour) (10 marks). – The
candidates will hear a narrative or descriptive Spanish
passage, which may contain dialogue, of about 200-250
words.  They will then write answers in English to
questions printed in English in the paper.  The questions
will be concerned with information essential to the
understanding of the passage as a whole, but the candidates
will also be expected to show that they have grasped
necessary points of detail.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of spoken Spanish.
Paper 2 (2 hours) :
(a) Translation from Spanish (20 marks). – The candidates
will be required to translate a piece of Spanish prose of
about 150-200 words into English.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of written Spanish and their
ability to render the text accurately into acceptable English.
(b) Directed Production (20 marks) – A passage of  Spanish
of about 200-250 words will be printed in the paper,
followed by questions in Spanish.  The candidates will be
asked to read the passage carefully, and then write answers
in Spanish to the questions on it.  They will be expected
to write about 100 words of Spanish.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.03.2010
470
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ ability to write accurately and relevantly in
Spanish.
(c) Essay (30 marks). –  The candidates will be required to
write one essay of about 150 words in  Spanish.  The
candidates will have a choice of three subjects:  there will
be a series of pictures, a dialogue or a letter, and another
subject.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ capacity to express ideas freely in accurate
Spanish on a given subject using a variety of vocabulary
and idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines
The following notes are designed to give teachers an idea of the
scope of the Ordinary Level Spanish question papers.  The notes
intended to be comprehensive but they provide guidance on the
linguistic content of the examination.
Knowledge of an ability to use the structures listed below may
be tested in any language area within the normal range of the
imaginative or real experience of the average school pupil of 15 or
16.  It would clearly be impossible to produce a comprehensive list
of such areas but they would include the family, school, life in town
and country, transport and travel, shopping, eating and drinking,
holidays, sport, usual professions and occupations.
The language of Ordinary Level, as compared with Advanced
Level, is more straight forward and does not involve very complex
description or complicated intellectual process.  The registers are
narrative with simple description, or conversation;  a very colloquial
flavour, as well as a very literary or technical flavour, is avoided.  It
should however, be noted that where no production of Spanish is
required the language may well be more complex and may contain
some lexical items not necessarily actively known by pupils for
whom the examination is intended.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the candidates’
capacity to express ideas freely in accurate Spanish on a given
subject using a variety of vocabulary and idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines
The following notes are designed to give teachers an idea of the
scope of the Ordinary Level Spanish question papers.  The notes
intended to be comprehensive but they provide guidance on the
linguistic content of the examination.
Knowledge of an ability to use the structures listed below may
be tested in any language area within the normal range of the
imaginative or real experience of the average school pupil of 15 or
16.  It would clearly be impossible to produce a comprehensive list
of such areas but they would include the family, school, life in town
and country, transport and travel, shopping, eating and drinking,
holidays, sport, usual professions and occupations.
The language of Ordinary Level, as compared with Advanced
Level, is more straight forward and does not involve very complex
description or complicated intellectual processes.  The registers are
narrative with simple description, or conversation; a very colloquial
flavour, as well as a very literary or technical flavour, is avoided.  It
should however, be noted that where no production of Spanish is
required the language may well be more complex and may contain
some lexical items not necessarily actively known by pupils for
whom the examination is intended.
1. Formation and use of all regular and common irregular verbs,
including radical and orthographical changing verbs and
reflexives, in all tenses of the indicative and subjective (the
subjunctive will be required for active use only in common
situations such as : in its imperative use ;  after verbs of
feeling;  in straight forward conditional clauses, in future
temporary clauses; after common conjunctions like para
que, sin que, como si, etc.); interrogative, negative and
imperative forms; passive and avoidance of the passive;
participles, infinitive, gerund; common impersonal verbs.
Use of ser and ester.
2. Pronouns: Conjunctive, disjunctive, demonstrative, common
indefinite, interrogative, possessive, relative; position of
pronouns; use of se.
3. Articles (definite and indefinite including neuterlo).
4. Nouns : gender and number.
5. Adjectives : Qualifying, numeral (cardinals and lower
ordinals), demonstrative, indefinite, interrogative, possessive,
compound, masculine / feminine and plural forms (of regular
and common irregular adjectives), comparative and
superlative; agreement and position; adverbial use;
apocopation.
6. Adverbs:  Form and position, comparative and superlative;
adverb phrases; negative expressions.
7. Conjunctions in common use.
8. Prepositions in common use, with special reference to
differences between Spanish and English usage; por and
para; personal a.
9. Expressions of time, date, age, distance, quantity and
weather.
10. Common idioms ( e.g. (desssde) hace ; hay que etc.).
03–750
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.