

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2299$46 - 2022 iema;eïn¾ ui 28 jeks nodod - 2022'09'28
No. 2299/46 -  wedNesday,  sePTeMBeR   28,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 37667 - 08 (09/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
[ReFeReNCe].
ThE  COLOmbO  PORT  CITY  ECONOmIC  COmmISSION  ACT,  No.  11  Of  2021
ReGULaTIONs made by the Minister of Finance, economic stabilization and National Policies in consultation with the 
Colombo Port City economic Commission under section 71 read with section 27(1) and (5), section 28(2) and (3), section 
64(2) and section 70 of the Colombo Port City economic Commission act, No. 11 of 2021.
 
 Ranil WickRemesinghe,
 Minister of Finance, economic stabilization
 and National Policies.
Ministry of Finance, economic stabilization
 and National Policies, 
Colombo 01,
september 15, 2022.
Regulations
 1. These Regulations shall be cited as Regulations for Registration, Licensing, authorisation and other approvals of 
authorised Persons No. 01 of 2022.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
2a
PaRT  I
PROCEDURE   FOR  OBTAINING   A   LICENCE   IN   TERMS   OF  SECTION  26 
 2. an application for a licence to qualify as an authorised Person permitted to carry on business in and from the area 
of authority of the Colombo Port City in terms of section 26 of the act shall be in such form as set out in schedule 
I hereto and be accompanied by the documents identified in the said application.
 3. an application for a licence to qualify as an authorised Person and to be permitted to carry on business in and from 
the area of authority of the Colombo Port City may be made by the person proposing to engage in business in and 
from the area of authority of the Colombo Port City. 
 4. The fee payable for processing an application shall be as set out in Fees Regulations. 
 (5)  (a)  On evaluation of the application and supporting documents, the Commission shall issue a Letter of approval In 
Principle, approving the application in principle but subject to conditions to be satisfied prior to the issue or grant of 
a licence including the following conditions: 
 i  a condition requiring the applicant to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements under applicable 
written laws; and 
 ii  in the event the applicant is a company, a condition requiring the applicant to obtain a Certificate of Registration 
under Part VII of the act and in the event the applicant is an offshore banking business, a condition requiring 
the applicant to obtain a licence under Part VIII of the act. 
  (b) In the event of a change to the details provided by the applicant in Part I of the application, any time after the 
submission thereof, the applicant shall inform the Commission of such change and the Commission may permit the 
applicant to resubmit an amended application. On such resubmission, the Commission may reconsider the application 
and where deemed necessary, amend the conditions set out in the Letter of approval In Principle. 
  (c) The Letter of approval in Principle issued under regulation 5(a) above (including any amendments made under 
regulation 5 (b) shall be valid for the period stated in such letter and such period of validity may only be extended by 
the Commission in writing, in exceptional circumstances. 
  (d) The issue of the Letter of approval In Principle under regulation 5(a) does not entitle the applicant to commence 
or carry on business in the area of authority of the Colombo Port City.
  (e) The issue of the Letter of approval In Principle under regulation 5(a) shall not bind the Commission to issue a 
licence to the applicant to qualify as an authorised Person permitting the applicant to engage in business in and from 
the area of authority of the Colombo Port City. The Commission may, withdraw such letter or refrain from issuing 
a licence to qualify the applicant as an authorised Person in the event that:
 i. the conditions set out in the Letter of Approval In Principle remain unfulfilled as determined by the Commission; 
or
 ii. the applicant has not complied with the requirements under the act for the issue of a licence; or 
 iii. any information contained in the application for a licence or any information submitted in connection therewith 
by the applicant is found to be false or incorrect; 
  Provided however, the Commission shall, before withdrawing the Letter of approval In Principle issued to an 
applicant or before taking a decision to refrain from issuing a licence, give sufficient notice in writing to the applicant 
stating the grounds being considered for such withdrawal or decision to refrain from issuing a licence and afford such 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
3a
applicant an opportunity of being heard and to submit any further documentation or information for consideration by 
the Commission.
  (f) The Commission shall cause a copy of the Letter of approval In Principle issued under regulation 5(a) (including 
amendments made under regulation 5(b), a copy of any communication extending the period of validity of such 
Letter of approval In Principle under regulation 5(c) and a copy of the notice of withdrawal of the Letter of approval 
In Principle under regulation 5(e) to be sent to the Registrar General of Companies and any other relevant Regulatory 
authority from whom approval is required in terms of applicable law.
 6. In the event the applicant requires a regulatory registration, licence, authorisation and/or other approval from a 
Regulatory authority in terms of the applicable written laws,to engage in any business in, to invest in, to reside 
in or to be employed in the area of authority of the Colombo Port City, the applicant shall submit the relevant 
application(s) for such registration, licence, authorisation and/or other approval, as prescribed in the applicable 
written law, together with the required supporting documents and applicable fees and charges, to the Commission as 
the single window Investment Facilitator. The Commission shall forward the application(s), together with the Letter 
of approval In Principle in terms of regulation 5(f) to the relevant Regulatory authority for its concurrence/decision. 
 7. The Commission shall maintain copies of the regulatory registrations, licences, authorisations and other necessary 
approvals received from the relevant Regulatory authority for and on behalf of the applicant or received from the 
applicant, as the case may be. 
 8. (a) Where the Commission is satisfied that all legal and regulatory requirements of all applicable written laws and 
regulations have been duly complied with and all the conditions set out in the Letter of approval In Principle have 
been fulfilled during the period stipulated in the Letter of Approval In Principle, the Commission shall issue a licence 
to the applicant qualifying the applicant as an authorised Person and permitting the applicant to engage in business 
in and from the area of authority of the Colombo Port City, subject to such terms and conditions as may be imposed 
by the Commission. 
  (b) The licence issued under regulation 8(a) shall be valid for a period of twelve(12) months from the date of issue 
thereof. 
  (c) The licence issued under regulation 8(a) above shall specify-:
 i. the licence number assigned by the Commission;
 ii. the name of the licensee;
 iii. the legal form of the licensee;
 iv. the address of the licensee in the country of residency, citizenship, incorporation, registration or formation and 
the address within the area of authority of the Colombo Port City or address in terms of section 64 of the act;
 v. the permitted business to be engaged by an authorised Person, in and from the area of authority of the 
Colombo Port City;
 vi. the date of issue of the licence;
 vii. the terms and conditions subject to which such licence is issued; and 
 viii. be in such form as set out in schedule II.  
  (d) Upon issuance of the licence, the Commission shall enter into an agreement with the authorised Person in terms 
of section 32 of the act and enter the details of the authorised Person in the register maintained by the Commission 
in terms of section 28(4) of the Act, provided however, if the business of the Authorised Person is identified as a 
Business of strategic Importance in terms of the act and regulations issued in that regard, the said agreement shall 
be entered into after the publication of the Order in the Gazette in terms of section 53(3) of the act. 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
4a
PaRT II
GENERAL  CONDITIONS
Register
 9. The register containing details of all authorised Persons may be accessible to the public to the extent determined by 
the Commission. 
 10. The Commission shall, upon application and payment of the prescribed fee set out in the Fees Regulations, produce 
an extract of the information maintained in the register in relation to any particular authorised Person accessible to 
the public. such extract of information produced shall be prima facie evidence of the matters stated therein. 
 11. The Commission shall, upon application and payment of the prescribed fee set out in the Fees Regulations, produce 
a certified copy of a licence, certificate of registration, authorisation or other approval of an Authorised Person 
issued by the Commission. Such certified copy of a licence, certificate of registration, authorisation or other approval 
produced shall be conclusive evidence of the licensing, registration, authorisation or approval of the authorised 
Person.
Office of the Authorised Person within the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City
 12. Subject to the regulations in Part III hereto, the office of an Authorised Person shall be a location in the Area of 
Authority of the Colombo Port City and such office shall be the address to which all communications and notices to 
the Authorised Person are addressed. Any change to the address of the office, shall be notified to the Commission in 
accordance with Regulation 15.
Particulars in communication
 13. The name of the Authorised Person, the address of its office, the number of the licence(s), Certificate of Registration 
(if any) and the name of the authorised signatory of such authorised Person shall appear in legible characters in all 
its official communication. 
 14. an authorised Person shall not include any misleading or deceptive information in its communications. 
Change or alteration of particulars in the application pursuant to being an authorised Person.
 15. (a) The authorised Person shall, in the event of any change or alteration to any of the particulars set out in application 
tendered, notify the Commission in writing of such change or alteration by submission of the form set out in schedule 
III within thirty (30) days of the change or alteration together with the necessary documents to evidence such change 
or alteration. 
  (b) Upon receipt of the notification in terms of regulation 15(a) above, the Commission shall, on payment of the 
prescribed fee set out in the Fees Regulations, make the necessary changes in the register and where necessary, re-
issue the licence granted under regulation 8 above with the new details of the authorised Person. The Commission 
may, if deemed necessary upon evaluation of the impact of the change or alteration on consideration of the national 
interest or for the advancement of the national economy, amend, by mutual agreement, any terms and conditions of 
the agreement between the Commission and the authorised Person. 
  (c) The Commission shall forward the notification of change or alteration to the particulars set out in an application, 
where it deems necessary, to a relevant Regulatory authority. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
5a
Financial statements and accounting Records
 16. (a) Every Authorised Person shall maintain and prepare the financial statements to separately identify such part of 
the profits and income attributable to the business carried out in and from the Area of Authority of the Colombo 
Port City for each twelve (12) month period ending on 31st March or such other twelve (12) month period as may 
be agreed to with the Commission and such other Regulatory Authority, where applicable. The financial statements 
shall be prepared by an authorised Person, audited by an auditor, approved and signed by the authorised signatory 
and submitted to the Commission within six (6) months from 31st March or the end of such other twelve (12) month 
period, as the case may be. 
 (b) every authorised Person shall keep and maintain accounting records which: 
 i. correctly record and explain the authorised Person’s transactions in and from the area of authority of the 
Colombo Port City;
 ii. shall, at any time enable the financial position of the Authorised Person to be determined with reasonable 
accuracy;
 iii. shall enable its officers or managers to prepare financial statements which could be readily and properly 
audited.
 (c) The accounting records shall be: 
 i. kept at the Authorised Person’s office in the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City; 
 ii. preserved by the authorised Person for at least ten (10) years from the date upon which they were created; and
 iii. open to inspection by an auditor and by the Commission at all reasonable times. 
annual Return
 17. every authorised Person shall at the end of every twelve (12) month period ending on 31st March or such other 
twelve (12) month period as may be agreed to with the Commission, within thirty (30) days from the approval of 
the financial statements in terms of regulation 16 above, deliver to the Commission an annual return in the form and 
containing the matters specified in Schedule IV hereto.  
PaRT  III
INTeRIM   PROVIsIONs   UNdeR   seCTION   64
 18. The Commission shall, when permitting an authorised Person to engage in business at an approved designated 
location in sri Lanka outside the area of authority of the Colombo Port City, take into consideration the investment 
proposed to be made in leasing Government Marketable Land or Project Company Marketable Land in the area of 
authority of the Colombo Port City or one or more condominium parcels standing thereon or acquiring one or more 
condominium parcels within the area of authority of the Colombo Port City and the time period stipulated therefor.
 19. The permission granted by the Commission under this Part III shall be in writing and may include conditions on 
matters such as provision of financial information and reporting subject to which an Authorised Person is permitted 
to engage in business in and from the designated approved location outside the area of authority of the Colombo 
Port City.
 20. For the permitted time period, the address of the approved designated location in sri Lanka outside the area of 
authority of the Colombo Port City shall be the address to which all communications and notices to the authorised 
Person are addressed for the purposes of regulation 12. 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
6a
PaRT   IV
ReNewaLs   OF   LICeNCes,   ReGIsTRaTIONs,   aUTHORIsaTIONs   aNd   OTHeR   aPPROVaLs
 21. (a) subject to regulation 21(c) below, every authorised Person who seeks to have the licence qualifying the applicant 
as an authorised Person and permitting the applicant to engage in business in and from the area of authority 
of the Colombo Port City, renewed shall make an application in writing in the form set out in schedule V to the 
Commission to renew the licence thirty (30) days prior to its expiry.
  (b) The applicant shall also submit the relevant application(s) for any other registration, licence, authorisation and/or 
approval required by applicable law, in the form prescribed by the relevant law, together with the required supporting 
documents and applicable fees and charges, to the Commission as the single window Investment Facilitator. 
  (c) a late application to renew the licence qualifying the licensee as an authorised Person may be made: 
 i. within thirty (30) days of the date of its expiry and if granted, the licence shall be deemed to have continued 
and no penalties shall be applied; or
 ii. after thirty (30) days of the date of its expiry and if granted, the licence shall be deemed to have continued and 
an automatic penalty shall be applied, as specified in regulation 32.
 22. when making the application for renewal of the licence qualifying the licensee as an authorised Person, the licensee 
shall submit to the Commission a statement confirming that:
 (a) all the information in the annual return remains true and accurate and where changes have been made in terms 
of regulation 15 subsequent to the filing of the annual return, such changes have been duly notified to the 
Commission;
 (b) the authorised Person remained solvent at all times in accordance with the applicable law in its country of 
residency, citizenship, incorporation, registration or formation and is not undergoing any process pursuant to 
the applicable insolvency or bankruptcy or other applicable law; and
 (c) it complies with all laws (regulatory or otherwise) and all licensing conditions applicable to it.
 23. Upon receipt of the application for renewal and the confirmation statement referred to in regulation 22, the 
Commission shall on recommendation made by the director General and on payment of the prescribed fee set out in 
the Fees Regulations and payment of an annual fee as may be required under the Fees Regulations, issue a renewed 
licence qualifying the licensee as an authorised Person. 
 24. In the event that a licensee fails to renew the licence issued qualifying the licensee as an authorised Person within 
forty five (45) days of the date of expiry in the manner set out in this Part IV , such person shall cease to be an 
authorised Person permitted to engage in business in and from the area of authority of the Colombo Port City, from 
the date of expiry of the licence.  
PaRT V
LICeNCe   TRaNsFeR   aNd   assIGNMeNT
The licence issued to qualify as an authorised Person shall be non-transferable and may not be assigned to any other party.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
7a
PaRT  VI
LICeNCe   sURReNdeR,   sUsPeNsION,   ReVOCaTION   aNd   CaNCeLLaTION
 26. Surrender
 (a) The Commission may cancel the licence issued qualifying the licensee as an authorised Person if an application is 
made to surrender the said licence in accordance with the requirements of this regulation 26. 
 (b) The application shall: 
 i. be made by the authorised Person or on the authorised Person 's behalf by its authorised signatory; and
 ii. be in the form set out in schedule VI.
 (c) an authorised Person shall not be entitled to make an application under this regulation 26: 
 i. if at any time in the previous three (3) months, the authorised Person has:
 a.  changed its name; 
 B.  traded or otherwise carried on business; 
 C.  engaged in any other activity, other than those which are necessary or expedient for the purposes 
of making an application under regulation 26 for concluding the affairs of the authorised Person or 
complying with a relevant legal requirement; or 
 ii. at a time when any process in respect of the authorised Person, or its property, has commenced pursuant to the 
applicable insolvency or bankruptcy or other applicable law.
 (d) an application under regulation 26(b) may be withdrawn by notice to the Commission. 
 (e) The Commission may not cancel the licence under this regulation 26 until the expiration of three (3) months from 
the publication of a notice, by the Commission in (i) the Commission website, (ii) the Gazette in sinhala, Tamil 
and english languages and (iii) a sinhala, Tamil and english daily newspaper circulating in sri Lanka, stating that 
the Commission may exercise the power to cancel the licence and strike an authorised Person off the register and 
inviting any person to show cause why that should not be done.
Cancellation
 (27) (a) The occurrence of any one of the following shall be deemed a material default or breach by an authorised           
Person :
 i. failure to commence business within six (6) months of the issue of the licence qualifying the licensee as an 
authorised Person; 
 ii. being adjudged by court of competent jurisdiction that theauthorised Person is insolvent or bankrupt pursuant 
to the institution of any process in respect of the authorised Person, or its property, in terms of the applicable 
insolvency or bankruptcy or other applicable law for any reason including the inability to pay its debts;
 iii. ceasing to carry on business within the permitted place(s) or area;
 iv. cancellation of any material regulatory licences, registrations, authorisations or other approvals granted by 
a Regulatory authority which would impact the ability of the authorised Person to continue its business 
operations or activities or where the licence as an authorised Person is granted by the Commission on the 
basis of a licence, registration, authorisation or other approval granted by a foreign regulatory authority or 
governing body, the cancellation of such licence, registration, authorisation or other approval granted by the 
foreign regulatory authority or governing body;
 v. where the authorised Person ceases to have a legal personality in terms of applicable law;
 vi. where there is a material change in the particulars of an authorised Person which in the opinion of the 
Commission is inconsistent or conflicts with particulars based on which the licence was issued; 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
8a
 vii. contravening the provisions of the act or any regulation, rules, direction, order or other requirement imposed 
under the Act including failure to pay annual fees, renewal fees, penalties or fines as may be applicable;
 viii. breach of the terms and conditions of the licence issued by the Commission;
 ix. breach of the terms and conditions of the agreement executed with the Commission in terms of section 32 of 
the act;
 x. furnishing false, misleading or inaccurate information or documents to the Commission in connection with its 
application for a licence, registration, authorisation or approval; or
 xi. carrying on business in a manner likely in the opinion of the Commission to be detrimental to the interests of 
the area of authority of the Colombo Port City, the national interest and national economy. 
 (b) The Authorised Person shall, immediately on occurrence of any one of the events identified in regulation 27(a)
(i),(ii),(iii),(iv), (v) and (vi), notify the Commission in writing of such occurrence. 
 28. (a) Where an Authorised Person commits a material default or breach or notifies the Commission of a material 
default or breach in terms of regulation 27(b) above, the Commission shall, on the recommendation of the director 
General give notice in writing to the authorised Person of its intention to cancel the licence issued to such authorised 
Person together with the reasons therefor.
 
  (b) The authorised Person may tender objections in writing to the Commission against the notice of intended 
cancellation under regulation 28(a), within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of such notice, giving reasons why 
the licence shall not be so cancelled.
  (c) The Commission may, within thirty (30) days from the last date for tendering objections under regulation 28(b), 
upon consideration of the objections if any, and after hearing the authorised Person in support of its objections, 
in accordance with a procedure to be determined by the Commission,  either withdraw the notice given under 
regulation 28(a) with or without conditions or cancel the licence issued qualifying the licensee as an authorised 
Person, and shall notify the authorised Person in writing accordingly. The notice of cancellation in terms hereof shall 
be forwarded by the Commission to all relevant Regulatory authorities.  
  (d) a cancellation of a licence of an authorised Person under this regulation 28 shall take effect on the date stipulated 
in the notice issued in terms of regulation 28(c).
  (e) where a cancellation of a licence of an authorised Person has taken effect under regulation 28(d), the Commission 
shall, as soon as possible publish (i) in the Commission website, (ii) in the Gazette in sinhala, Tamil and english 
languages, and (iii) in a sinhala, Tamil and english daily newspaper circulating in sri Lanka.
 29. where notice for the cancellation of a licence has been issued by the Commission under regulation 28(c), the 
Commission may give directions to the authorised Person — 
 (a) prohibiting it from dealing with or disposing of its assets in any manner specified in such direction; 
 (b) prohibiting it from entering into any transaction or class of transactions so specified; or 
 (c) prohibiting it from soliciting future business.
from the date of issuance of the notice of cancellation. 
strike off from register
 30. (a) where the licence issued qualifying the licensee as an authorised Person is not renewed in terms of Part IV of 
these regulations or where the Commission cancels the licence issued qualifying the licensee as an authorised Person 
under regulations 26 or 28, any and all agreements between the authorised Person and the Commission (including 
any lease agreement) shall stand terminated and the name of the authorised Person shall be struck off the register 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
9a
maintained by the Commission. where the agreements are terminated and the name of an authorised Person is 
struck off the register, such authorised person shall cease to be qualified to carry on business in and from the Area of 
authority of the Colombo Port City. 
  (b) Notwithstanding the fact that the authorised Person is struck off the register, the authorised Person shall 
remain liable for all claims, debts, liabilities and obligations of the authorised Person and the liability of every 
founder, member, partner, director and shareholder of the authorised Person continues and may be enforced as if the 
authorised Person continues to be licensed and regulated by the Commission. 
  (c) Notwithstanding the generality of regulation 30 (b) above, the authorised Person shall continue to be liable for all 
fees, licence fees and penalties payable under the act notwithstanding the fact that the authorised Person has been 
struck off the register; and such fees, licence fees and penalties shall have priority over all other claims against the 
assets of the authorised Person. 
PaRT   VII
sURCHaRGe   aNd   PeNaLTIes
 31. (a) where any authorised Person, fails to renew the licence qualifying the licensee as an authorised Person within the 
specified period, or fails to file any application, account, statement, document or return or notice of any matter within 
the specified period, and has by reason of such default committed an offence under the Act, the Commission may, if 
thought fit, instead of instituting proceedings in court or where such proceedings have already been instituted, instead 
of continuing such proceedings against the authorised Person or any member of the governing or management 
body of the authorised Person in respect of such offence, in terms of section 68 and 69 of the act, impose on the 
authorised Person or any member of the governing or management body of the authorised Person a penalty of 
such amount as the Commission may think proper in composition of the offence. any penalty so accepted by the 
Commission shall be credited to the Fund established under the act.
  (b) where the Commission has accepted any sum of money as a penalty under regulation 31(a) in composition of 
any offence, proceedings shall not be taken against the authorised Person or any or any member of the governing or 
management body of the authorised Person in respect of that offence or if already taken, shall not be continued. 
  (c) where a penalty imposed under the provisions of regulation 31(a) remains unpaid the provisions of section 70 of 
the act shall apply. 
PaRT   VIII
FORMs   aNd   NOTICes
 31. (a) Any application, account, statement, document or return or notice of any matter required to filed under the Act 
and these regulations as may be prescribed by the Commission shall be completed in accordance with any directions, 
instructions, guidance or requirements contained in the form itself or provided by the Commission and shall be 
submitted to the Commission using the electronic lodgement system maintained by the Commission from time 
to time. In the absence of such electronic lodgement system or under special circumstances as determined by the 
Commission, the form may be filed manually as instructed by the Commission. 
  (b) Such application, account, statement, document or return or notice of any matter filed with the Commission shall: 
 (i) be clearly legible and capable of being reproduced in tangible form, including electronic means; 
 (ii)  contain, where applicable,signatures of the person or persons indicated on the form and the date on which the 
form was signed; 
 (iii)  be completed in the sinhala, Tamil or english language; and (iv) be provided in a manner acceptable to the 
Commission. 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
10a
  (c) authorised Persons shall retain a copy of the documents submitted to the Commission for a period of ten (10) 
years. 
  (d) where the act or any other written law requires an application, account, statement, document or return or notice 
to be filed with the Commission, such application, account, statement, document or return or notice shall be filed, in 
the absence of a time limit being stated in the act or other written law or elsewhere in these regulations, within thirty 
(30) days of the date of the happening of the event to which the notice relates.
PaRT   IX
INTeRPReTaTION
 33. (a) For the purpose of these Regulations:
“act” means the Colombo Port City economic Commission act, No.11 of 2021; and
“Fees Regulations” means Registration and Licensing of authorised Person (Fees) Regulations, No. 01 of 2022 as 
amended from time to time.
(b) A term that is used in these regulations which is not defined above and is defined in the Colombo Port City 
economic Commission act, No.11 of 2021 shall have in these regulations, the same meaning as it has in the 
Colombo Port City economic Commission act, No.11 of 2021.
(c) If a provision in these regulations refers to a communication, notice, agreement of other document ‘in writing’ 
then, unless the contrary intention appears, it means in legible form and capable of being reproduced on paper, 
irrespective of the medium used. expressions related to writing shall be interpreted accordingly.
(d) In the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala and Tamil texts of these Regulations, the sinhala text shall 
prevail.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
11a
SChEDULE I
 aPPLICa TION FOR LICeNCe TO eNGaGe IN BUsINess IN aNd FROM THe aRea OF aUTHORITy 
OF  THe COLOMBO PORT CITy
INSTRUCTIONS:
 
(1) Until an electronic system is available to lodge the application, the completed application form together with the 
documents specified and the documentary evidence relating to the proposed business should be submitted along with 
the application fee to: The director-General of the Colombo Port City economic Commission.
(2) applicants should also submit a soft copy of the completed application form and supporting documents (including proof 
of payment of the application fee) via email to applications@portcity.gov.lk for preliminary review by the officers of 
the Colombo Port City economic Commission.
(3) Once the electronic system is available, the application may be lodged in accordance with the instructions provided in 
the electronic system.
(4) The application fee may be paid in the manner that the Commission may publish from time to time. 
(5) any application which has been submitted but does not comply with the requirements set out in the Colombo Port City 
economic Commission act No. 11 of 2022 or the authorised Persons (Registration, Licensing, authorisation and other 
approvals) Regulations or which are incomplete/completed unsatisfactorily as determined by the Colombo Port City 
economic Commission, at its sole discretion, may be returned.
(6) The form and supporting documents serve as a general and preliminary requirement to obtain the required registrations, 
licences, authorisations and other approvals to engage in business in and from the area of authority of the Colombo 
Port City and the Colombo Port City economic Commission reserves the right to request any further information and 
documents as may be required with regard to the application.
(7) The documents submitted pursuant to the application may be certified true copies. A copy must be certified as a true 
copy by the authority or institution which has issued the original document. where the documents are not in english, 
please provide an English-translated version of the documents, duly certified.
(8) This application belongs to Colombo Port City Economic Commission, no modification or tampering with the format 
or its contents is permitted.
(9) The Colombo Port City economic Commission reserves the right to withdraw any approval in Principle that may 
be granted by the Colombo Port City Economic Commission if it finds any misrepresentation of facts stated in the 
application. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
12a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
PART I : PROFILE OF APPLICANT  
Important: All fields are mandatory and should not be left blank 
a.  Name of Applicant    
b.  Address of Applicant  
(If Applicant is a company, the registered office 
of the company) in the country of residency, 
citizenship, incorporation, registration or 
formation. 
  
c.  Country of citizenship, residency, 
incorporation, registration or formation of 
Applicant  
  
d.  Contact Details of Applicant   Telephone:   
Email:   
e.  Legal Personality of Applicant  
(Please tick  the appropriate box) 
For local applicants : 
• Natural Person  
• General Partnership  
• Company  
For foreign applicant : 
• Natural Person  
• General Partnership  
• Limited Partnership  
• Limited Liability Partnership  
• Company  
• Foundation  
PART II : PROFILE OF THE BUSINESS  
Important: All fields are mandatory and should not be left blank 
a.  Business Sector  • Infrastructure  
• Construction  
• Hotel  
• Bar  
• Restaurant  
• Gaming  
• Education  
• Healthcare  
• Logistics  
• Retail trade and services  
• Wholesale trade and service  
• Utilities  
• Sports and Leisure  
• Entertainment  
• Banking  
• Non-banking financial  business  
• Information Technology  
• Advisory service  
• General business  
• Other (please specify)  
  

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
13a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
b.  Description of the business activities  
 
 
 
c.  Location of proposed office  
 
Note: The proposed office would be the office 
for the purpose of regulation 12  
 
Within the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port 
City’s  
 
Please specify full address:  
 
 
 
 Designated location under section 64 of the Act  
 
Please specify full address:   
d.  Proposed investment, mode of funding and 
source of funds   
Foreign direct investment  (FCY)  
• Currency:  
• Quantum: 
• Mode of funding (debt or equity): 
• Source:  
 
Other investments  (LKR)  
• Currency: 
• Quantum: 
• Mode of funding (debt or equity): 
• Source: 
e.  Shareholders/members/partn ers/ 
founders  
 
(Where the Authorised Person has more than 
ten (10) shareholders/ members/partners/ 
founders, details of ten (10) largest 
shareholders/members/partners/founders in 
terms of ownership in the Authorised Person 
shall be sufficient) 
 
(Each of member/partner/founder is required to 
complete Part II I          and/or Part IV. This requirement 
does not apply where the applicant is a 
company) 
 
Name  Country of  
residency, 
citizenship, 
incorporation, 
registration or 
formation and 
Address  
Incorpora
tion or 
registratio
n  No./  
Passport 
No. 
(Foreign 
Nationals)/ 
NIC No.  
(Locals) 
% of 
ownership  
    
    
f.  Director(s)/ members of the 
governing/management body  
 
(Each member of the governing/management 
body Part V . 
This requirement does not apply where the 
applicant is a company ) 
 
Name   Nationality and 
Address  
Passport 
No.  
(Foreign 
Nationals)/  
NIC No.  
(Locals)) 
Position  to 
be Held 
    
    
g.  Details of authorised signatory and 
contact person  
Authorised Signatory:   
Contact Person:   
h.  Supervisory Authority in the country of 
residency/citizenship/incorporation/ 
registration/formation  
(if applicable) (in the case of offshore banking 
details of the home state financial services 
regulator) 
Name and Address of regulator:  
 
Name and designation of Official with oversight:  
 
Telephone and Email of such Official:  
 
 
i.  Any  other  information              relevant  for   

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
14a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
 
 
 
 
 
consideration of the  application  
j.  Past records/convictions  
 
 
Please confirm the following statements by placing a tick 
 in the box  
1. There is no finding of any  
      regulatory or supervisory 
authority, professional 
association, any Commission 
of Inquiry, tribunal or other 
body established by law in Sri 
Lanka or abroad, to the 
effect that the applicant has 
committed or 
 
2. The applicant is not subject 
to any investigation or 
inquiry in Sri Lanka or 
elsewhere by any regulatory 
authority, or supervisory 
authority, professional 
association, any Commission 
of Inquiry, tribunal or other 
body established by law in Sri 
Lanka or abroad.  
 
3. The applicant has not 
committed or been 
connected with the 
commission of, any act which 
involves fraud, deceit, 
dishonesty or any other 
improper conduct 
 
4. The applicant has not been 
convicted by any Court in Sri 
Lanka or abroad in respect of 
a crime committed in 
connection with financial 
management or of any 
offence involving moral 
turpitude. 
 
5. The applicant is not an 
undischarged insolvent nor 
have I been declared a 
bankrupt in Sri Lanka or 
abroad. 
 
6. The applicant has not failed, 
to satisfy any judgment or 
order of any court whether in 
Sri Lanka or elsewhere, or to 
repay a debt;. 
 
7. The applicant has not been 
declared by a competent 
court in Sri Lanka or abroad, 
to be of unsound mind. 
 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
15a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
PART  III : PROFILE  OF CORPORATE  PARTNERS/MEMBERS/FOUNDERS  
Important: All fields are mandatory and should not be left blank 
a. Name :  
b. Company  Address :  
c. Nature  and Type  of 
Business : 
 
 
d. 
Incorporation/  
Registration  Number : 
 
 
e. 
Date  and Place  of 
Incorporation/  
Registration : 
 
 
f. 
Date,  Type  of Licence and 
Licence Number :  
(if applicable) 
 
 
g. 
Supervisory   Authority in the 
country of incorporation/  
registration  
(if applicable) 
Name and Address of Regulator:  
 
Name and designation of the Head of Regulator:  
 
Telephone and Email of such Official : 
 
h.  
Capital  and Reserves  
 (please specify currency and 
amount for the latest    three(3) 
years) 
 
*Note: Required only if the 
ownership interest in the 
Authorised Person is 5% or 
more  
 
Year  
 
Capital  
Retained  
Profits/  
Accumulated  
Losses  
 
Other  Reserves  
i. Financial  Performance  
(please specify currency  and 
amount for the latest   three 
(3) years and provide us with 
the audited financial 
statements and reports, 
including a balance sheet, 
profit and loss account and  
 
(if there is a requirement by 
applicable law to have an 
auditor audit its accounts and 
reports) the auditor's 
statement, for the last three (3) 
years) 
 
*Note: Required only if the 
ownership interest in the 
Authorised Person is 5% or 
more 
Financial  
Year  
Total   
Assets  
Total   
Liabilities  
Profit/Loss  Before  
Tax  
    
j. Shareholder(s) holding 5% or 
more of the shares of the 
company  
Name  of 
Shareholder(s)  
Country of 
residency, 
citizenship, 
incorporation, 
registration or 
formation  
Percentage of  
Shareholding(s)  

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
16a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
    
 
k. 
 
Board  of Director(s)  
 
Name  of Director(s)  
 
Nationality  
Nature of  
Appointment  
(executive or non- 
executive) 
    

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
17a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
  
PART  IV : PROFILE  OF INDIVIDUAL  PARTNERS/MEMBERS/FOUNDERS  
Important: All fields are mandatory and should not be left blank 
a. Title  
(Mr, Mrs, Ms, Miss, etc.) 
 
b. Name  
(as per NIC/passport) 
 
 
c. Date and Place 
of Birth  
 
d.    Gender  Male  
 
Female  
 
Other
 
      
 
 
e. Nationality   
f. NIC Details  
(for Sri Lankans) 
NIC No.:    
Passport  No.:     
 Expiry  Date:     
 Country  of Issue:     
 Issuing Authority:     
g. Passport  Details  
(for  Non-Sri Lankans)  Length  of proposed residence  in Sri Lanka (if any):  
 Any work permit applied prior to or together with this application: Yes No 
  
 (If YES, please provide certified true copy of the work permit) 
 a) Net  Worth  Statement  Certified  by Qualified  Accountant;  or 
  Currency  and Amount  
 Total  Assets   
 Total  Liabilities  
 
h. Financial  Net  worth  
(latest three months 
bank statement duly 
certified by the Bank or 
net worth statement 
prepared and certified 
by       Qualified Accountant) 
 
*Note: Required only 
if the ownership 
interest in the 
Authorised Person is 
5% or more  
 
b) Bank  Statement/Online  Bank  Statement  Certified  by the  Bank  
Name  of 
Bank  
Type of  
Account  
Statement  
Date  
Currency   and 
Amount  
    
i. Curriculum  Vitae  of Individual  Shareholder/partner/member/founder  
*Note: Required only if the ownership interest in the Authorised Person is more than 5%  
 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
18a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
 
PART  V: PROFILE  OF MEMBER(S) OF  MANAGEMENT BODY  OF AUTHORISED PERSON  
 Important: All fields are mandatory and should not be left blank 
a. Position  to be Held :  
b. Title:  
(Mr/Mrs/Ms/Miss/etc.) 
 
c. Name : 
(as per NIC/passport) 
 
d. Date  and Place  of Birth :  
SECTION  A: Tertiary  / Highest  Education(s)  
 
Type  of Qualification/  Certification  
Name  of School/  College/  
University/  Others  
Year  Qualification  
Obtained  
   
   
   
   
SECTION  B: Professional  Qualification(s)  
Type  of Qualification/Certification  Name  of 
Institution  
Year  Qualification  
Obtained  
   
   
   
SECTION  C: Membership  of Professional  Body(s)  
Type  and Details  of 
Membership  
Name  of 
Institution  
Year  Membership  
Obtained  
   
   
   
SECTION  D:Past  and Current  Work  Experience(s)  
Date : 
(dd/mm/yyyy) 
Name  of 
Employer : 
 
Designation : 
Key  
Responsibilities : 
From  To 
     
     
     
SECTION  E: Directorship  Held  in Other  Company(s)  
Name  of 
Company : 
Place  of 
Incorporation : 
Date of  
Appointment
: (dd/mm/yyyy) 
Nature of  Appointment : 
(executive or non executive) 
    
    
    

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
19a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
e. Gender : Male : 
 
Female : 
 
Other : 
 
 
 
 
 
f. Nationality :  
g. NIC Details : 
(for Sri Lankans) NIC No.:  
h. Passport  Details : 
(for Non-Sri Lankans) 
Passport  No.:   
Expiry  Date:   
Country  of Issue:   
Issuing Authority:   
Length  of residence  in Sri Lanka (if any):   
Any  work  permit  applied  prior  to or together with  
this  application:  
YES NO 
  
  (If YES, P lease provide  certified true  copy of the  work  permit (if any))  
i. Past records/convictions :  
    
*Note: Required only if the ownership 
interest in the Authorised Person is 5% 
or more. 
 
Please confirm the following statements by placing a tick  in the box  
1. There is no finding of any regulatory or supervisory authority, 
professional association, any Commission of Inquiry, tribunal or 
other body established by law in Sri Lanka or abroad, to the 
effect that the relevant person has committed or has been 
connected with the commission of, any act which involves fraud, 
deceit, dishonesty or any other improper conduct.  
 
2. The relevant person not subject to any investigation or inquiry 
in Sri Lanka or elsewhere by any regulatory authority, or 
supervisory authority, professional association, any Commission 
of Inquiry, tribunal or other body established by law in Sri Lanka 
or abroad.  
 
3. The relevant person has not committed or been connected with 
the commission of, any act which involves fraud, deceit, 
dishonesty or any other improper conduct. 
 
4. The relevant person has not been convicted by any Court in  
Sri Lanka or abroad in respect of a crime committed in 
connection with financial management or of any offence 
involving moral turpitude.  
 
5. The relevant person is not an undischarged insolvent nor have  
I been declared a bankrupt in Sri Lanka or abroad.  
 
6. The relevant person has not failed, to satisfy any judgment or 
order of any court whether in Sri Lanka or elsewhere, or to repay 
a debt;.  
 
7. The relevant person has not been declared by a competent court 
in Sri Lanka or abroad, to be of unsound mind.  
 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
20a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
8. The relevant person has not been removed or suspended by an 
order of a regulatory or supervisory authority from serving as a 
director, Chief Executive Officer or other officer in any bank or 
financial institution or corporate body, in Sri Lanka or abroad.  
 
9. The relevant person has not been not been a director, Chief 
Executive Officer or held any other position of authority in any 
entity, company or institution – (i) of which the  material license 
obtained for the purpose of carrying on business has been 
suspended; or (ii) which has been wound up or is being wound up, 
or which is being compulsorily liquidated; whether in Sri Lanka 
or elsewhere.  
 
 
 
 
 
PART VI:  DETAILS OF PROPOSED BUSINESS  
Important: The Applicant to submit a proposal/document/statement including the information requested below 
SECTION  A: Please provide a Business  Plan  which shall include the following information  
a. Objective  of Establishment : 
 
 
b. Type  of Products/Services :  
(for offshore banking please identify the services under section 46 of the Act): 
 
 
c. Target  Market : 
 
 
d. Business  Operational  and Strategic  Plan :  
(a credible and viable business plan including but not limited to the following that sets out the approach to  implement the 
proposed business objectives or operations) 
 
 
 
e. Internal policies and controls    that commensurate with the  business  profile or  risks : 
 
 
 
f. Manpower  Planning :  
SECTION  B: Financials  
 Category  Local  Non- 
Local  Total  Expected  
Remuneration  
a)  Managerial & 
Professional 
    
b)  Technical &  
Supervisory 
    
c)  
Operation Workers 
• Skilled 
• Unskilled 
    
d)  Clerical & General      
Workers 
    
Total  (a)+(b)+(c)+(d)  
    
 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
21a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
 
Certified copies of the audited financial statements and reports, including a balance sheet, profit and loss account and (if the 
applicant is required by applicable law to have an auditor audit its accounts and reports) the auditor's statement, for the last 
three (3) years, where available.  
 
 
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
 
PART VII:  SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS  
SECTION A : General  Pleaseplacing a tick  
 as attached  
• Certificate of Incorporation for the corporate Shareholder/Partner/Member/ Founder 
with an ownership interest of 5% or more in the Authorised Person certified by the issuing 
authority. This document is required only if the body corporate is not a company 
incorporated in Sri Lanka. 
 
• Certified copies of the passport of the individual Shareholder/Partner/Member/ Founder 
with an ownership interest of 5% or more in the Authorised Person 
 
• Certified copy of the passport of each director or member of governing/management 
body 
 
• The document appointing the authorised signatory  
SECTION B: If applicant is a company  Pleaseplacing a tick  
 as attached  
• Duly completed registration form for offshore company under relevant r egulations for 
Offshore Company registration. 
 
 
• A copy of any relevant charter, statute or memorandum and (as relevant) articles of 
association of the company or other instrument constituting or defining the constitution 
of the company, and where such instrument is not in English, a translation of the 
instrument to English, certified by an autho rity regulating companies or the company 
secretary or similar officer of the company. 
 
 
• A copy of the certificate of incorporation in the country of incorporation, certified by the 
issuing authority within thirty (30) days prior to the submission of the application 
 
 
• A statement issued by the company and signed by each director of the company, that 
there are no legal impediments in the country of incorporation of such company, for it to 
be registered to carry on business as an offshore company or to engage in the business 
of an offshore company. 
 
 
 
  

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
22a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
SCHEDULE II  
 
FORM OF LICENCE  
 
LICENCE TO ENGAGE IN BUSINESS IN AND FROM THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE COLOMBO PORT CITY 
BY THE COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION  
 
The Port City Economic Commission (the “Commission”), in the exercise of powers conferred upon it by section 26 
of the Colombo Port City Economic Commission Act, No. 11 of 2021 (“the Act”) hereby issues a licence qualifying 
the below mentioned person(s) (the “licensee”) as an Authorised Person and permitting such person to engage in 
business in and from the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City . 
 
DETAILS  OF THE LICENSEE 
Name of licensee :  
Licence number :  
Address of the licensee : 
 
In the country of country of  
residency, citizenship, incorporation, 
registration or formation:  
In the Area of Authority of  
the Colombo Port City:  
  
Legal form of the licensee :  
Permitted business :  
Terms and conditions 
subject to which such 
licence is issued : 
 
 
 
The Commission may at any time revoke this licence if the licensee fails to comply with the Act, Regulations or Rules 
made under the Act.  
 
This Licence shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of issuance unless previously revoked.  
 
 
 
 
 
The Colombo Port City Economic Commission                                                                     Date:  (DD) / (MM) / (YYYY) 
  

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
23a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
SCHEDULE II I 
 
NOTICE OF CHANGE OR ALTERATION TO THE PARTICULARS SET OUT IN THE APPLICATION TO OBTAIN A 
LICENCE QUALIFYING AS AN AUTHORIZED PERSON  
 
Note: The Authorised Person must, in the event of any change or alteration to any of the particulars set out in application tendered, 
notify the Colombo Port City Economic Commission i n writing of such change or alteration by submission of this form within thirty 
(30) days of the change or alteration together with the necessary documents to evidence such change or alteration. 
 
Licence Number  
 
 
Name of the Authorized Person  
 
 
 DETAILS  Former 
Details  
New  
Details  
Date of  
change  
Reason for 
change 
A.  Name of Authorised Person :     
B.  Address of Authorised Person 
within the Area of Authority of the 
Colombo Port City : 
    
C.  Address of Authorised in the 
country of residency, citizenship, 
incorporation, registration or 
formation : 
    
D.  Legal form of the Authorised 
Person : 
    
E.  Scope or description of business 
activities : 
    
F.  New shareholder(s)/  
members/partners/  founders or 
exit of shareholder(s)/  
members/partners/founders of the 
Authorised Person : 
 
(In the case of a new 
member/partner/founder Part III and/or 
Part IV of the application for a licence as 
an Authorised Person (as applicable) 
must be filled and submitted in relation 
to such new shareholder/ 
member/partner/ founder) 
    
G.  Appointment or cessation of 
director(s)/ members of the 
governing/management body : 
 
(In the case of a new member Part V of 
the application for a licence as an 
Authorised Person must be filled and 
submitted in relation to such new 
director(s)/ members of the 
governing/management body) 
 
    
H.  Details of any affiliates carrying on 
business in Sri Lanka  
(if any) 
    
 
 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
24a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
I.  Change of authorised signatory or 
contact person : 
 
    
J.  Change of details of the 
Supervisory Authority in the 
country of country of residency, 
citizenship, incorporation, 
registration or formation : 
 (if applicable)  
(in the case of offshore banking 
details of the home state financial 
services regulator) 
    
K.  Any other change s: 
(including changes to be notified in 
terms of the agreement between the 
Commission and the Authorised Person) 
    
 
 
 
I hereby confirm that the particulars notified are true to the best of my knowledge.  
 
 
Full name of Director or Authorised Signatory : 
 
 
Signature of Director or Authorised Signatory : 
 
 
Date : 
 
 
 
 
  
 
        
    Day             Month             Year 
 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
25a
 
 
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION: Colombo Port City – AP Schedules  
SCHEDULE I V 
 
ANNUAL RETURN 
 
 
(1) RETURN OF PARTICULARS OF THE AUTHORISED PERSON  
Particulars  
a Licence Number   
b Name of Authorised Person   
c Address of Authorised Person   
d Authorised signatory and contact 
person  Authorised Signatory:   
Contact Person:   
 
(2) RETURN OF FINANCIAL AND OTHER BUSINESS PARTICULARS OF THE AUTHORISED PERSON  
 
I hereby confirm that the particulars notified are true to the best of my knowledge.  
 
 
Full name of Director or Authorised Signatory : 
 
 
Signature of Director or Authorised Signatory : 
 
 
 
Date : 
  
Business Particulars  
a Manpower   Category  Local  Non- 
Local  Total  Expected  
Remuneration  
a)  Managerial & 
Professional 
    
b)  Technical &  
Supervisory 
    
c)  
Operation 
Workers 
• Skilled 
• Unskilled 
    
d)  Clerical & General      
Workers 
    
Total  (a)+(b)+(c)+(d)   
 
b Office space acquired in the Area of 
Authority of the Colombo Port City  
 
Financial Information  
c Foreign direct investments as at date of 
this return  (FCY)  
Currency:  
Quantum:  
Mode of funding (debt or equity):  
Source:  
 
d Other investments as at date of this 
return  (LKR)  
Currency:  
Quantum:  
Mode of funding (debt or equity):  
Source:  
   
 
        
Day             Month             Year 
 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
26a
SChEDULE V
APPLICATION fOR RENEWAL Of LICENCE QUALIfYING LICENSEE AS AN AUThORISED PERSON
Instructions:
1.	 The specimen application and confirming statement provided in Annexure A below must be completed and submitted 
to the Colombo Port City economic Commission (“Commission”).
2.	 In the event of a material change takes place between the submission of the application for renewal and the issue of the 
renewed licence, the Commission shall forthwith be notified of such material change.
3.	 The applicable processing fee may be paid in the manner that the Commission may publish from time to time.  

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
27a
Annexure A
Date: ……………………………………
 
Director General 
Colombo Port City Economic Commission
we/I, (name of applicant) of (address) hereby seek renewal of the licence granted by Colombo Port City economic Commission 
bearing number (current licence number) dated (date of issue of the current licence) qualifying us/me as an authorized person 
and permitting us/me to engage in business in and from the area of authority of the Colombo Port City in terms of the 
provisions of the Colombo Port City economic Commission act, No. 11 of 2021 and regulations issued thereunder.
We/I hereby confirm that:
(a) [all the information in the annual return dated (date of latest annual return) remains true and accurate as at the date 
of this application] or [all the information in the annual return dated (date of latest annual return) as amended by the 
information stated in the notice of change or alteration dated (date of such notice ), remains true and accurate as at the 
date of this application]
1;
(b) the authorised Person remained solvent at all times in accordance with the applicable law in its country of residency, 
citizenship, incorporation, registration or formation and is not undergoing any process pursuant to the applicable insolvency 
or bankruptcy law; and
(c) all laws (regulatory or otherwise) and applicable licensing conditions are complied with.
we/I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by us/me in this application are true and correct. 
      ....................................................
   Signature of Director/Authorised Signatory  
   of the Authorised Person
..............................................
Date (dd/MM/yyyy)                
1  The applicant to select the applicable sentence and include the same in the application presented to the Commission.
 

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2022
28a
SChEDULE VI
NOTICe OF INTeNTION TO sURReNdeR LICeNCe QUaLIFyING LICeNsee as aN aUTHORIsed PeRsON 
Name of Applicant 
Name of Authorised Person 
Relationship of Applicant to Authorised Person 
Number of the Licence of Authorised Person 
Date of Issue of the Licence of Authorised Person 
Date of expiry of the Licence of Authorised Person 
Reason for surrender 
It is hereby certified that the Authorised Person has not: 
(i) in the previous three (3) months,
a. changed its name; 
b. traded or otherwise carried on business; 
c. engaged in any other activity, other than those which are necessary or expedient for the purposes 
of concluding the affairs of the authorised Person or complying with a relevant legal requirement; 
or 
(ii) commenced any process in respect of the authorised Person , or its property, pursuant to the applicable insolvency 
or bankruptcy law.
……………………………..     …………………………………..
Date                 Signature of Applicant
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
eOG  09 - 0355