

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2296$38 - 2022 iema;eïn¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'09'09
No. 2296/38 -  friday,  September 09,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- pG 5967 - 08 (08/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PUBLIC  UTILITIES  COMMISSION  OF  SRI  LANKA
Direction issued under section 18 (9) (a) for Implementation of the recommendations of the report of the 
Public Hearing held in regard to the island wide power failure occurred in the Transmission Licensee’s 
network (Ceylon Electricity Board) on 3rd December 2021.
The Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka hereby gives a direction to the Transmission Licensee, Ceylon electricity 
Board (CeB) operating under License No.eL/T/09-002 issued by it, to implement the following recommendations made 
in the report of the Public hearing held in regard to the island wide power failure occurred in the Transmission Licensee’s 
network (Ceylon electricity Board) on 3
rd December 2021 held on 3rd & 7th March 2022 at the BMICh
1. Unnecessary operation of protection functions and inadequate investigations 
(a) Review the earth fault protections settings of line protection relays, after assessing the sustaining zero sequence 
currents in 220kV transmission lines, and also with the recommendation of OeM (of line protection equipment), 
in order to avoid unnecessary tripping of transmission lines. The CeB’s protection document namely “Protection 
Setting Standard - Principles and Methods for Protection Settings” to be amended accordingly.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.09.2022
2a
(b) Take necessary measures to list the records of operation of Busbar protection equipment in substation automation 
system log in Biyagama grid substation and other grid substations as required, facilitating easy identification of the 
operation of protection functions (eg: operation of end fault protection).
(c) Investigate as to why the Fault locator function of the line protection relay (main 1) was not being able to identify the 
fault location of Kotmale-Biyagama Line-2, and correct any shortcomings (if any) in the implementation of aforesaid 
relay function. Further, assess the implementation of fault locating functionality of other 220kV line protection  
relays too (As this function is useful to quick determination of fault location and the associated rapid troubleshooting 
increase the availability of the line.)
(d) In compliance with the electricity (Transmission) Performance Standard regulations Nos.28, 29 and 30 of 2016 the 
Transmission Licensee (CeB) is required to immediately start calculating the performance indices for power system 
protection and submit to PUCSL on quarterly basis.
(e) Transmission Licensee (CeB) is required to carry out comprehensive analysis of every power system faults and plant 
tripping, in order to improve the power system reliability and stability.
2. Investigation on earth fault and the faulty wiring 
To investigate the possibility of deliberate human interventions in earth fault on Biyagama-Kotmale line-2 and suspected 
faulty wiring of busbar protection system (wiring to provide circuit breaker status to the busbar protection relay), it is 
recommended to perform formal investigation by the law enforcement authorities.
3. Familiarizing the station staff on protection systems
(a) Familiarize the power station staff on protection systems and handover the operation and monitoring activities of 
protection systems to the power station staff or housing one staff from protection branch (at least at the critical 
power stations like Lakvijaya, Kothmale, Victoria, Kelanitissa, etc) as more coordinated and decentralized 
protection system operation is an essential requirement. 
(b) The relevant staff of the Grid Substation to be made aware on protection systems and relevant error types.  
4. Adhering with standard written procedures for repairs and modifications.
It is evident that CeB has not maintained the system according to the prudent utility practices. hence adherence and 
compliance are required with standard written procedures for repairs, replacements, maintenance, modifications, and 
rectifications for all works carried out by the CEB. All the diagrams should be validated by an authorized person. There 
should be an As-built drawing for all alterations. Drawings should be up to the standard, and need to be comprehensible 
to the technical staff. It will reduce the troubleshooting downtime and eliminate the dependence on specific people. Also, 
standard as-built drawings should be kept in all relevant locations.  
5. Increasing the Transmission Line Redundancy
Kotmale Biyagama transmission line redundancy needs to be increased on a priority basis to avoid overloading the 
remaining lines during a trip off of one line.
6. Tripping of Lakvijaya Power Station
Further examine the exact reason for the Lakvijaya tripping. Review the protection schemes of the transmission lines 
connected to Lakvijaya Power Station taking into account the power plants protection settings, to ensure that the 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.09.2022
3a
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
transmission lines do not unnecessarily isolate or cause plant shut down at abnormal operating conditions that do not 
necessarily endanger equipment.
7. Delay in Restoration of Power
(a) Further investigation is required on the delay occurred in restoring Colombo city power. 
(b) Improve the restoration manual with a review of the priority listing to incorporate critical loads like hospitals 
etc, and also considering the adverse effects from industrial / commercial loads having large starting currents. 
   By Order of the Commission,
 Janaka Ratnayake,
 Chairman.
eOG 09-0083