

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1637
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"029 – 2017 cQ,s ui 21 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'07'21
No. 2,029 –  fRiday ,  July  21, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th august, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th July, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1635
N. B.–  (i)  Parts ii, iii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,028 of 14.07.2017 were not published.
B 81190- 5,403 (07/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.07.2017
1636
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.07.2017
1637
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for Promotion 
of the Officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka
Technological Service to Special 
Grade - year 2016
it is hereby notified that, in accordance with the Minute of 
Sri lanka technological Service, published in the Gazette 
extra Ordinary No. 1930/12 dated 01.09.2015, the limited 
Competitive Examination for promotion of officers in Grade 
1 of Sri lanka technological Service to Special Grade will 
be held by the commissioner General of Examinations, in 
colombo, in the month of october 2017.
02. Officers who have satisfied the following 
qualifications as at 31.12.2016 shall apply for this 
examination: 
 (i) Officers who have completed at least as active 
and satisfactory service of five (5) years in 
Grade I of Supervisory Management Assistant 
- technological Service category of Sri lanka 
Technological Service and have earned the five 
(5) salary increments.
 (ii) Officers who have completed a satisfactory 
service of five (5) years immediately preceding 
the date of promotion. 
03. following Salary scale shall be applicable to the 
officers in Special Class.
 (MN-7-2016-A Step 4) Rs.21,125-8x365 -18x500-
Rs.33,045
04. Promotion from Grade i to Special Grade of Sri 
lanka technological Service shall be in the following 
manner.
 (i) Vacancies in each post in Special Grade of Sri 
lanka technological Service existing at each 
Department and Ministry from 01.01.2016 to 
31.12.2016 shall be filled on the results of this 
examination.
 (ii) the results of the limited competitive 
Examination for recruitment to the Special Grade 
shall strictly be applicable to fill the vacancies 
existing from 01.01.2016 to 31.12.2016.
 (iii) Percentage of recruitment :
   limited 40%
   Service experience and merit  60%
 (iv) at the instances where the approved number of 
posts is 04, the percentage of recruitment under 
the limited competitive Examination shall be 
25% and the percentage of recruitment under 
service experience and merit shall be 75%. at 
the instances where the approved number of 
posts is 03, the percentage of recruitment under 
the above limited competitive Examination 
shall be 33.33% and the percentage of 
recruitment under service experience and merit 
shall be 66.66%.
 (v) filling of vacancies shall be made on the 
results of the limited competitive Examination 
subjected to the percentages of the para iV 
above at the instances where the number of 
vacancies in Special Grade is 03 or more.
 (vi) Promotion to Special Grade shall be made by 
the Public Service commission to be effective 
from the date of examination on the order of 
merit of the examination and the number of 
vacancies, after verifying by an interview board 
appointed by the Public Service commission 
that the other relevant qualifications have also 
been fulfilled by those who have passed on the 
results of the limited competitive Examination 
for promotion to Special Grade conducted by 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public 
Administration and Management.
 (vii) Officers, out of the applicants who have satisfied 
the basic qualifications as at the date on which 
each post has fallen vacant, shall be considered 
for the relevant promotions as per order of 
merit at the time of filling the vacancies.
05. (i) this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and 
candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations prescribed by him in respect of 
conducting  the examination and issuance of 
results.
 (ii) the candidates shall be subjected to the 
punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, if such rules 
are violated by them. Rules prescribed for 
candidates are printed separately at the 
beginning of this Gazette notification.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.07.2017
1638
06. the specimen application for admission to this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
candidates are required to prepare their application in 
accordance with the specimen form and officers in the 
public service should forward their applications through 
the respective head of department and officers in the 
provincial public service should forward their applications 
through the Secretary of Public Service commission in 
the provincial council where they serve, by registered 
post to reach the commissioner General of Examinations 
organizations and foreign Examinations Branch, 
department of Examinations, P.o. Box. 1503, colombo on 
or before 21.08.2017. the top left corner of the envelope 
containing the application should bear clearly the title of 
the examination. applications received after the closing 
date of  applications will be rejected.
07. Proof of Identity.– candidates should prove their 
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
Supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose 
one of the following documents should be produced to the 
supervisor of the examination hall.
 (a) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (b) Valid passport.
 the candidature of any applicant who is unable 
to furnish any of the above documents is liable to 
cancellation on the discretion of commissioner 
General of Examinations.
08. Application :
 (i) applications should be prepared in a paper a4 
in size using both sides. No. 01 to 02 should 
appear on the first page. Applications could be 
typed but they should be completed correctly 
and legibly by the candidates in his/ her own 
handwriting.
 (ii) When preparing the application, the title of the 
examination should be written in English in 
addition to Sinhala on Sinhala applications and 
tamil on tamil applications. applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and have not 
been duly perfected shall be rejected without 
notice. therefore, the candidates themselves 
should make sure that the perfected applications 
are in conformity with the specimen form. 
it is advisable to keep a photo copy of the 
application form with the candidate. 
 (iii) candidates are not allowed to change the 
language medium selected by them in their 
applications. if applications are received in all 
three language mediums, i.e. Sinhala, tamil and 
English, the examination will be held in those 
three language mediums. However, candidates 
should answer all the question papers in one 
and the same language selected by them.
 (iv) candidates who appear for this examination 
for the first time are not required to pay any 
examination fee. However, if a subsequent 
sitting, an examination fee of Rs.600/- should 
be paid at any Post Office/Sub Post Office to 
be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of 
the commissioner General of Examinations. 
The receipt obtained thus should be affixed 
in the relevant cage of the application form. 
Money Orders or Stamps are not accepted 
for examination fees. it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt. the fee shall not be 
paid back or shall not be allowed to transfer 
in respect of any other examination under any 
circumstances.
09. (i) the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to the candidates 
who have forwarded duly perfected applications 
along with the receipt if payment of examination 
fee on or before the closing date of examination 
mentioned in the Notification is applicable, 
medium of examination, public service to 
which the applicant belongs, signature of the 
applicant and the attestation of the signature, 
recommendation and certification of the Head 
of the department on the presumption that only 
those who possess the qualifications mentioned 
in the Gazette Notification have applied. 
Officers sitting for the examination must get 
his signature on the admission card attested in 
advance and produce to the supervisor of the 
examination center. it will not be allowed to 
sit for the examination without such admission 
card. further, issuance of an admission card to 
a candidate does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
 (ii) as soon as the admission cards are issued to 
candidates, department of Examinations will 
publish a paper notice announcing the same. 
if the admission card is not received even 
after 2 of 3 days of such an advertisement, it 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.07.2017
1639
should be inquired from the organizations and 
foreign Examinations Branch, department of 
Examinations in the manner as mentioned in 
the notification. The applicant should correctly 
mention the name of the examination applied 
for, full name of the applicant, national identity 
card number and address when making such 
inquiry. in case of applicants outside colombo. 
it would be advisable to make the request 
sending a letter of request stating the same to 
the fax number mentioned in the Notification 
along with the fax number to which a copy 
of the admission card can be sent promptly. 
it would be useful to have the following 
documents in hand at the time of calling the 
department of Examinations, i.e. a photocopy 
of the application form, receipt of payment of 
examination fees (if applicable) and receipt of 
registration.
 (iii) candidate shall get his/ her signature on the 
application and the admission card attested 
by the Head of the institution or an officer 
authorized by him. candidate shall sit for the 
examination at the examination hall assigned to 
him under the specific number given to him and 
produce his admission card with his signature 
attested to the supervisor of the examination 
center on the day of the examination. any 
candidate who fails to produce his admission 
card shall not be permitted to sit for the 
examination.
10. the documents furnished later by the candidates 
who have failed to satisfy the requirement  indicated in 
Para (08) above will not be considered.
11. Issuance of the results of the examination.– action 
shall be taken to issue the results of this examination to the 
Secretary of the Public Service commission. 
12. Scheme of Examination.– Examination for 
promotion of officers in Class 1 to Special Class will 
consist of 2 question  papers.
 (1) aptitude test  - duration 1 hour  - 100 marks
 (2) Management - Duration 3 hours - 100 marks
 candidates shall be required to obtain a minimum 
of 40% of the marks for each question paper to be 
qualified. 
Syllabus of the first question paper shall be as follows:
 Aptitude Test - Subject No. (1)
  A test designed to assess as to whether the officer 
has acquired knowledge, skills and  attitudes required 
for the fulfillment of tasks entrusted to him/her in an 
efficiency beyond the performance at average level 
and whether the officer displays competency in the 
application of the above.
  this question paper consists of 50 questions in 
the form of Multiple Choice and Question for Short 
answers and all the questions should be answered.
 Syllabus of the second question paper will be as 
follows:
 management - Subject No. (2)
 (i) Principles of Management
 (ii) Management functions
 Planning
 Decision Making
 Process of decision making
 organization
 Staffing
 directing
 Motivation Process
 leadership
 control
 Process of controlling
 (iii) Participatory Management
 (iv) Management Environment
 (v) case Study
this is a structured essay type question paper. all the 
questions should be answered.
13. candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of  Examinations 
in conducting the examination and issuing the results. 
candidates are liable to be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
for breach of these rules. in accordance with the regulations 
relevant to this notification, if a candidate is found to be 
ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any stage prior to during or after the examination.
14. the decision of the Secretary of the Public Service 
Commission will be the final in respect of any matter not 
provided for in this notification.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.07.2017
1640
15. in case of an inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil 
and English text of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
 
on the order of the Public Service  commission,
 J. J. RathnasiRi,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration and 
 Management.
Ministry of Public Administration and Management,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
06th July, 2017.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPlICATION
 
(For office use only)
Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha i fY%A‚fha ks,Orhka úfYAI 
fY%A‚hg Wiia lsÍfï iSñ; ;r`. úNd.h - 2016
Limited Competitive examination foR pRomotion of the 
offiCeRs in gRade i of sRi Lanka teChnoLogiCaL 
seRviCe to speCiaL gRade - 2016
01. (a) Medium in which the officer appears for the 
examination :
  (Sinhala-2/ tamil-3/ English - 4) (indicate the 
relevant number in the cage)
  indicate whether you belong to Provincial 
Public Service or which public service
  (indicate the number relevant to the 
public service to which you belong)
 (Western Provincial Public Service - 01/ central 
Provincial Public Service - 02/ Southern Provincial 
Public Service - 03/ Northern Provincial Public 
Service - 04/ Eastern Provincial Public Service - 05/ 
North Western Provincial Public Service - 06/ North 
central Provincial Public Service - 07/ uva Provincial 
Public Service - 08/ Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public 
Service - 09/ central Government Service -10)
 (b) Name in full (English block capital letters) : 
–––––––––––.
  (Eg: HERATH MUDIYANSElAGE SAMAN 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 (c) Name in full initials at the end :––––––––––.
  (in English block capital letters) :––––––––––.
  (eg: GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
 (d) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 (e) Official address (Admissions will be posted to 
this address) : 
  (in English capital letters) :––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––.
 (f) Sex : 
  (Male - 0/ Female - 1)
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  
 (g) National identity card No.:
 (h) t elephone Number :
02. department which you belong to :–––––––––––.
03. designation :–––––––––––.
04. Period of service as at 31.12.2016 : 
 Years  Months Days
05. (i) date of Birth : 
  Year Month Date
 (ii) age as at 31.12.2016: 
  Years Months Days
Paste the receipt of the examination fee of Rs.600
firmly, if not the first sitting.
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy)
Receipt number of the examination fee :–––––––––––.
Office to which the fee was paid :–––––––––––.
amount paid :–––––––––––.
i declare that the particulars furnished above are 
accurate and i am entitled to sit for the examination in the 
language medium mentioned above. furthermore, i hereby 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.07.2017
1641
agree to be abided by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations in conducting the 
examination and issuing the results.
 –––––––––––––,  
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
Note :- Candidate should place his/ her signature in the presence of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized 
to sign on his behalf or Head of the Regional Office.
Attestation of Candidate's Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………….  is presently  employed in my office and is personally known 
to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my  presence on ………………………… and he/ she is exempted from 
payment of examination fee/has paid the examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester.  
  Official Stamp.
date :–––––––––––.
Recommendation and Certification of the Head of the Department
 (i) Recommendation of the Head of the department on the disciplinary inquiries that were carried on or are being 
carried on against the applicant : ...........................................................................................................................
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
 (ii) i hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 01-05 above are correct, that this candidate is eligible 
to sit for the examination, that he/she is eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned 
above and he/ she is exempted from payment of examination fee/ has paid the examination fee and affixed the 
relevant receipt.
 –––––––––––––––, 
 Signature and designation of Head of department. 
 Official Stamp.
date :–––––––––––.
Note.– A certified copy should be sent to the personal file of the candidate and the other copy should be sent to reach 
department of Examinations of Sri lanka promptly. 
07-722
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOvERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  lANKA.