

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'24
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.01.2023
w;s úfYI
wxl 2316$20 - 2023 ckjdrs ui 24 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2023'01'24
No. 2316/20 -  TuesdAy ,  jANuAry 24,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG 6196 - 07 (02/2023)
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
PRADEShIYA  SAbhA  ACT,  No. 15 Of 1987          
THe following orders implemented by me, Tikiri Kobbekaduwa as the Governor of sabaragamuwa Province, by virtue of 
powers vested in me under section 24 and section 223 of the Pradeshiya sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, to be read with the 
section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989, are  hereby published.
Tikiri kobbekaduwa,
Governor of sabaragamuwa Province.
Governor's secretariat,
New Town,
rathnapura.
On 24
th January  2023.
Orders
 1. These orders are called and known as the series of orders for the permanent markings and delimiting on the roads 
and narrow roads maintained by the Pradeshiya sabhas of sabaragamuwa Province, making arrangements to build 
plans and prescribing procedures for advertisements publication with a list of names. 
 2. Pursuant to the section 23 of the Pradeshiya sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, the roads and narrow roads to be considered 
owned by a Pradeshiya sabha to give the permission for the Pradeshiya sabhas located in sabaragamuwa Province 
to act in accordance with section 24 of the that Act for a further period and to establish permanent markings and 
delimiting on those roads and narrow roads and also making arrangements to build plans for those roads and narrow 
roads and publishing advertisements showing the names of those roads and narrow roads should be done according 
to the procedures prescribed in this series of orders. 


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'24
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.01.2023
2A
 3. (a) A further period of 12 months is hereby granted to the Pradeshiya sabhas of sabaragamuwa Province from 
the effective date of 24.01.2023 to carry out the work under sub-section (1) of section 24 of the Provincial 
Council Act No. 15 of 1987 hereinafter referred to as "the Act " to be read with the section 2 of the Provincial 
Council (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989.
  (b) If any Pradeshiya sabha in sabaragamuwa Province hereinafter referred to as "the council" fails to complete  
the work within the 12 months period further authorize by section 3 (a) above and if further time is required 
to complete the work then on the special circumstances that led to it can be requested and the time should be 
no more than 2 years  (a period of two ) from 24.01.2023.
 4. (a) It will be the duty of the sabha to identify the roads and narrow streets hereinafter referred to as "road" and 
to prepare a list of those roads and streets which will be considered to be owned by the sabha under section 
23 of the Act.
	 	 	
  (b) All the roads and narrow streets included in the immovable properties assigned to the sabha under section  
   16 or section 17 of the Act will be acted upon by the sabha to be included in the 4(a) list itself.
	 5.	 (a)	 An	 identification	code	number	in	the	form	of	schedule	01	will	be	allocated	for	each	road	mentioned	in	the	list	
prepared as per 4 (a).
	 		 (b)	 Every	road	an	identification	code	number	is	allocated,	it	will	be	task	of	the	Sabha	to	make	arrangement	to	
collect the following information and related geographical coordinates data.
 I. recording the name of any other road connecting the starting point and the geographical coordinates to 
the left and right of the starting point.
	 II.	 Confirming	 whether	the	road	extends	from	the	left	side	or	the	tight	side	from	any	other	road	that	connects	
to that road.
 III. At every point where the shape of a straight line changes from the beginning of the road recording the 
geographical coordinates of the left and right side of the road.
	 IV.	 Recording	 whether	a	bridge,	culvert,	box	culvert,	weir	or	foot	bridge	or	other	watercourse	that	crosses	the	
road over a river, canal, stream or other water crossing the road and the geographical coordinates indicating 
their location. 
 V . recording the geographical coordinates of the starting point and the ending point of any side wall or any  
other support constructed for the protection of the road.
 VI. recording the geographical coordinates of the starting point and the ending point of the drains constructed 
along the road.
 VII. recording the electric poles where the lights are installed and the geographical coordinates of those places.
 VIII. recording the surface plane used to develop the road from the starting point to the end point and the 
geographical coordinates of each point where the surface plane differs from one another.
 IX. recording the length of the road in meters.
 X. recording the average width of the road and the width of a road in meters.
 XI. recording the left and right geographical coordinates of each point where the road width changes.
	 6. Every	document	and	plan	prepared	under	those	orders	will	be	prepared	using	the	geographical	coordinates	belonging	
to the sri Lanka coordinates structure of the Kandawala/sri Lanka.
	 7. 4	(a)	It	will	be	the	duty	of	the	Sabha	to	prepare	a	plan	in	the	form	of	the	Second	schedule	with	the	help	of	the	data	
collected regarding the roads mentioned in the list.

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'24
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.01.2023
 8. It	will	be	the	duty	of	the	Sabha	to	make	arrangements	for	the	preparation	of	a	document	containing	information	about	 	
each road in accordance with the format of the third schedule.
	 9. (a)		 The	 Sabha	must	decide	by	a	resolution	under	the	First	Sub-Sections	of	Section	24	of	the	Act	to	accept	the	
roads included in the list made under section 4 (a) as roads owned by the sabha.
	 		  (b)	 After	taking	the	decision	of	the	council	under	Section	(a),it	will	be	the	function	of	the	Sabha	to	publish	an	
advertisement in the Gazette containing a list of those roads in  accordance with the Third schedule.
     (c) If any party has a claim relating to the right of any road included in the notice published in the Gazette such 
party will be entitled to proceed under the provisions of the second subsection 24 of the Act.
 10. (a) After publication of a notice under 9 (b) in the Gazette it will be the duty of the sabha to maintain a register  
containing information relating to cases assigned in a competent court regarding  ownership of a particular 
road.
	 					  	(b)	 It	will	be	the	role	of	the	Sabha	to	record	the	information	about	the	case	in	the	register	as	soon	as	the	court	
notifies	the	Sabha	through	a	notice	that	a	person	has	filled	a	case	in	the	court	in	relation	to	a	notice	published	
under	9	(b)	and	the	information	about	that	case	should	be	recorded	in	that	register	and	the	documents	filled	in	
the	incident	case	until		the	final	decision	on	the	case	and	it	will	be	the	role	of	the	Sabha	to	make	arrangements	
to update the document from time to time as per the details of the work record.
	 11. In	any	case	before	the	last	date	specified	by	the	notice	under	Section	9	in	respect	of	the	right	of	any	road	included	
in the notice which has been assigned in a competent court change the boundary marks of that road and make 
arrangements to make necessary changes in that plan and the arrangement will be the work of the house such 
modifications	will	be	valid	from	the		date	of	the	relevant	court	decision.
 12. (a) roads which have undergone necessary changes under section 11 and
  (b) The sabha will adopt a resolution that the roads to which no objection has been raised in accordance with 
the notice in section 9 (b) will be treated as roads owned by the sabha  and a record of those roads will be 
published in the Gazette.
  (c) The adoption of the resolution under section (b) and publication of the notice in the Gazette should be done 
after	the	expiry	of	a	three	months	period	from	the	date	of	publication	of	the	notice	under	Section	9	and	before	
the	expiry	of	a	six	months	period.
	 	 (d)	 In	 respect	of	any	road	which	has	been	filed	in	a	competent	court	in	accordance	with	the	notice	under	Section	
9	(b)	and	a	final	decision	has	been	given	by	that	court	after	publication	of	the	notice	under	Section	12	(b),	
make	necessary	changes	as	may	be	necessary	in	accordance	with	the	final	decision	and	addendums	including	
those roads and it shall be the function of the sabha to cause a notice containing the list to be published in the 
Gazette.
 13.  (a) every road included in a notice published under section 12 will be considered as a road own by the sabha. 
  (b) It will be the function of the sabha to issue an amendment to the notice published under section 12 in any 
case where a road deemed to be owned by the sabha ceases to be used as a road under section 24 (6).
 14. It will be the function of the sabha  to prepare an electronic document and an electronic soft copy  road inventory  
for each road deemed to be owned by the sabha and to update it from time to time.
 15. unless otherwise required by the term, in this orders should mean- 
  " sabha" means the general assemble consisting of members who take decisions regarding all the functions, decisions, 
terms, and actions of the Pradeshiya sabha within sabaragamuwa Province and;
  "Minister" means the Honourable Minister in charge of  Local Government of the sabaragamuwa  Provincial Council 
and;

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'24
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.01.2023
4A
"Governor" means the Honourable Governer of sabaragamuwa Province and;
"Chairman" means an Honorary Chairman of a Pradeshiya sabha in sabaragamuwa Province and;
The term "road" means a road,street, narrow street, base road and a stair deemed to be owned by the council under 
Section		23	of	the	act	and	a	reserve	and	it	also	includes	a	bridge	connected	to	it,	culvert,	box	culvert,	other	watercourse	
that crosses the road over a river, side wall, a tied or staked drain or foot bridge and;
"Surface	of	the	road"	is	a	development	medium	using	a	mixture	of	stones	and	bitumen,	interlocking	stones,	concrete,	
asphalt concerete of fragments and;
Kandawala sri Lanka coordinate structure means ePsG 5234 Kandawala/ sri Lankan Grid.
16. If	there	is	any	inconsistency	between	the	Sinhala,	Tamil	and	English	language	texts	of	these	orders	then	the	Sinhala
text	shall	prevail.
FIRST	SChEdulE
5 (1) Section
Allocating code numbers to roads
The code number allocated for a road deemd to be owned by the sabha should include the followings.
Code: Province/ Pradeshiya sabha/ Base line road (rdA/PrdA)/ The road owned by the local government/ side road
Examples:	SG/WPS/A4/01/01
 ¾ sG - sabaragamuwa Province
 ¾ WPS	-	Weligepola	Pradeshiya	Sabha
 ¾ A4 - Colombo - Batticaloa road (Main road)
 ¾ 01 - side road
 ¾ 01/01	-	Side	road	of	the	first	side	road
 y "sG" should be used for the code allocated for the province.
 y The code alloca ted for Pradeshiya sabha should be allocated according to the instructions given by the 
sabaragamuwa Local Government Commissioner.
 y Base line road means a road belonging to road development Authority or Provincial road development 
Authority. The numbers reserved to that road in a notice published in the Gazette by that institution should 
be used for this purpose.
 y The	next	number	in	the	road	code	should	be	a	number	separated	by	the	order	of	the	roads	extending	from	
the base line road. This number should consist of two digits.
 y Here, "side road" means a side road starting from a road owned by the Local Government. regarding a side, 
a number should be assigned to the last two digits of this code. regarding a road owned by local government 
which is not a side road these last digits should be "00"

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'24
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.01.2023
seCONd sCHeduLe
Section 7
Plan of the Road
North	↑
Catalogue Map
schedule
scale
Coordinates (Kandawala sri Lanka)
Coordinates (Kandawala sri Lanka)
data base :
Prepared by :
date :
Approved by :
date :
Name of the roadroad Number

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'24
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.01.2023
6A
THIrd sCHeduLe
Section 8
sub
Numbers
Code
of the
road
Name
of the
road
Begining
coordinates
(Kandawala/
sri Lanka)
ending
coordinates
(Kandawala/
sri Lanka)
Length
of the
road
(m)
Average
width of
road (m)
developed
width (m)
Left right Left right
section 8
eOG 02 - 0363
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.