

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2382$32 - 2024 uehs ui 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'05'03
No. 2382/32  -  FRidA y,  mA y  03, 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Government Notifications
1A-   G 41866 — 05  (05/2024)
SPORTS LAW, No. 25 OF 1973
REGULATiONS made by the minister of Sports and youth Affairs under Section 41 and read with Section 31 of the Sports 
Law, No. 25 of 1973.
 Harin Fernando (m.P.), 
 minister of Sports and youth Affairs.
At Colombo,
3rd  may, 2024.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the National Associations of Sports Regulations No. 01 of 2024. 
PART I 
Registration of National Sports Associations/ Federations
2. (1) Every application for registration of a National Sports Association / Federation in respect of any sport described 
in Schedule ii hereto shall be-
 
(i) made to the minister to whom the subject of Sports is assigned; 
(ii) substantially in Form A set out in Schedule i hereto; 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
2A
(iii) signed by the President and Secretary of such National Sports Association / Federation; and
(iv) accompanied by the following documents: - 
      
(a)	 a	copy	of	the	Constitution	of	the	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	containing	matters	specified	in	Schedule	
iii hereto;
(b)	 the	name,	office	address	and	the	contact	information	of	such	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation;
(c)  the names, addresses and contact information of present Committee members of such National Sports Association 
/ Federation;
(d)	 a	certified	copy	of	the	Minutes	of	the	Annual	General	Meeting	at	which	such	Committee	Members	were	elected;
(e)	 a	certified	copy	of	the	Audited	Financial	Accounts	of	such	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	for	the	
previous year;
(f)	 details	including	the	Names,	Addresses,	and	other	contact	information	of	Affiliated,	Clubs	and	other	organizations	
of	such	Association	and	the	Committee	Members	of	such	Affiliated,	Clubs	and	other	organizations.
 (2) The duly completed application shall be handed over to the director-General of Sports. 
  (3)  The director-General may prior to registering any National Sports Association / Federation require for any additional 
information as may be necessary.
		 (4)		The	 Minister	shall,	if	he	is	satisfied	that	the	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	applying	for	registration	
has complied with the provisions of the Law, and the regulations made thereunder, direct the director-General to 
inform	the	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	to	remit	a	sum	of	rupees	fifty	thousand	(Rs.50,000/-)	being	the	
registration fee which shall be credited to the National Sports Fund.
  (5)  On receipt of the registration fee, the director General shall register such National Sports Association / Federation 
and	shall	cause	to	issue	to	such	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	a	Certificate	of	Registration	which	shall	
be substantially in Form B set out in the Schedule i hereto.
	 	(6)		Such	Certificate	shall,	unless	earlier	cancelled	or	suspended,	be	conclusive	evidence	for	all	purposes	that	the	National	
Sports	Association	/	Federation	specified	therein	had	been	duly	registered.
  (7)  The director General shall within sixty days from receipt of such application communicate the decision in respect 
of the application to the President and the Secretary who had signed and submitted the application for registration.
 (8)  On receipt of an application for the registration of a National Sports Association / Federation and on payment of the 
said fee, the director General shall recommend to the minister of Sports to register such National Sports Association 
/	Federation,	having	classified	the	Association	/	Federation	based	on	the	following	criteria:
(i)	 Grade	A	-	Annual	turnover	is	Rs.	50	million	and	25	or	more	members/clubs/affiliates.
(ii) Grade B - Annual turnover is Rs. 10 million or more but less than 50 million with 15 or more members/clubs/
affiliates.	
(iii)	Grade	C	-	Annual	turnover	is	less	than	Rs.	10	million	with	any	number	of	members/clubs/affiliates.
Provided that the minister, having regard to the performance of an individual or team at an international Sports Event, may 
elevate the National Association of such Sport to a higher category (Grade A or Grade B as the case may be). 
The director General of Sports, in consultation with the minister shall appoint a Committee comprising not more than 5 
members to assess, evaluate and grade all the National Association of Sports already registered with the department of Sports 
development within three weeks of the publication of this Regulation in the Government Gazette. The said Committee shall 
inform the grading to the director General within one week of the referring of the same for its review. The existing grading 
shall	continue	unless	changed	as	provided	herein	or	upon	an	evaluation	conducted	every	five	(05)	years.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
3A
 (9) The director-General shall maintain a Register of the National Sports Association / Federation registered with the 
ministry of Sports. The Register shall be substantially in Form C set out in the Schedule i hereto.
    
PART  II 
Constitution of National Sports Association/ Federation
3.	 (1)		Every	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	shall	have	a	Constitution	consisting	the	matters	specified	in	Schedule	
iii hereto and shall be registered by the director General:
Provided however that any National Sports Association / Federation which is registered in respect of particular sport on the 
date of commencement of these regulations shall, within three months from the date of commencement of these regulations, 
submit – 
    
(i)	 the	Constitution	consisting	the	matters	specified	in	Schedule	III	hereto	for	registration;	and
(ii) a Corporate Plan for following ten years period including the current level of international ranking, expected 
target within time period and the strategies to increase the level of performance for the approval, to the director 
General.
    
 (2)  Every National Sports Association / Federation shall make or amend its Constitution in accordance with the directions, 
Charters, procedures, rules or regulations of its respective international Sports Federations and submit for approval 
at its Special General meeting.
						(3)	 The	Constitution	shall	be	submitted	to	the	Director	General	for	registration	within	forty	five	days	from	the	date	of	
the approval.
    
4.	 		Every	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	shall	consist	of	Affiliates,	Clubs	or	other	Organizations	which	may	
be related to the particular Sport, as may be determined by the Constitution of such National Sports Association / 
Federation.
    
5. (1) (a) Every National Sports Association / Federation shall elect an Executive Committee consisting of such numbers of 
office	bearers	as	set	out	in	their	Constitution	including	following:
(i) the President and vice- President;
(ii) the Secretary and the Assistant Secretary;
(iii) the Treasurer and the Assistant Treasurer who shall –
    
(a) For a Grade A and B National Sports Association / Federation, a member of the Association of Accounting Technicians 
of	Sri	Lanka	or	a	treasurer	having	the	certificate	issued	by	the	Institute	of	Chartered	Accountants	of	Sri	Lanka,	or	
higher	certificate	or	a	certificate	on	banking	and	finance	issued	by	Institute	of	Bankers	of	Sri	Lanka,	and	an	Assistant	
Treasurer	having	at	least	three-year	experience	in	the	field	of	finance	management.	
    
(b) For a National Sports Association / Federation in Grade C, a Treasurer having experience at least for three years 
as an Account manager and an Account Clerk in a licensed Commercial Bank accredited under the provisions of 
the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 or a licensed special bank or a Finance Company licensed under the provisions 
of the Finance Business Act, No. 42 of 2011 or a Finance Leasing institute registered under the provisions of the 
Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000 or a company incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, No. 
07	of	2007,	and	an	Assistant	Treasurer	having	at	least	three-year	experience	in	the	field	of	finance	management.
	 (2)	 (i)	Every	officer	of	the	executive	committee	shall	be	appointed	at	the	General	Meeting	that	conduct	the	election	for	a	
period of 4 years;
    
	 	(ii)	If	a	certain	officer;
    
	 	(a)	has	 held	the	office	of	President	for	total	period	of	08	years,	such	a	person	shall	not	be	eligible	to	be	re-elected	as	
President. However, he shall be eligible to be elected as a member of the executive committee.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
4A
	 	(b)	has	 held	the	office	of	Secretary	for	total	period	of	08	years,	such	a	person	shall	not	be	eligible	to	be	re-elected	as	
Secretary. However, he shall be eligible to be elected as President or a member of the executive committee.
	 	(c)	has	 held	office	for	a	total	period	of	sixteen	(16)	years,	such	person	shall	not	be	eligible	to	be	re-elected	as	a	member	
of the executive committee in any capacity.
For	avoidance	of	doubt,	no	person	can	hold	office	as	a	member	of	the	executive	committee	for	more	than	a	collective	
period of 16 years. 
However,	in	respect	of	the	officers	including	the	President;	who	have	been	appointed	by	the	election	as	at	the	
effective date of these regulations, the aforesaid regulation shall not be an obstacle to hold the said positions until 
the end of the term to which they have been appointed. 
 
	 (iii)	 However,	if	a	certain	officer	or	committee	member	is	removed	or	punished	or	subjected	to	a	prohibition	by	a	formal	
inquiry;	conducted	by	Sports	Act	and	any	recognized	committee	appointed	under	it;	or	by	the	relevant	International	
Association	or	an	International	Association	affiliated	under	it;	or	on	disciplinary	reasons	by	Disciplinary	Committee	
of	the	National	Association,	such	a	person	shall	not	be	eligible	for	being	re-elected	for	such	office	or	the	committee	
membership.
 (iv)  At an event wherein any Executive Committee member including President, Secretary and Treasurer of certain 
National Sports Association/ Federation proceed in contrast to the Sports Act, Regulations, Orders and the Constitution 
of	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation,	such	an	officer	can	be	removed	from	the	office	by	calling	a	Special	
General meeting in respect of a proposal by simple majority and such proposal shall be passed with 2/3
 majority 
of National Sports Association / Federation entitled to exercise votes, or at a General meeting, even before the 
completion of the relevant term. 
	 (v)	 no	person	shall	hold	office	as	an	executive	committee	member	in	more	than	one	National	Sports	Association	/	
Federation at the same time. 
	 (3)		 	 Any	vacancy	occurring	in	the	office	of	President,	Secretary	or	Treasurer	may	be	filled	at	a	Special	General	Meeting.	
Any	other	vacancy	may	be	filled	at	a	Committee	meeting	subject	to	ratification	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting.
	 (4)	 	 A	person	shall	be	disqualified	from	being	elected	or	otherwise	to	hold	or	continue	to	hold	any	paid	or	unpaid	office	
or to hold any paid or unpaid post or to be a member of a Committee of any National Sports Association / Federation 
or	to	be	nominee	of	an	affiliated	club	or	organization	in	a	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation,	if	he	or	she-
(a)  is or has been adjudged by a competent court to be of unsound mind;
(b) is or has been adjudged by a competent court to be insolvent;
(c)  is or has been convicted in a court of law for any offence and imprisoned for a term not less than six months 
within past four years;
(d)   has been convicted of an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term not less than six months, either by 
a court of competent jurisdiction or by a military tribunal;
(e)  has been found guilty for any offence under the Sports Law or Prevention of Offences Relating to Sports Act 
as amended;
(f)		has	held	office	in	the	Committee	of	a	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	previously	and	has	been	found	
guilty	of	a	financial	misdemeanor,	malpractice,	corrupt	practice,	breach	of	discipline	or	any	such	offence	by	a	
Committee with competent jurisdiction appointed by such National Sports Association / Federation, after due 
inquiry	and	such	findings	makes	him	unsuitable	to	hold	office;
(g)		has	been	an	office	bearer	of	any	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation,	an	Executive	Committee	member	
for whom a written notice has been issued under the Section 32 of the Sports Law and has been convicted of 
violating of the provisions of the Section 32 (a), (b) and (c) of the Sports Law in an inquiry  conducted by a 
formal committee appointed by the National Sports Association / Federation, ministry of  Sports or department 
of Sports development; 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
5A
(h)  has, during the two year period prior to the submission of nomination,     
functioned	as	professional	journalist	attached	to	any	media	organization	as	a	paid	employee	or	as	a	freelance	
journalist	in	electronic	or	print	media	or	who	is	an	owner	or	beneficial	owner	or	co-owner	or	a	major	shareholder	
of	a	media	organization;	
(i)  is a parent or sibling of a competitor in that particular Sports in National Pool or National team; 
(j)  has during the two year period prior to the submission of nominations,     
functioned as a Professional Coach of that National Sports Association / Federation;
(k)  is an agent or manager of a Sports personnel; 
(l)		 is	not,	or	ceases	to	be	a	citizen	of	Sri	Lanka;	
(m)   has, during four years prior to the submission of nominations, been engaged in selling or supplying sports goods, 
sports gear or any item or equipment relating  to such Sport to such National Sports Association / Federation 
or involved in providing sports related training programme or academy or involved in providing sports related 
services; 
(n)  or any member of the immediate family (being a spouse, parent, sibling, son or daughter or son-in law or 
daughter-in-law)	has	an	interest	in	betting,	gaming	or	wagering,	or	in	a	betting,	gaming	or	wagering	organization	
or	is	employed	in	the	day	-to	-day	operations	of	such	organization	or	organizations;	
(o)	 	is	a	public	officer	employed	in	or	posted	to,	the	Ministry	of	Sports;	
(p)  is either serving a ban, suspension or prohibition imposed by the decision - making body of such National Sports 
Association / Federation or a competent body established by such National Sports Association / Federation or 
by	the	International	Sports	Organization	to	which	is	affiliated	or	a	period	of	two	years	have	not	lapsed	after	
serving such ban, suspension or prohibition on the date of submission of nominations; 
(q)  has during the four years prior to the submission of nominations had been serving a punishment imposed on 
him by an Anti-doping or an Anti-Corruption Tribunal of such National Sports Association / Federation or the 
Sri	Lanka	Anti-Doping	Agency	or	of	the	International	Sports	Organization	or	Federation	to	which	it	is	affiliated	
or World Anti-doping Agency, for doping, corruption, betting and misuse of inside information; or he has been 
subjected to a ban, suspension or prohibition imposed by such National Sports Association / Federation or 
International	organization	or	the	World	Anti-Doping	Agency;	
(r)  being a person who represented the country in an international sports event with the approval or concurrence 
of the minister of Sports for an activity related to sports and had not returned to Sri Lanka;
 (s)  is or becomes an elected or nominated member of Parliament, any Provincial Council or any Local Authority: 
 (t)  he is being a member of Election Committee of such National Sports Association / Federation; 
(u)	(i)		 he	being	a	person	who	is	holding	the	post	of	President,	Secretary,	Treasurer	or	Cheque	signing	officer	or	
other	responsible	officer	in	that	regard	of	a	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	which	has	failed	or	
neglected	to	submit	an	Audited	Financial	Statement	certified	by	the	committee	within	02	months	after	the	
end	of	financial	year	which	is	the	stipulated	time	period	is	found	guilty	at	an	inquiry	conducted	by	a	formal	
inquiry board appointed by the National Sports Association / Federation or the minister in charge of the 
subject of Sports or the ministry of Sports or the department of Sports development ; 
	 (ii)	 he	being	an	Executive	Committee	Member	who	is	found	guilty	of	a	financial	misuse	or	financial	fraud	in	
respect of the Accounts Reports submitted to the Auditor General within 02 months after the end of the 
financial	year	or	after	the	due	date	at	an	inquiry	conducted	by	a	formal	committee;	A	formal	committee	
means a committee appointed by the General meeting of the National Sports Association / Federation or 
Special General meeting or Executive Committee or disciplinary Committee of the Association or else the 
minister in charge of the subject of Sports or ministry of Sports or the department of Sports development; 
 (iii) he being a person who is holding the post of President, Secretary, Treasurer or the other Cheque signing 
officer	of	a	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	which	has	not	submitted	the	Audited	Financial	Statements	
certified	by	the	Executive	Committee	within	02	months	after	the	end	of	each	financial	year,	such	persons	
are not permitted to submit nominations for the posts in the forthcoming year of election until the inquiry 
is conducted and the offender is determined;
  

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
6A
	 (5)			 	 Every	office	bearer	of	the	Committee	of	the	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	who	is	in	any	way,	directly	
or indirectly, interested in any procurement shall disclose the nature of his interest on an annual basis.
 (6)   The director General shall have the power to inquire into any violation of the said provisions. The director General 
after	being	satisfied	that	an	officer	of	the	executive	committee	is	in	violation	of	the	provisions	herein	shall	take	
appropriate	steps	against	such	officer	of	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	in	the	following	manner;	
	 	 (i)		Remove	the	said	officer	from	such	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation.	In	the	event	of	a	person	holding	office	
in	more	than	one	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation,	remove	such	officer	from	the	committees	of	all	such	
National Sports Association/ Federation;
	 	(ii)	 Impose	a	ban	on	such	officer	from	holding	office	in	any	National	Sports	Association		/Federation	for	a	period	not	
less	than	three	(3)	years	and	not	more	than	five	(5)	years;
  (iii)  make a recommendation to the minister in charge of Sports to take any further appropriate action in terms of the 
Sports Law;
PART III
Duties, Powers and Functions of a National Sports Association/ Federation
6.  Every National Sports Association / Federation shall have the following duties, powers and functions to -
   (i)  develop and promote the relevant sport at every level in every part of Sri Lanka;
		(ii)	 improve	the	facilities	needed	to	promote	and	popularize	such	Sport	with	a	view	to	increasing	the	participation	of	
players in such Sport and to achieve national and international recognition and grading;
 (iii)  uplift the standards of such sport to the level of international ranking;
 (iv)  increase the level of performance of the National Team;
 (v)  identify the talented personal in such sports in every age group and provide support to them in every way and 
manner;
 (vi)  formulate a transparent selection criteria to select the players in accordance with the National Sports Selection 
Committee	appointed	by	the	Minister,	with	due	consideration	to	the	selective	criteria	specified	by	respective	
international Sports Federation and the term for representing the country in international or regional sports event in 
coordination with the director General;
 (vii)  ensure transparency in administration and governance;
 (viii)  provide training programmes to increase the capabilities and talents of players;
 (ix)  maintain high performing athletes tracking systems by use of players data bases, comprising information about bio 
data of players, participated event, games, matches, tournaments, teams represented, their performances and where 
seeding, grading or ranking are given, such seeding, ranking and grading;
	(x)		 enter	into	Memorandum	of	Understanding	with	the	Ministry	of	Sports	for	obtaining	financial	support;
 (xi)  prepare Corporate Plan for a period of ten years including the current level of international ranking, expected target 
within time period and the strategies to increase the level of performance;
 (xii)  prepare an Annual Action Plan for succeeding year and submit it to the director General three months prior to the 
expiry of current year;
	(xiii)	 	submit	to	the	Auditor	General	the	Financial	Statement	certified	by	the	Committee	within	two	months	of	the	ending	
of	each	financial	year;
 (xiv)  holding the Annual General meeting; and

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
7A
(a)  immediately after Executive Committee is appointed in the election of the National Sports Association / 
Federation,	the	Executive	Council	shall	inform	all	the	affiliated	member	institutes	and	obtain	the	nominations	
to elect the members of Technical Committee, Finance Committee and disciplinary Committee for a period of 
04	years,	and	make	the	appointments	as	per	the	qualifications.
(b) in order to appoint the Selection Committee of National Sports Association / Federation for a period of Two (02) 
years,	the	relevant	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	shall	duly	inform	all	the	member	institutes	affiliated	
to their Sports Associations/ Federations to obtain nominations and select the most suitable Ten (10) members 
at an Executive Committee meeting, and the applications together with the selected list of nominees shall be 
referred to the National Sports Selection Committee with a copy to the director General of the department of 
Sports development. The National Sports Selection Committee shall submit its recommended list of the said 
nominees to subject minister in charge for approval through the Secretary to the ministry.
in the event any National Sports Association / Federation not being able to comply with the aforesaid regulation, the National 
Sports Selection Committee may seek a waiver from the Secretary to the ministry of Sports.
(c) Conduct a Special General meeting to elect the members to the Election Committee. 
(xv) lf the Audited Financial Statement/s of the preceding year/s is/are to be adopted by the Auditor General, table the 
Annual Report together with such documents at its Annual General meeting or at a Special General meeting. 
(xvi) submit following documents to the director-General within one month of the Annual General meeting of every 
year: -
(a)	 where	necessary,	bio	data	of	the	office	bearers	elected	to	such	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation;
(b)	 a	certified	copy	of	the	Minutes	of	the	Annual	General	Meeting	together	with	a	copy	of	the	Attendance	Register;
(c)	 a	certified	copy	of	the	Audited	of	Financial	Statement	for	the	financial	year	presented	before	the	Annual	General	
meeting and proof that such Audited of Financial Statement has been adopted at the Annual General meeting;
(d) the names and contact information of the members of the Election Committee elected at such Annual General 
meeting;
(e) development plan for a period as may be set out in their Constitution including tournament calendar and talent 
identification	programme;
(f)  a bi-annual progress report on activities of National Sports Association / Federation for information and monitoring 
of	financial	assistance	granted	by	the	Government;
(xvii)	 submit	a	notice	at	least	21	days	(Twenty	one	days)	prior	to	the	Annual	General	Meeting	to	its	affiliates	including	
the	list	of	the	members	entitled	to	be	present	and	to	vote	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting,	a	certified	copy	of	the	
Audited	Financial	Statement,	of	the	preceding	financial	years	along	with	the	list	of	nominees;
(xviii)	 register	affiliates,	clubs	and	other	organizations	engaged	in	the	particular	Sport	and	maintain	a	Register	which	shall	
be substantially in Form d set out in the Schedule i hereto;
(xix)	 issue	a	Certificate	of	Registration	to	such	affiliate,	club	or	other	organization;	
(xx) (a)  Submitting reports to the director General of Sports to facilitate the supervision and monitoring activities of 
other main member sports clubs of the National Sports Association / Federation, from the regional sports clubs; 
the lowest unit of the National Sports Association / Federation, to the d istrict Sports Associations and Provincial 
Sports Associations. 
        (b)  inquiring whether the district Sports Association promotes the relevant sport within its territory, conducts not 
less than 02 regional tournaments annually, trains athletes and maintains permanent pool of athletes and whether 
the district Association monitors and supervises the local sports clubs in a proper manner, and reporting to the 
director General of Sports. 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
8A
        (c) Reporting to the director General of Sports on the details of conducting not less than 02 inter-district sports 
tournaments annually by the provincial association of sports within its jurisdiction, training of athletes and 
maintaining permanent provincial sports reserves, promoting the relevant sport within their jurisdiction, and 
whether the Provincial Associations of Sports property monitor and supervise the district Associations of Sports.
 (xxi)  follow government standard procurement procedures in respect of procurement and awarding of tenders at the 
circumstances wherein the relevant National Sports Association / Federation does not have a legally prepared 
procurement guideline. 
(xxii)  follow procurement procedure laid down by the Government of Sri Lanka or National Procurement Commission 
in respect of any procurement for funds which received from locally or internationally;
 (xxiii)  enter into any agreement with an international Federation with the approval of the ministry of Sports to conduct 
any international Sports events in Sri Lanka unless such National Sports Association / Federation has all funding 
required for conducting such event;
 (xxiv)  to make rules to regulate the procedure in regarding to the meetings of the Committee of the National Sports 
Association / Federation and the transaction of business at such meetings; 
(xxv)		 where	necessary,	to	appoint	such	number	of	officers	to	the	staff	of	the	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation.
(xxvi)	 	Each	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	has	the	responsibility	to	include	and	affiliated	Sports	Associations	
consisted with the persons having special needs (with physically disabled, visual impairments and hearing 
impairments etc.) related to their sports.
(xxvii)  The details about all activities including elections of the sports clubs, institutes, district Sports Associations, 
Provincial	Sports	Associations	or	the	sports	clubs	and	member	organizations	affiliated	to	a	District	or	Provincial	
Association;	affiliated	to	a	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation,	shall	be	presented	annually	by	the	respective	
National Sports Association / Federation to the director General of Sports.
(xxviii)		When	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	enter	into	international	agreements	and	international	financial	
transactions, such National Sports Association / Federation shall act with transparency and integrity subject to 
the	financial,	anti-corruption	and	anti	-	money	laundering	laws	of	the	country	adhering	to	the	financial	discipline	
and integrity. 
7. (i)  The power of making recommendations in respect of appointing the Selection Committee of all National Sports 
Associations / Federations should be vested only in National Sports Selection Committee and the particulars about 
dates, venues, relevant details and selection criteria of the selection trials should be informed to the athletes before 
14 days. The copies of all such details should be presented in writing to the National Sports Selection Committee 
also on the same day. The National Sports Selection Committee has the power to cancel the selection trials of 
the National Sports Associations / Federations that do not present such particulars and the selection trials held on 
personal discretion of the President / Secretary and Coaches of National Sports Associations / Federations as well 
as the selections made thereby. 
 (ii)  All National Sports Associations / Federations should present the selection criteria to the National Sports Selection 
Committee 28 days before the conduct of selection trials; and the selection criteria should be published in their 
official	website	and	the	website	of	the	Ministry	in	charge	of	the	subject	of	Sports.	Also,	at	the	end	of	the	selection	
trials,	its	results	should	be	published	in	their	official	website	and	the	correct	name	list	of	selected	athletes	should	
be submitted for the recommendation of the National Sports Selection Committee. The objections, if any, on these 
results of the competition should directly be presented to the National Sports Selection Committee. Subsequent to 
considering	the	objections,	list	of	verified	results	together	with	all	the	details	should	be	published	on	the	same	day	
in	the	official	website	of	the	National	Sports	Associations	/	Federations.	

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
9A
(iii)	 	The	participation	of	the	project	officer	in	charge	of	the	relevant	national	sport	at	the	Ministry	of	Sports	should	be	
taken for the selection trials and the National Sports Selection Committee should be informed accordingly. 
(iv)  At the end of the selection trials, following particulars should be provided to the National Sports Selection Committee 
in writing on that day itself or the following day:
 
(a)		 Attendance	sheet	of	the	selection	committee	members	who	participated	for	the	selection	trials	certified	by	the	
President or Secretary of the National Sports Association / Federation. 
(b)  Name list of athletes who participated for the selection trials signed by the selection committee members of 
the National Sports Association / Federation. 
(c)		 The	record	describing	the	way	of	selection	of	all	athletes	and	the	sheet	of	awarding	marks	for	them	certified	
by the selection committee of the National Sports Association / Federation. 
(d)  details of the events participated, the places achieved by the selected athletes and their correct name list 
including the additional athletes. 
(v)  The National Sports Selection Committee is vested with the power to conduct inquiries / investigations and to make 
recommendations with reference to all appeals / complaints received by the National Sports Selections Committee 
at the end of the selection trials of the National Sports Associations / Federations, subject to provisions contained 
in Part iV here in.
(vi)  The membership changes occurred in Executive Committees of all National Sports Associations / Federations 
should be informed in writing to the National Sports Selection Committee. 
(vii)  When giving the appointment letters to the selection committees of the relevant National Sports Associations / 
Federations recommended by the National Sports Selection Committee, a copy of it should be provided to the 
National Sports Selection Committee by the ministry of Sports. 
(viii)  A database on the details of the athletes of all national pools should be prepared, updated and maintained by the 
National Sports Selection Committee. in that regard, the particulars of the talents and bio-data of all athletes in the 
pools of National Sports Associations / Federations should be referred to the National Sports Selection Committee. 
The information on the inclusion / removal of athletes after naming the national pools should be provided to the 
National Sports Selection Committee. 
(ix)  Nomination should not be given for any international tournament prior to obtain the approval of the National 
Sports Selection Committee and an appropriate method should be followed in recommending coaches / managers 
/ assistant coaches / sport trainers / masseur for such international tournaments and the agreement of the National 
Sports Selection Committee should be obtained thereto in line with below criteria: 
(a)	 The	contribution	to	the	field	of	sports	thus	far,	
(b)	 Their	present	performance	in	the	field	of	sports,	
(c) Knowledge, understanding and experience in the relevant sport, 
(d) Skills shown as an athlete / coach.
PART IV
The Procedure in Appealing against decisions or actions of National Sports Association/ Federation
OMBUDSMAN
8.	 (1)		Minister	in	charge	of	Sports	in	consultation	with	National	Sports	Council	shall	appoint	a	fit	and	proper	person	as	
Sports Ombudsman. Such Ombudsman shall be a retired Grade (i) / Special Grade SLAS (Sri Lanka Administrative 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
10A
Service)	official.	A	person	appointed	as	Ombudsman	shall	hold	office	for	a	period	of	three	years	and	shall	be	eligible	
for	re-appointment	for	a	further	period	of	three	years.	No	person	shall	hold	the	office	of	Ombudsman	for	more	than	
six years.
    (2) The duty of the Sports Ombudsman shall be to conduct independent and impartial investigation for any person who 
is aggrieved by any decision or action of a registered National Sports Association / Federation. The person aggrieved 
shall request in writing to Sports Ombudsman within a period of 14 days of such decision or action. After a fair and 
impartial review, the Sports Ombudsman shall make recommendations to the Sports minister through the director 
General of Sports within 14 days of receiving such request.
     (3) The remuneration of the Ombudsman shall be decided by the minister in charge of Sports in consultation with the 
Secretary to the ministry of Sports and paid through the National Sports Fund.
    (4) Referring any dispute pertaining to a decision or action of a registered National Sports Association / Federation to 
the Ombudsman shall be a pre-condition to any appeal to the Appeals Advisory Committee pertaining to decision 
or action of a registered National Sports Association / Federation. The time period applicable to make such appeal 
to the Appeals Advisory Committee shall not apply until a recommendation is made by the Ombudsman.
     (5) The minister in charge or the director General shall not be bound by the recommendations of the Sports Ombudsman.
     (6) Every National Sports Association / Federation shall make aware of the availability of the Ombudsman to its’ 
members and sports personnel on an annual basis together with the contact details of such Ombudsman.
APPEALS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
9.  (1)  The minister in charge of Sports shall appoint an Appeals Advisory Committee comprising 10 members headed by a 
retired Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of Appeal. The members of an Appeal Advisory Committee shall hold 
office	for	a	period	of	three	(3)	years	and	may	be	eligible	for	re-appointment	for	a	further	period	of	three	(3)	years.	
No	person	shall	hold	office	as	a	member	of	the	Appeals	Advisory	Committee	for	more	than	six	(6)	years.
					 (2)	 The	Minister	shall	appoint	a	Secretary	to	Appeals	Advisory	Committee.	Such	Secretary	shall	hold	office	for	a	
period	of	three	(3)	years	and	may	be	appointed	for	a	further	period	of	three	(3)	years.	No	person	shall	hold	office	as	
Secretary of the Appeals Advisory Committee for more than six (6) years.
     (3) The remuneration of the members of the Appeals Advisory Committee and the Secretary to Appeals Advisory 
Committee shall be decided by the minister in charge of Sports in consultation with the Secretary to the ministry 
of Sports and paid through the National Sports Fund.
    (4) Any person who is aggrieved by the recommendations of the Ombudsman may make an appeal to the Appeals 
Advisory Committee through the Secretary to the ministry of Sports. Any Appeal to the Appeals Advisory Committee 
shall have the same effect as an appeal made to the minister as provided in Section 30 of the Sports Law.
    (5) Such appeal shall be forwarded within 14 days from the date of the recommendation/s of the Ombudsman. 
    (6)  in order to substantiate the said appeal, all the relevant evidences and other required particulars, as well as the original 
of the receipt obtained after paying a non-refundable sum of Fifty Thousand Rupees (Rs. 50,000/-) for Grade A 
National Sports Association / Federation, Twenty Five Thousand Rupees (Rs. 25,000/-) for Grade B National Sports 
Association / Federation and Fifteen Thousand Rupees (Rs. 15,000/-) for Grade C National Sports Association / 
Federation in valid currency of Sri Lanka to the Shroff of the ministry shall be presented to the Secretary in charge 
of Sports with four (04) copies together with the said appeal. All the charges paid for the appeals shall be credited 
to the National Sports Fund. Any appeal preferred by an athlete connected to his or her player selection or player 
payments is exempted from making any payment.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
11 A
    (7) The Secretary to the ministry of Sports shall forward the duly perfected Appeals to the Secretary of the Appeals 
Advisory Committee within 7 days of payment. in the event of any vacancy of Secretary to the Appeals Advisory 
Committee, the Secretary to the ministry of Sports shall forward such appeal directly to the Appeals Advisory 
Committee. 
			 (8)	 The	Appeals	Advisory	Committee	may	call	for	further	material	as	they	deem	fit	and	shall	make	their	recommendations	
within 14 days of the receipt of such Appeal and forward the same to the minister in charge of Sports through the 
Secretary to the ministry of Sports. 
   (9) The minister in charge shall not be bound by the recommendations of the Appeals Advisory  Committee.
PART V
Rescission of Regulations
10.  The following Regulations made by the minister of Sports in terms of the Sports Law is hereby rescinded without 
prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder. 
National	Association	of	Sports	Regulations,	No.	1	of		2016	published	in	Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	1990/23	of	October	27,	2016
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2006/13	of	February	13,	2017
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2017/41	of	May	05,	2017
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2089/56	of	September	22,	2018
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2093/39	of	October	18,	2018
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2105/38	of	January	10,	2019
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2128/8	of	June	18,	2019
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2137/85	of	August	23,	2019
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2137/86	of	August	23,	2019
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2166/9	of	March	10,	2020
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2173/13	of	April	30,	2020
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2177/8	of	May	27,	2020
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2186/31	of	July	31,	2020
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2193/55	of	September	18,	2020
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2194/4	of	September	21,	2020
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2194/54	of	September	23,	2020
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2202/17	of	November	19,	2020
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2207/7	of	December	23,	2020
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2215/47	of	February	19,	2021
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2230/7	of	June	01,	2021
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2272/40	of	March	23,	2022
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2281/36	of	May	26,	2022
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2281/37	of	May	27,	2022
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2296/19	of	September	08,	2022
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2297/94	of	September	17,	2022
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2298/50	of	September	22,	2022
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2304/88	of	November	05,	2022
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2310/26	of	December	14,	2022
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2310/28	of	December	14,	2022
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2331/10	of	May	08,	2023
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2334/22	of	May	31,	2023
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2342/48	of	July	28,	2023
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2344/22	of	August	09,	2023
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2345/65	of	August	17,	2023

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
12A
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2351/07	of	September	25,	2023
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2356/43	of	November	5,	2023
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2366/42	of	January	13,	2024
Gazette	Extraordinary	No.	2368/21	of	January	24,	2024
11.  Every National Sports Association / Federation registered under the rescinded regulations shall deem to be the National 
Sports Association / Federation registered under these Regulations. 
PART VI
Interpretation
12.   in these regulations unless the context otherwise requires- 
  “athlete” shall mean any person who participates in any sport at the international or national level or any sports 
event; 
  “betting” shall mean and include- 
       (a) placing, accepting, laying or otherwise entering into any bet with any other party (whether individual, company or 
otherwise) in relation to the result, progress, conduct or any other aspect of any game, match or event; 
							(b)	 soliciting,	inducing,	enticing,	instructing,	persuading,	encouraging,	facilitating	or	authorizing	any	other	party	to	
enter into a bet in relation to the result, progress, conduct or any other aspect of any match or event or game; 
       (c) ensuring the occurrence of a particular incident in a match or event or game, which occurrence is to the player’s 
knowledge the subject of a bet and for which he expects to receive or has received any reward;
	 	 “corruption”	 shall	mean	fixing	or	contriving	in	any	way	or	otherwise	influencing	improperly,	or	being	a	party	to	
any	effort	to	fix	or	contrive	in	any	way	or	otherwise	influence	improperly,	the	result,	progress,	conduct	or	any	other	
aspect of any match or event; 
  “doping” means any offence in terms of the Convention against doping in Sports Act, No. 33 of 2013 or any 
amendment thereto; 
  “major Tournament” “meet” or “competition” means, a tournament, meet or competition as may from time to time 
be approved by the minister on a recommendation made in that behalf by a National Sports Association / Federation; 
  “National Sports Association / Federation” has same meaning as in the Sports Law and shall include the members 
and	affiliates	of	such	National	Sports	Association	and	or	Federation;	
  “Sports Law” means the Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973 or any amendment thereto.
  Prevention of Offences Against Sports Act shall mean Act No.24 of 2019 
                                                                                                                            
(Regulation 2) 
SCHEDULE I
FORM   A
Application for Registration of a National Sports Association / Federation
1. Name of National Sports Association / Federation: ................................................................................. 
2. Address: ..................................................................................................................... 
3. date of formation of the National Sports Association / Federation: ...........................…............... 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
13A
4. Name of Sports or Group of Sports ..................... 
5. The following documents are attached to this application: 
(a)	 a	certified	copy	of	the	Constitution	of	such	Association	containing	matters	set	out	in	the	Schedule	III	hereto	as	
guidelines; yes/No 
(b)	 the	name,	office	address	and	the	contact	information	of	such	Association	and	the	names,	addresses	and	contact	
information	of	present	office	bearers	of	the	Committee	of	such	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation;	Yes/No	
(c)	 a	certified	copy	of	the	Minutes	of	the	Annual	General	Meeting	at	which	such	office	bearers	were	elected;	Yes/No	
(d)	 a	certified	copy	of	the	Audited	Accounts	of	such	National	Sports	Association	for	the	previous	year;	Yes/No	(if	
applicable) 
(e)	 details	including	the	names,	addresses,	and	other	contact	information	of	Affiliated,	Clubs	and	other	organizations	
of	such	Association	and	the	Committee	Members	of	such	Affiliated	Clubs	and	other	organizations.	Yes/No	
6.	 Date	of	the	Annual	General	Meeting	at	which	the	present	office	bearers	of	the	Committee	mentioned	above	were	elected:	
........................................ 
 The application is being made consequent to a Resolution passed at the General meeting of the …...............................
(name	of	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation)	duly	authorizing	the	submission	of	the	Application	of	Registration.	
 (Attach of a copy of the Resolution and a copy of the minutes of the meeting) 
 Signature of President of National Sports Association / Federation:  
 Name and Address: 
 date: 
 Signature of Secretary: 
 Name and Address: 
 Signature of Applicant:
                                                                                                                                    
(Regulation 2) 
FORM B
Certificate of Registration of a National Sports Association / Federation
Name of National Sports Association / Federation: ………………………………………………………. 
It	is	hereby	certified	that	the................................................................	has	been	registered	under	section	29	of	the	Sports	Law,	
No. 25 of 1973 as the National Sports Association / Federation for (name of the sport) .....................................................with 
effect from this …........................ day of ..................... 20............... The registration number is granted to the Association is 
………………….…........
                  .....................................
date: ...........................                                                                                     director General of Sports.
                             

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
14A
(Regulation 2) 
FORM C
Register of registered National Sports Association / Federation
1. Name of the Sports or Group of Sports: ................................................................................................... 
2. Particulars of Order under section 28 of the Sport Law: ....................................................................... 
				(1)	Date/Number	of	the	Gazette:	.............................................................	
    (2) File No. of the Sport ministry/ dept. of Sports development: .............................................. 
3. date of 1 st  Registration as a National Sports Association / Federation: ...............................................
4.	 Address	and	contact	information	of	the	Association	and	office	bearers:	............................................	
5.  Any previous cancellation/suspension of registration and dates of cancellation/suspension: ................................. 
6.  interim Committee (if and period): ................................................... 
7.  Annual General meetings held: yes/No and date: ................................. 
8.  Annual Accounts audited by the Auditor General: yes/No 
9.  Constitution registered by the director General: yes/No. ............ date: ........................... 
10. National Tournaments conducted :……………………………………….. 
 
(Regulation 7) 
FORM D
PART A
Register of Members directly affiliated to National Sports Association / Federation
1. Name of the National Sports Association / Federation: - …................................................................. 
2.	Name	of	Affiliate	Body:	-	….....................................................................................................	
3. Address: - …..............................................................................................................................
4. Number of members: - …........................................................................................................ 
5.Number of representatives allowed to be present at Annual General meetings:- .......................................................…........
............................................................................................... 
6.Number of votes allowed to members at Annual General meetings:- ........................................................................…..…..
7. Names of members: - ….......................................................................................................... 
8.	Names	and	Address	of	office	bearers	with	titles:	-	…...........................................................	
9. Names and Address of members of the committees: - …..................................................... 
PART B
 
Register of Members affiliated to Provincial Associations, District Associations, Federations, Leagues or any other 
Organizations which are affiliated to the National Sports Association / Federation
1.	Name	of	Provincial	Association,	District	Association,	Federation,	League	or	any	other	Organization:	-	............................
2. Address: - …......................................................... 
3.	Name	of	affiliate	body:	-	….................................	
4. Address: - ….......................................................... 
5. Number of members: - …....................................... 
6.	Names	and	Address	of	office	bearers	with	titles:	-	…................................	
7. Names and Address of members of the committees: - …............................                 
         

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
15A
 (Regulation 2)
SCHEDULE  II
Names of Sports
1. Badminton 
2. Aquatic Sports 
3. Body Building 
4. Cycling 
5.	Rifle	
6. Hockey 
7. Karate do 
8. y achting 
9. Rugby
10. Weightlifting 
11. Gymnastic 
12. Golf 
13. Wrestling 
14. Automobile Sports 
15. Basket Ball 
16. Athletics
17. Cricket 
18. Netball 
19. Tennis 
20. Bridge 
21. Carrom 
22. Life Saving 
23. Boxing 
24. Judo 
25. Billiards & Snooker 
26. Football 
27. V olleyball 
28. Elle 
29. Chess 
30. Rowing 
31. Table Tennis 
32. Squash 
33. Taekwondo 
34. Softball Cricket 
35. Powerlifting 
36. Kabaddi 
37. Sports for the disabled (Paralympics)
38. motor Cycle Sports 
39. Baseball 
40. Wushu 
41. Throw ball 
42. Archery 
43. Equestrian 
44. Traditional Karate 
45. Handball 
46. Tug of War 
47. Shooting 
48. Fencing 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
16A
49. Roller Skating 
50. Sepak Takrow 
51. Sumo 
52. modern Pentathlon 
53. Ju Jitsu 
54. Sambo 
55. Kho-Kho 
56. Angampora 
57. Kudo 
58. Ballroom dancing 
59. Roll Ball 
60. Climbing and mountaineering 
61. Canoeing and Kayaking 
62. Scrabble
63. muay Thai
64.	Unifight
65. Powerboat
66.	Surfing
67. Ball Badminton
68. French Savate
69. Lawn Bowl
70. eSports
71. Teqball
72. Jeet Kune - do
73. Korfball
(Regulation 2, 3 and 5) 
SCHEDULE III
Matters relating to the Constitution of the National Sports Association / Federation
Every National Sports Association / Federation shall have the Constitution containing the following matters:
 
   (a)  to hold an Annual General meeting with the audited accounts once a year, on or before three months from the date of 
the	end	of	financial	year	of	such	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation;	
			(b)		to	conduct	election	to	elect	office	bearers	of	the	Committee	of	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	in	accordance	
with the Constitution and in free and fair manner; 
		(c)		 the	manner	of	representation	and	voting	rights	of	its	affiliated,	clubs	and	other	organizations;	
		(d)	 	to	enable	relevant	Affiliates,	Clubs	and	other	Organizations	be	entitled	to	cast	vote	at	the	election,	which	should	be	
exercised	in	accordance	with	the	mandate	given	by	their	respective	Affiliated,	Clubs	and	other	Organizations;	
		(e)		 to	appoint	provincial	or	district	officers	who	shall	be	responsible	for	the	co-ordination	of	activities	of	affiliates,	clubs	
in the relevant districts and report back to the National Sports Association / Federation; 
		(f)		 to	appoint	not	more	than	two	representatives	of	affiliated	School	Associations	to	the	Decision-Making	Committee	of	
such	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation,	upon	nomination	of	such	School	Association	affiliated	and	whether	
appointees are eligible for voting rights; 
  (g) to hold the committee meetings of such Associations at least once a month and that at least one representative of the 
School Associations should be present at such meetings; 
		(h)		to	 give	not	less	than	forty	days’	Notice	in	writing	to	its	Affiliates,	Clubs	and	other	Organizations	of	Annual	General	
meeting of such National Sports Association / Federation; 
		(i)		 to	give	Annual	Report	and	a	copy	of	the	Audited	Financial	Statement	certified	by	the	Auditor	General	pertaining	to	the	
preceding	financial	year,	at	least	twenty	one	days	prior	to	the	Annual	General	Meeting;

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 03.05.2024
17A
  (j)  to give a list of members entitled to be present and eligible to vote at such Annual General meeting specifying the 
number	of	votes	each	such	person	is	entitled	to	exercise,	to	its	Member	Affiliates,	Clubs	and	other	Organizations,	at	
least 21 days prior to Annual General meeting;
		(k)	to	deny	voting	right	to	any	member	Affiliates,	Clubs	and	other	Organizations	who	has	not	participated	in	required	
Tournament, matches or Games for a period and deny voting rights for new members at the meeting during which 
they are accepted as new members; 
		(l)		 to	make	it	obligatory	for	the	immediately	past	office	bearers	of	the	Committee	of	the	National	Sports	Association	/	
Federation to hand over all documents, passwords, Bank account details and electronic data relating to the matters of 
such	Association	to	newly	appointed	office	bearers	of	the	Committee	within	seven	days	from	the	appointment	of	such	
new	office	bearers;	
		(m)	to	specify	the	procedure	for	election,	removal,	qualification,	composition,	term	and	the	responsibilities	of	the	office	
bearers of Committee and the members of the Election Committee, d ecision m aking Committee, Selection Committee, 
Seeding Committee or Ranking Committee, Technical Committees, Finance Committee and disciplinary Committee; 
		(n)		the	 names	of	the	persons	who	are	nominated	by	the	Affiliates,	Clubs	or	other	Organizations	to	cast	their	vote	at	the	
Annual	General	Meeting	shall	be	notified	to	the	National	Sports	Association	/	Federation	at	least	21	days	prior	to	the	
Annual General meeting/ Election;
  (o)  the procedure where an Annual General meeting of a National Sports Association / Federation is postponed due to a 
lack of quorum, fourteen days notice in writing shall be given to re-convene the meeting with same agenda; 
		(p)		to	make	compulsory	to	duly	keep	Books	of	Accounts	of	Member	Affiliates,	Clubs	and	other	Organizations;
  (q)  the denial of participation and voting at Annual General meeting and voting of election of the National Sports Association 
/	Federation,	if	the	Member	Affiliates,	Clubs	and	other	Organizations	fail	to	hold	Annual	General	Meeting,	proper	
election and accounts; 
  (r)  to ensure that a person shall not be appointed by a National Sports Association / Federation as a delegate or representative 
of such National Association to its respective international Federation or any other international Association unless 
such	person	is	a	citizen	of	Sri	Lanka	who	has	a	background	in	Sports	Organization;
  (s)   to stipulate the procedure for appointment of coaches, referees, umpires and judges by such Associations and management 
and supervision of such coaches, referees, umpires and judges; 
		(t)		 to	adopt	a	Code	of	Conduct	applicable	to	its	Players,	Members,	Coaches,	Referees,	Umpires	and	all	other	Officials,	in	
alignment	with	the	requirements	specified	by	their	respective	International	Federations;	
		(u)		to	 specify	the	responsibilities	of	the	Affiliates,	Clubs	and	other	Organizations	of	the	National	Sports	Association	/	
Federation; 
  (v)  to follow or abide by the World Anti-doping Agency Code and the Sri Lanka Anti-doping Code; 
  (w)  to have an Athlete Committee and to include representatives of the Athlete Committee within their governing bodies 
in	alignment	with	the	constitution	of	the	International	Sporting	Organizations.		
  (x)   to specify that Annual General meeting or Special General meeting or Extraordinary General meeting shall be conducted 
under the provisions of the respective Constitutions of each and every National Sports Association / Federation.
(y)	 	to	specify	that,	in	the	event	of	a	discrepancy	between	the	provisions	of	the	International	Sporting	Organization	and	
the laws of Sri Lanka, the laws of Sri Lanka shall prevail.
(z)	 	to	specify	that	efforts	should	be	made	to	establish	Divisional	Sports	Clubs,	District	Sports	Associations	and	Provincial	
Sports Associations in order to promote sports in every Grama Niladhari division in Sri Lanka. it is the responsibility 
of	such	Association	of	sports	to	give	all	sports-loving	citizens	the	humane	right	to	engage	in	a	sport	of	their	choice.	
EOG 05-0020
PrinTed a T THe deP ar TMenT oF GoVernMenT PrinTinG,  Sri LanKa.