

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'21
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –21.10.2016
1527
wxl 1"990 - 2016 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'10'21
No. 1990 -  FRIDAY , OCTOBER 21,  2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices for
publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from
the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th November, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th October, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall  be
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GANGANI LIYANAGE,
Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
15th September,  2016.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Council Notifications ... 1528
By-Laws ... —
Posts - V acant ...     —
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1527
Note.— (i) Appropriation (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 15, 2016.
(ii) Engineering Council, Sri Lanka Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 29, 2016.
(iii)Sri Lanka Sustainable Development Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 12, 2016.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –21.10.2016
1528
Provincial Council Notifications
Long Title
Short Title &
Date
of Operation.
Objective
of the
Statute.
 NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Statute  on the Department of Rural Development No. .................. of 2015 of the
Provincial Council in the North Western Province
I do hereby notify that the Statute on the Department of Rural Development No. ............of 2015 of the
Provincial Council in the North Western Province published below will be tabled at the North Western
Provincial Council after the lapse of thirty days from today. In case of any issue to be furnished regarding
the provisions of this statute such issues should be furnished to me before the aforesaid date.
G
UNADASA  D EHIGAMA ,
Provincial Minister of Roads, Transport,
Co-operative Development and Trade Housing,
Industrial and Rural Development.
(North Western Province)
Ministry of Roads, Transport,
Co-operative Development and Trade Housing,
Industrial and Rural Development,
North Western Province,
North Western Provincial Complex,
Ground Floor- Kurunegala.
30th August, 2016.
Rural Development Statute  No. ................. of 2015 North  Western Provincial Council of the
North Western Province
A statute for making provisions to create a self-strengthened rural community in the North Western
Province, to transform the village into a flourishing livelihood center, and for establishment of a
Department of Rural Development in the North Western Province and establishment, registration and
maintenance of Rural Development Societies, Women Rural Development Societies, Divisional Board
of Authority, District Board of Authority and Provincial Board of Authority and to make provisions for
incidental matters thereto.
Be it hereby enacted by the North Western Provincial Council in terms of the provisions of Section 10
of 1st index of 9th schedule by virtue of powers vested in the Provincial Council under Section 154g (1)
of 13th amendment of constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(1) This enactment is cited as Rural Development Statute No. .......... of 2015 of the North Western
Provincial Council and shall come into operation from the date of approval by the Hon. Governor
of the North Western Province.
(2) The objectives of this statute are as follows :
(1) Economic, social, cultural and spiritual development of the people of the North Western
Province through making provisions for planning, implementation, maintaining and
supervision of programs with in order to transform the village into a prosperous livelihood
center.
(2) Establishment of Department of Rural Development in the North Western Province.
MINISTRY  OF  ROAD, TRANSPORT, CO-OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT AND TRADE,
HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION, INDUSTRIAL  AND RURAL  DEVELOPMENT
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE
My No.: NWP/MORD/RD/1/16/07/Statute 2015

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'21
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –21.10.2016
1529
(3) Making provisions for establishment, registration, supervision, execution, auditing,
amalgamation, dissolution and liquidation of Rural Development Societies, Women Rural
Development Societies, Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority, Rural
Development District Boards of Authority, Rural Development Provincial Boards of
Authority.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF P ROVINCIAL D EPARTMENT OF R URAL D EVELOPMENT AND STRUCTURE, POWERS
AND DUTIES OF THE D EPARTMENT
(3) A Department cited as the Department of Rural Development for the North Western
Province (hereinafter know as the Department) shall be established in order to accomplish
the objectives of this statute.
(4) This Department shall be an incorporated institute with a continual existence possessing a
common seal and it has powers to perform all the activities relating to the subject of rural
development, to file and caused to be filed law suits by the name of Department of rural
Development and to give explanations in respect of other legal matters.
(5) This Department shall consist of a Provincial Director, Assistant Provincial Director, Two
District Officers, Rural Development Officers, Development officers and an assistant
staff.
(6) A class one officer of Sri Lanka Administrative Service shall be appointed as the Director
of Rural Development on the North Western Province for executing powers and duties
entrusted to the Department by the Hon. Governor of North Western Province by inquiring
the Minister in charge of the subject.
  (7) (1) The powers of executing orders and provisions enacted in this statute or incidental
matters thereto shall be entrusted on the Director.
(2) The Director may delegate his powers to other officers in the Department as the
case may be.
(8) All the officers appointed for the purpose of this statue shall be deemed as  public
employees in terms of the definition made under Penal Code.
  (9) The functions of the Department of Rural Development in the North Western Province
shall be as follows:–
(1) Organizing people in order to uplift by self-strength.
(2) Planning, implementation, following up and supervision of program for rural
development in the province.
(3) Improving knowledge, skills and attitudes of the people for Rural Development affairs
and planning and implementation of projects and training programs.
(4) Establishment, registration, supervision, functioning, auditing, joining, dissolution
and liquidation of Rural Development Societies, Women Rural Development
Societies, Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority, Rural Development
District Boards of Authority, Rural Development Provincial Boards of Authority.
Establishment of
the Department
The Department
is a lawful
institute
Appointment of
Officers
Appointment of
Director
Powers of
Provincial
Director
Public Officers
Functions of the
Department

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –21.10.2016
1530
  (10) Powers of the Department of Rural Development :
(1) Supervision of functioning of Rural Development Societies, Women rural Development
Societies, Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority, Rural Development
District Board of Authority, Rural Development Provincial Boards of Authority, checking
accounts, carrying out investigations thereof and checking required documents and
obtaining information for that purpose may be executed by Director of Rural
Development and an officer authorized by the Director of Rural Development.
PART II
E
STABLISHMENT, R EGISTRATION, S UPERVISION, F UNCTIONING, AUDITING, J OINING, D ISSOLUTION AND
LIQUIDA TION OF R URAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIETIES, WOMEN RURAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIETIES , R URAL
DEVELOPMENT DIVISIONAL BOARDS OF AUTHORITY, RURAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT BOARDS OF AUTHORITY,
RURAL D EVELOPMENT P ROVINCIAL B OARDS OF AUTHORITY
(11) In order to improve economic, social and cultural development of the community in the North
Western Province, in every village or Grama Niladhari Division a Rural Development Society
or Women Rural Development Society or Both societies may be established and in a Women
Rural Development society, only women shall hold membership. Every such society shall be
registered under the Department.
(12) W omen Rural Development societies in the North Western Province those already initiated
when this statute came in to operation shall be registered in the manner stipulated in the orders
enacted by the Minister in charge of the subject.
(13) (1) Rural Development Societies, Women Rural Development Societies those not meet the
standards stipulated in the orders enacted under section 12 of this statute shall not be qualified
for registration.
(2) Such disqualification for registration should be informed to the applicant concerned.
(14) The area of authority of a society shall not be larger than a Grama Niladhari Division and not
smaller than a village. Provided that, several societies may be established in one village in respect
of a Gam Godella, tract or an estate unit which has a distinctive economic, social and geographical
identity in the same village.
(15) Provided that, only one category of society may be established in each area of authority of
society.
(16) The functions of rural Development societies are as follows :
(1) Regular implementation of development programs required to create a better society by
improving economic, and social status of the community living in the area of authority of
North Western provincial council through Women Rural Development Societies.
(2) Implementation of religious programs, enhancing literature affairs, improving sports
activities and conducting shramadana campaigns for creating morality and collaboration
of the members and community living in the area of authority.
(3) Implementation of awareness programs and training programs in order to enhance the
knowledge, attitude and skills of village community by prioritizing human resource
development.
(17) In case women Rural Development society is not qualified for registration in terms of Section
12 the registration shall be rejected and such rejection of registration shall be informed in
writing by the Director of Rural Development.
Establishment of
Rural
Development
Societies
Registration of
Societies
Disqualification
for registration
Area of
authority of the
Society
Limitation of the
area of authority
for only one
society
Functions of a
Rural
Development
Society
Rejection of
registration
Powers of the
Department

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'21
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –21.10.2016
1531
(18) Registration of Rural Development societies and Women Rural Development Societies those
executed contrary to the provinsions of this statute, not comply with the terms and standards of
the orders and remain defunct shall be cancelled.
(19) All the properties of society where the registration is so cancelled shall be entrusted to the
Ministry of Rural Development. The secretary to the Ministry shall make necessary provisions
to authorize an officer to take over and protect such property on behalf of the Ministry.
(20) Appeals made in respect of cancellation or rejection of registration in terms of section 12 and
section 13 of this statute shall be submitted to the secretary to the Ministry of Rural Development
within 90 days from the date of receipt of the letter of rejection of cancellation of registration.The
decision of the  Minister in charge of the subject in regard to appeals shall be final and conclusive.
(21) In case where there are several societies of the same category in one area of authority such
societies may be joined / funds of the societies shall be credited to one common  account.
(22) In case a Rural development society, a women rural Development society is established contrary
to the limits of the area of authority of society such societies could be disjointed on a decision
made by the Director.The  properties of such societies shall be divided as the manner decided by
the Director by inquiring the General Council.
(23) Rural Development Societies, and women Rural Development societies registered under section
12 of this statute shall be executed under a common constitution as stipulated in the orders
made by the Minister in charge of the subject under this section.
(24) (1) a fund shall be established for each Rural Development Society,a Women Rural
Development Society registered under Section 12.
(2) Provisions for management of funds shall be made by the Minister in charge of the subject
by means of the orders enacted under section 23.
(25) In case defunct Rural Development societies and Women Rural Development Societies are
incapable to be reorganized such societies shall be dissolved.The funds of the societies shall be
credited to a liquidation account which is in charge of the Director.
PART III
REGISTRA TION AND MAINTENANCE OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT DIVISIONAL BOARDS OF AUTHORITY,
DISTRICT BOARDS OF AUTHORITY, PROVINCIAL BOARDS OF AUTHORITY
(26) A  rural Development Divisional Board of Authority shall be established in every Divisional
Secretariat Division and such board of Authority shall consist of Chairmen, secretaries and
Treasurers of Rural Development Societies Women rural Development Societies established
within the Divisional Secretariat Division.
(27) the chairman, secretary and treasurer of the Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority
shall be appointed from among the chairmen, secretaries, and treasurers of Rural Development
Societies and Women Rural Development Societies and  the Rural Development officer of the
Division shall be ex - officio appointed as the instructor  of the divisional Board of Authority.
The Divisional Secretary of Division shall be ex - officio appointed as the advisor of the
Divisional Board of Authority.
Cancellation of
registration.
Property of
Societies
cancelled.
Powers of
appeals.
Joining societies.
Disjoining of
Societies.
Society
constitution.
Society Funds.
Dissolution of
societies.
Establishment of
Divisional
Boards of
Authority.
Structure of the
Rural
Development
Divisional Board
of Authority.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –21.10.2016
1532
(28) functions of the Divisional Boards of Authority
(1) Guiding to achieve objectives of Rural Development Societies through preparing
programs for the enhancing Rural Development Societies and Women Rural
Development Societies.
(2) Coordinating Rural Development District Boards of Authority and Provincial Boards
of Authority.
(3) Assisting to prepare a joint Rural Development Plan for the Divisional Secretariat
Division in terms of the instructions given by the Director.
(4) Building better connection among Rural Development Societies and Women Rural
Development Societies and preparing programs for increasing society funds.
(5) Achieving a preceding mission of empowering the community of the area of
authority for development process.
(29) District Boards of Authority are established through the representation of chairmen,
secretaries and treasurers of Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority.
(30) Chairman, secretary and treasurer of the District Board of Authority shall be appointed
from among the members of the Divisional Boards of Authority and District Rural
Development officer shall be the ex-officio appointed as the instructor. The Provincial
Director of Rural Development shall be ex officio appointed as the Advisor.
(31) functions of the  District Board of Authority.
(1) Assisting, advising and guiding for the improvement of Rural Development Societies
in the District.
(2) Contribute in formulating the District Rural Development plan with the association of
plans of Divisional Rural Development Boards of Authority.
(3) Formulating District Development plan and providing necessary assistance to
implement the plan with the collaboration of other organizations of the District.
(4) Representing provincial Boards of Authority.
(32) Provincial Boards of Authority is established with the amalgamation of two District Rural
Development Boards of Authority.
(1) The Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer of the Provincial Board of Authority shall be
elected Form among the members of District Board of Authority and the Director of
Rural Development shall be ex-officio appointed as the Instructor and the Secretary
to the Ministry of Rural Development shall be the Advisor.
(2) Functions of Provincial Boards of Authority
(a) Providing the necessary assistance for the implementation of Provincial Rural
Development Plan.
(b) Identifying special projects required in Rural Development, assisting to planning
and implementation.
(c) Providing assistance for Rural Development training activities and research
activities of the province.
Functions of
Rural
Development
Divisional
Boards of
Authority.
Establishment of
District Boards
of  Authority.
Structure of the
Rural
Development
Disrict Board of
Authority.
Establishment of
Provincial Rural
Development
Board of
Authority.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'21
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –21.10.2016
1533
(33) Every Board of Authority established under Sections 26, 29 and 32 shall be registered by
the Provincial Director of Rural Development.
(34) Appeals relating to registration and cancellation of registration of Boards of authority shall
be submitted to the Secretary to the Ministry of Rural Development within 90 days and
the decision of the Minister of Rural Development shall be final and conclusive.
(35) Boards of Authority registered under Section 33 of this Statute shall be registered under a
common constitution as set out in the orders.
(36) Every Board of Authority registered shall be able to establish a fund to achieve their
objectives.
(37) This fund shall be audited by an officer of the Department of Rural Development.
Functions of the
Provincial Rural
Development
Board of
Authority.
Cancellation of
registration of
Boards of
Authority
Constitution of
Boards of
Authority
Funds of Boards
of Authority
Auditing funds
PART IV
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
(38) Any person ,
(1) Who makes a false or incorrect statement deliberately in respect of any report or a
document upon a term, or order made or provided for the purpose of this statute or under
this statute,
(2) Who default or reject certain information or any report stipulated by this statute,
(3) Who default orders, notifications, without reasonable grounds,
(4) Who interrupt a person authorized in executing or performing any duty or action delegated
under this statute or under an order made under this statute,
(5) Shall be a guilty of an offence under this statute who violates and who defaults and/or
interrupts execution of any order and provision deliberately of this statute or orders
made under this statute.
(39) In case an offense is made the Director of Rural Development or an officer authorized by the
Director of Rural Development shall have the power to file law suits under this statute.
(40) Every person who commits offense shall convicted at summery inquiry before a Magistrate
shall be liable to a fine of a minimum of Ten Thousand Rupees (Rs. 10,000) and not exceeding
One Lakhs (Rs. 100,000) or imprisonment of either description for a period of not exceeding
six (06) months  or to such fine and imprisonment both.
Every person who commits an offence shall convicted at summery inquiry before a Magistrate
shall be liable to a fine of a  Five Thousand Rupees (Rs. 5,000) and imprisonment of for a period
of not exceeding six (06) months and to such fine and imprisonment both.
Power of filling
law suits
Offence

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –21.10.2016
1534
PART V
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(41) The Minister has power to enact orders in respect of matters of this statute
(42) In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhalese and Tamil text of the statute the Sinhalese
text shall prevail
(43) In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires
“Provincial Council” means the North Western Provincial Council
“Minister in Charge of the Subject” Miniser in charge of the subject of Rural Development
“Secretary” means the Secretary to the Minister in charge of the subject of Rural Development
of the North Western Provincial Council.
“Provincial Department of Rural Development” is the Department established for the subject
of Rural Development.
“Director” means  the Provincial Director of the Department of Rural Development of the
North Western Provincial Council,
“Officer” means the Rural Development Officers, Development Officers (Rural Development),
Sewing instructors, and other officers of the North Western Provincial Council
“Rural Development Societies” means Rural Development Societies and Rural Development
Women Societies,
“Area of Authtoriy of a Society” shall not be larger than a Grama Niladhari Division.
“Divisional Boards of Authority” means Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority
registered one for each Divisional Secretariat Division in the North Western Province.
“District Boards of Authority” means District Rural Boards of Authority registered each for
the two District of Kurunegala and Puttlam  in the North Western Province.
“ Provincial Boards of Authority” means North Western Provincial Rural Development Board
of Authority registered for the North Western Province.
“Member” means in case Rural Development Society members of the area of authority of the
society and in case Divisional Boards of Rural Development members representing Rural
Development Societies in case District Boards of Rural Development members
representing Divisional Boards of Rural Development and in case Provincial Boards of
Rural Development members representing District Boards of Rural Development.
“Constitution” means constitutions approved at Rural Development Societies, Rural
Development Women Societies and at Rural Development Boards of authority established
under this statute.
“Orders” means orders made under the provisions of this statute.
10-481
Enacting orders
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.