

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by  Hon. Malith Jayathilake, M.P.  on 08th February, 2017
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 163]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on December 19, 2016)
POLONNARUWA BUDDHIST SOCIETY
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society

<!-- page 2 -->

Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 005026—225 (02/2017)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE POLONNARUWA BUDDHIST SOCIETY
WHEREAS an Society called and known as the “Polonnaruwa
Buddhist Society” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and
transacting all matters connected  with the said Society
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted several objects and matters for
which it was established, and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant the said
application:
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Polonnaruwa Buddhist
Society  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the
“Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate, with
perpetual succession under the name and style of  the
“Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society” (hereinafter referred to as
the  “Corporation”)  and by that name may sue and be sued, with
full power and authority to have and  use a common seal and  to
alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to establish an strong social organization which could
volunteer to the wider socio welfare activities with
the view of upholding Buddhist renaissance in the
district upon the advice and right leadership of Maha
Sanga towards bringing up a just religious society;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Polonnaruwa
Buddhist
Society.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to provide pilgrim rest house facilities to the local
and foreigners who visit to worship and witness the
historical monuments of Polonnaruwa everyday;
(c) to provide goods and monitory support with the view
of developing those undeveloped Viharas, Temples
and Dhaham schools in the district ;
(d) to pioneer to promote mutual support and
understandings among all the communities and
religions;
(e) to help the lower income families in the District in
order to uplift their economic situation;
(f) to assist in all possible way to those who suffer
economic hardship unable to get treatment for severe
diseases who resides permanently in the District;
(g) to provide relief assistance to those affected by natural
disasters, cyclone, flood, droughts, Tsunami and those
who suffered loses by any battle in any part of Sri
Lanka; and act to minimize any such damages;
(h) to publish electronic and print publications in order
to establish a healthy society; and take action to hold
medical camps in the District;
(i) to grant scholarships, books and school stationeries
to the needy school students as well as university
students of low income; to conduct educational
seminars and to assist the students to develop their
various talents in the Disrict;
(j) to establish a just society througn organizing,
directing and practicing the sill campaign, meditation
programmes and Bodhi Poojas in the District;

<!-- page 4 -->

Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(k) to act delicately in order to bring up an alcohol free
just society by eradicating liquor and tobacco which
has become a menace to the Corporation in the
District;
(l) to implement above objectives in the other District
of the country with the approval of the Board of
Management; and
(m) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts and matters  as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold,
take or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property
and construct, maintain and alter any buildings or
works necessary or convenient for the business of
the Corporation ;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security ;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in scuh manner as
the Board of Management may determine ;
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any
person or body of persons incorporated in Sri
Lanka or with any Government Department,
Corporation, Board, Provincial Council or Local
Authority for the achievement of the objects of
the Corporation ;
(f) to determine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership;
and
(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other  provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered  by a  Board of
Management consisting of Seven Members including the
Chairman, Deputy Chairman, the Secretary,  Treasurer and
another Chief Organizer  elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The Board of Management of the Corporation subject
to the sub paragraph (1) above, shall consist of the members
of the Board of Management of the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
(3) A member of the Board of Management of this
Corporation incorporated by this Act, shall unless he vacates
his office earlier by death or resignation, hold office for a
period of four years. Where due to death or resignation a
vacancy occurs in the Board of Management a new member
shall be appointed to fill such vacancy and such a new member
shall hold office for a lapsed period by the successive member.
30
Management
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society
(Incorporation)
5
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by  the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act, or any
other written law, for  the admission, withdrawal or expulsion
of members, the election of the Board of Management, for
the conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in lile manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Board shall cause to be maintained a register
in which every person who on the date of commencement of
this Act, is a member of the Corporation and every person
thereafter duly admitted as member of the Corporation shall
have inscribed in such register his name.
(2) The register shall contain the following particulars:-
(a) name, address and occuption of the each
member of the Corporation;
(b) the date on which the name of the member was
inscribed in the register; and
(c) the date on which any person ceased to be a
member.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
Register of
members.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society
(Incorporation)
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
with the approval of the Board of Management, all such
sums of money as may be required to defray any expenditure
incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the objects of
the Corporation.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as setforth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
9. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by  the Council of that
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of that
institute.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
5
10
15
Seal of the
Corporation.
20
25
30
Accounts and
Audit of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society
(Incorporation)
7
Chairman and the Secretary who shall sign their names and
the number of Identity Card on the instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
11. All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Society on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
with the approval of the Board of Management, to take and
hold any property, movable or immovable, which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is, or are, by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30 Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
35

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Polonnaruwa Buddhist Society
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .