

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
   P age
Government Notifications … … 2008
Price Control Orders … … —
Central Bank of Sri Lanka Notices… … —
Accounts of the Government of Sri Lanka … — 
Revenue and Expenditure Returns… … —
Miscellaneous Departmental Notices … —
Notice to Mariners … … —
Excise Ordinance, Notices … … — 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"400 – 2024 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'08'30
No. 2,400 – fRiDAy, AuGuSt  30, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE ”
AttENtiON  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th September, 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th September, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.
 Gangani Liyanage, 
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08, 
01st January, 2024.
  This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
    Page
Proclamations, &c., by the President … —
Appointments, &c., by the President … —
Appointments, &c., by the Cabinet of Ministers   … —
Appointments, &c., by the Public Service Commission —
Appointments, &c., by the Judicial Service Commission —
Other Appointments, &c.          … … —
Appointments, &c., of  Registrars … —
2007 - B 82604 - 403 (08/2024)
N. B. -   Parts ii and iV(A) of the Gazette No. 2399 of 23.08.2024 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (I) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
2008
Government Notifications
DIvISIONAL    SECRETARIAT  - hAmbANTOTA
binara  maha Perahera  Orders of Galvila Purana Rajamaha v iharaya
i, G. C. R. Wijewardhana, Divisional Secretary Hambantota hereby adjucate the time of regulation under the pilgrimages 
ordinance as Binara Maha Perahera festival orders of Galvila Purana Rajamaha Viharaya. Which belongs to No. 121 Pahala 
Beragama Gramaniladhari Division at Divisional Secretary Division Hambantota Magampattu of Hambantota District.
Binara Maha Perahera festival 2024, will be held from 16.09.2024 to 28.09.2024.
 G. C. R. Wijewardhana,
 Divisional Secretary,
 Hambantota.
08-232
mINISTR y Of CIvIL   A vIATION  
Civil  Aviation  Authority  of  Sri Lanka
Notice by the Director General of Civil Aviation under the Air Navigation Regulation 196 of 1955
MEMBERS  of the public are hereby notified that this office has received on 03rd July, 2024 an application dated 02nd 
July, 2024 from Aura Airlines (Pvt) Ltd, Colombo international Airport, Ratmalana seeking an Air Operator Certificate and 
Airline Licence to engage in Private Operations, Arieal work and Domestic Charter Operations carrying Passengers and 
Cargo in compliance with Civil Aviation Act (Act, No. 14 of 2010) and Regulations made thereunder. Business name of the 
company is Aura Airlines (Pvt) Ltd with the trade name as “Aura Airlines”. the Directors of the Aura Airlines (Pvt) Ltd are 
as follows.
Mr. t. A. C. V . thambugala
Ms. S. M. Chandani
Aura Airlines (Pvt) Ltd has nominated Mr. M. K. isuru Arjitha to be the Accountable Manager in charge of the 
proposed operations.
A copy of the aforementioned application is kept at the technical Library, Ground floor, of Head Office of the Civil 
Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka, No. 152/1, Minuwangoda Road, Katunayake, for perusal of the members of the public, 
during office hours of any working days of the week.
Members of the public are hereby informed that this office would proceed with the certification process of this 
application after 09th October, 2024 as per the established procedures to examine the degree of applicant’s compliance 
with the applicable legislative provisions, Air Navigation Regulations in accordance with associated local requirements 
adopted by this office and ascertain the applicable level of compliance with the requirements for the safe, secure and efficient 
operation of proposed air services, prior to granting the requisite Air Operator Certificate and other relevant approvals for 
the commencement of proposed operations.
Any person may, not less than 10 days before the aforementioned date in the penultimate paragraph, make 
representations to me in writing, setting out the specific grounds on which such representations are made in respect of 
this application, in accordance with the Air Navigation Regulations 197 of 1955. Such representations shall accompany 
written evidence as to the truth of any statement contained therein. A copy of every such representation shall be sent to 
the applicant, at the same time as it is sent to this office and a certificate to that effect shall be attached to the representation.
Air Vice Marshal Sagara Kotakadeniya (Retd),
Director General of Civil Aviation & Chief Executive Officer.
Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka,
No. 152/1, Minuwangoda Road,
Katunayake,
30th August, 2024.
08-239
PRiNtED   At  tHE  DEPARtMENt  Of  GOVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG , SRi  LANKA .