

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SHANTHA CHILDREN'S EDUCATION
SERVICES FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
ACT, N O . 19 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 20th June, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.25 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

1Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Shantha
Children's
Education
Services
Foundation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.
[Certified on 20th June, 2007]
L.D.—O. (INC) 19/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  SHANTHA  CHILDREN 'S EDUCATION
SERVICES   FOUNDA TION
WHEREAS A Foundation called and known as the Shantha
Children's Education Services Foundation has heretofore been
established for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all matters connected with the said  Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND  WHEREAS the  said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established and  applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows  :—
1. This  Act may be cited as the Shantha Children's
Education Services  Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 19
of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members  of the Shantha
Children's Education Services  Foundation (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”), and shall hereafter  be
admitted members of the Corporation hereby constituted
shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession under
the name and style of the “Shantha Children's Education
Services Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued with
full power and authority to have and use a  common Seal and
to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
established are hereby declared to be —
(a) to establish pre-schools with a view to familiarize the
children with school environment ;

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007
(b) to grant scholarships to poor students of rural and
urban areas  ;
(c) to establish children's parks to ensure the physical
and mental growth of children ;
(d) to provide common amenities and educational
equipment to under equipped schools  situated in
remote areas ;
(e) to provide medical facilities through  medical clinics
to children living in the areas where there are poor
medical facilities :
Provided however provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and
(d) shall be given effect to only subject to the supervision of
the Provincial Director of Education, Divisional Director of
Education, Regional Director of Education and the Chairman
of the local authority or any officer authorized by him in
writing.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any  other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to—
(a) receive or collect grants, gifts or donations from local
or foreign sources ;
(b) acquire and hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge or sell or otherwise dispose of any
movable or immovable property ;
(c) give grants, endowments or loans for the furtherance
of the objects of the Corporation ;
(d) appoint, employ, remunerate and exercise
disciplinary control over its officers and servants ;
(e)  open  and close current, savings and deposit  accounts
in any bank or banks and borrow or raise money with
or without security ;
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007
(f) invest funds  of the Corporation in such securities as
may be determined by the Committee of
Management ; and
(g) to do all such other acts and things as are incidental
or conducive to the carrying out of the  objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1)  The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appionted by the Committee of
Management.
6. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being be administered by a Committee of Management
consisting of eleven following members :—
(a) Hon.  President, Hon. Vice President, General Secretary,
Assistant  Secretary, Treasurer; and
(b) six other members elected in accordance with the rules
in force for the time being of the Corporation.
(2) The first Committee of Management of the
Corporation shall consist of the members of the Committee
of Management of the Foundation holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any General Meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law for the following matters :—
(a) the admission to and withdrawal or expulsion of
membership and the membership fees payable ;
Audit and
Accounts.
Management of
the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007
(b) the election of members of the Committee of
Management and their powers and duties ;
(c) the duties and functions of the officers and servants
of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be followed in the summoning
and holding of meetings of  the Committee of
Management and the quorum and the conduct of
business thereat.
(2) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules for the time being in force of the  Corporation.
8. If upon dissolution of the Corporation there remains
any property after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities, such property shall not be distributed among the
members of the Corporation, but shall be given or transferred
to some other institution or institutions having objects similar
to those of the Corporation, and which is or are by is rules
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act,  shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundationas on such day shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold property both movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary dispositon or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation, shall have full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
Transfer of
remaining
property after
dissolution.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Shantha Children's Education Services Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 2007
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Committee of Management and not to be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
President  and  two other members of the Committee of
Management and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the  Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  AVENUE , COLOMBO  05  before  15th  December
  each year in respect of the year following.