

<!-- page 1 -->

MARKEZ  ISLAMIC  CENTRE  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.  19  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 6th July, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 9, 1999
Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
   PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)
Act, No. 19 of 1999
1
[Certified on 06th July, 1999]
L.D.–O.22/98.
A N   ACT  TO   INCORPORA TE   THE   MARKEZ  ISLAMIC  CENTRE
WHEREAS an Association Called and Known as the Markez
Islamic Centre has heretofore been established in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters connected with the said Association,
according to the rules agreed to by its members ;
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application ;
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1. This Act  may be cited as the Markez Islamic Centre
(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Markez
Islamic Centre” (hereinafter referred to as the “Centre”) and
such persons as shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the “Markez Islamic
Centre” and by that name may sue, and be sued, in all courts
with full power and authority to have and to use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be –
(a) to encourage the observance of Islam ;
(b) to promote, foster and encourage research into, and
the study of, the Arabic language, literature and Islamic
religion, history and culture, in all their aspects ;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Markez
Islamic Centre.
H - 022545
General objects
of the
Corporation

<!-- page 3 -->

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)
Act, No. 19 of 1999
2
General Powers of
the Corporation.
(c) to promote, research on Islam in the Tamil, Sinhala,
Arabic and English languages ;
(d) to promote Islamic culture and morality ;
(e) to facilitate the study of Islam and the Islamic way of
life ;
(f)to establish and maintain friendly relations with other
Islamic organisations engaged in similar pursuits, in
and outside Sri Lanka ;
(g) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,
magazines and pamphlets on Islam ;
(h) to provide educational material in Sinhala on Islam, for
Muslim students studying in the Sinhala medium ;
(i) to administer, maintain and develop, the Markez Islamic
Centre ;
(j)to maintain the buildings of the Markez Islamic Centre
and to construct if necessary, new buildings for the
purpose of conducting classes, seminars and
discourses in Islam ;
(k) to maintain the library and the lecture halls in the
Markez Islamic Centre and to establish new lecture
halls libraries to promote the study of Islam ;
(l) to receive funds for the attainment of the aims and
objects of the Corporation ;
(m) to promote educational and cultural activities ;
(n) to promote social and economic welfare activities.
4. Subject to the provisions of the Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things as
are necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including

<!-- page 4 -->

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)
Act, No. 19 of 1999
3
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and to hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may  become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of this Act
and subject to the rules of the Corporation, with full power to
sell, lease, rent, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
6. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules of the Corporation, be administered by a Committee of
Management.
(2) The first Committee of Management of the
Corporation shall be the Committee of Management of the
Markez Islamic Centre holding office on the day preceding
the date of the commencement of this Act, and whose names
appear in the Schedule to this Act.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on the day
preceding the date commencement of this Act shall be paid
by the Corporation here by constituted and all debts due to,
and subscriptions and contributions payable to the Centre on
that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper books of
accounts to be kept with respect to –
(a) all sums of money received or expended by the
Corporation ; and
(b) the assets and liabilities of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation and the balance
sheet shall be audited at least once a year by any qualified
auditor or auditors appointed for the purpose by the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Centre.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 5 -->

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)
Act, No. 19 of 1999
4
Powers of the
Corporation to
acquire property,
invest funds, raise
loans &c.
(3) The Accounts of the Corporation and the balance
sheet shall be open to the inspection of the members of the
Corporation at all reasonable times.
9. The moneys and property of the Corporation howsoever
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects as set forth herein, and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of dividend,
loan, bonus or otherwise, howsoever, by way of profit, to  the
members of the Corporation :
Provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall
not prohibit–
(a) the payment in good faith, of reasonable and proper
remuneration to any officer or servant of the corporation
or to any member of the Corporation for any services
rendered by him to the Corporation ;
(b) the re-imbursement or repayment of reasonable and
proper expenses incurred, with the prior written approval
of the Committee of Management, by any member, officer
or servant of the Corporation, in the discharge or
performance of his functions or duties or in promoting
the objects of the Corporation.
10. It shall be lawful for the Corporation–
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwise obtain,
lands or buildings which may be required for the purpose
of the Corporation and which may lawfully be acquired
for those purposes and to deal with or dispose of, the
same, as it may deem expedient, with a view to promoting
the objects of the Corporation ;
(b) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation, in such manner as the
Committee of Management may think fit from time to
time and to vary and transfer any such investments ;
(c) to secure the discharge of any debt, or obligation of the
Corporation in such manner as it may think fit ;
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 6 -->

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)
Act, No. 19 of 1999
5
(d) to receive subscriptions, grants, donations and gifts of
all kinds, locally and from aborad, for the purposes of
the Corporation ;
(e) to construct, alter or maintain, any buildings required
for the purposes of the Corporation ;
(f)to appoint, dismiss or terminate officers and servants of
the Corporation, and to pay them such salaries,
pensions, gratuities and allowances as may from time to
time be determined by the Committee of Management ;
(g) to establish or contribute to any fund or scheme for the
grant of gratuities, pensions, allowances or other benefits
to officers or servants, past or present, of the Corporation
or to the relatives or dependants of such officers and
servants ;
(h) to enter into any contract with any person, company,
society or body of persons, whether corporate or
unincorporate, for promoting the objects of the
Corporation ;
(i) to give grants, endowments or scholarships for the
purposes of the Corporation ; and
(j)subject to the provisions of any other written law to do
all other things necessary or expedient for the proper
and effective carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two members
of the Committee of Management of the Corporation who
shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any persons as a witness.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Markez Islamic Centre (Incorporation)
Act, No. 19 of 1999
6
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or corporate,
or of any other persons except such as are mentioned in this
Act, and those claiming by, from, or under, them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
SCHEDULE            (Section 6)
Committee of Management
1. Mr. Abdul Raheem Marikar Mohamed Najibdeen
2. Mr. Mohamed Saleem Mohamed Farook
3. Mr. Abdul Rahman Lebbe Mahmood Lebbe
4. Mr. Abdul Jabbar Mohammed Jabir
5. Mr. Abdul Wadood Mohamed Farook
6. Mr. Mohamed Hussain Mohamed Fuard
7. Mr. Shahul Hameed Seyed Mohamed Omer
8. Mr. Mohideen Mohamed Anser.
Savings of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail
in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.