

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'11'24
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.11.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2255$24 - 2021 fkdjeïn¾ ui 24 jeks nodod - 2021'11'24
No.  2255/24  -  WedNesdAY,    November  24,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
GuIDELINES  RELATING  TO  ThE  APPOINTmENT  Of  PRESIDENT’S  COuNSEL
Ps No: Ps/CsA/00/2/48 
The following guidelines approved by His ExcEllEncy tHE PrEsidEnt in relation to the appointment of President’s Counsel 
in the exercise of the powers vested in him under article 33(e) of the Constitution of democratic socialist republic of sri 
Lanka are hereby published.
        by order of his excellency,
 P.B. Jayasundera,
 secretary to the President.
The Presidential secretariat,
Colombo 01,
November 22, 2021.
1A-  G 35292  — 20  (11/2021)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'11'24
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.11.2021
2A
Guidelines on the appointment of President’s Counsel
01. These Guidelines shall be called the Guidelines on the appointment of President’s Counsel.
02. No person shall be appointed as a President’s Counsel, unless he /she:
I. Is an Attorney-at-Law of the supreme Court of sri Lanka;
II. has reached eminence in the legal profession and maintained high standard of conduct and professional 
rectitude;
III. has :-
a) actively contributed by advocacy in any Courts of sri Lanka; or
b) made an active contribution by way of advocacy to  the development of the law; or
c)	 made	 a	significant	and	an	outstanding		contribution	as	a	subject	specialist	in	law	at	senior	level,	either	in	
the public sector or in an internationally recognized institution either in sri Lanka or abroad and brought 
repute or honour to sri Lanka.
Iv. has at all times been of good character and repute.
v. h as not acted in violation of the Constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka;
vI. h as not been engaged in any act or deed that has undermined or compromised the rule of Law or the Independence 
of the Judiciary;
VII.	 Has	not	at	any	time	been	subject	to	any	disciplinary	order	made	against	him/her	by	the	Supreme	Court	or	the	
bar Association of sri Lanka and/or has not been found to be liable for professional misconduct or misdeed by 
a	Court	of	competent	jurisdiction,	is	not	bankrupt,	has	not	been	convicted	of	the	offence	of	Contempt	of	Court	
or has not been found  guilty by a competent Court either in or outside sri Lanka, save and except any minor 
offence	such	as	an	offence	under	the	Motor	Traffic	Act;
VIII.	Has	been	registered	with	the	Department	of	Inland	Revenue	as	a	tax	payer	for	a	minimum	period	of	five	years,	
prior to the submission by him/her of the application seeking appointment as a President’s Counsel.  
03. have authored books or publications on law and/or the legal system, having presented papers at international or national 
legal forums, having done further studies in law in national or international institutions of repute, having achieved 
academic	qualifications,	having	lectured	on	law	in	recognized	higher	education	institutions	of	repute,	having	up-to-date	
legal	knowledge	on	new	areas	of	law,	and	/or	having	trained	several	juniors	who	are	contributing	to	the	profession	in	
a meaningful manner, will be considered as added merits in the process of consideration to be appointed as President’s 
Counsel,	while	continuous	engagement	as	a	Notary	Public	shall	be	considered	a	disqualification.
04. No Attorney-at-Law shall be appointed as a President’s Counsel, unless he/she counts a minimum period of twenty 
(20) years since being enrolled as an Attorney-at-Law of the supreme Court of sri Lanka. however, in exceptional 
circumstances,	any	person	who	has	completed	fifteen	(15)	years	since	enrolling	as	an	Attorney-at-Law	of	the	Supreme	
Court of sri Lanka, may also be considered eligible to apply for the appointment as a President’s Counsel, provided 
all	other	requirements	set	out	herein,	are	duly	satisfied.
05. The Appointment of President’s Counsel shall be limited to a maximum of one batch per year.
06. The number of President’s Counsel appointed per year shall not exceed ten (10). 
07. No Attorney-at-Law has a right to be appointed as a President’s Counsel.
 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'11'24
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.11.2021
3A
08.	 These	Guidelines	shall	not	be	applicable	when	appointing	State	Law	Officers	as	President’s	Counsel,	in	an	ex-officio	
capacity.
09.	 The	President	may	after	a	verification	process,	seek	views	of	the	Honourable	Chief	Justice	and	the	Honourable	Attorney-
General, with regard to those who are proposed to be appointed as President’s Counsel.
10.  Canvassing by an applicant, either directly or indirectly, in person or through a third party, will be considered a 
disqualification.
11. If any applicant by his application has furnished false information or submitted forged documents or suppressed 
information, the said application will if so facto be	rejected.
12.  The names of all President’s Counsel appointed by the President, will be published in the Government Gazette and will 
also be posted on the website of the Presidential secretariat.
13.	 Applications	for	the	appointment	of	President’s	Counsel,	is	invited	by	Notification	published	in	the	Government Gazette, 
while giving a deadline before which such applications shall be submitted. Late applications shall not be entertained.
14.  The “Guidelines on the appointment of President’s Counsel”, as set out in Gazette No. 2147/37 dated 29
th october 
2019, are hereby rescinded. 
PrintEd At tHE dEPArtMEnt OF GOVErnMEnt PrintinG,  sri lAnKA.