

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2261$55 - 2022 ckjdß ui 06 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'01'06
No.  2261/55  -   thursd AY,    JANuArY  06,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A-  G 35894 — 510 (01/2022)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.d.B 3/2013 (ii)
MERChANT ShIPPING  ACT, No. 52 Of 1971
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Ports and shipping under section 321 of the Merchant shipping Act, No. 52 of 
1971 read with section 139 of the said Act. 
Rohitha Abeygunawardena,
Minister of Ports and shipping.
Colombo,
29th december 2021.
Regulations
1. (1) t hese regulations may be cited as the Merchant shipping (Carriage of Cargoes and Oil Fuels) regulations,
No. 07 of 2021.
(2)	The	purpose	of	these	regulations	shall	be	to	give	effect	to	Chapter	VI	of	the	International	Convention	for	the
safety of Life at sea 1974, Protocol of 1988 as amended from time to time and any subsequent amendment
made to such Protocol.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
2A
PArt 1
Applicability Of These Regulations
2. (1) subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, these regulations shall apply to the ships 
which	are	entitled	to	fly	the	Sri	Lanka	flag	wherever	they	may	be	engaged	and	to	any	other	foreign	ships	while	
they are in sri Lanka waters when loaded or intended to be loaded with any cargo.
 (2) subject to the provisions in the Merchant shipping (Carriage of dangerous Goods) regulations, No. 08 of 
2021 published in the Gazette No. 2261/56 of 06.01.2022 in respect of the carriage of dangerous goods and 
marine pollutants, these regulations shall apply to the carriage of all cargoes. Where any requirement in those 
regulations regulates an aspect of carriage provided for in these regulations, those regulations shall apply to 
that extent.
3.  (1) Where the Convention or documentation referred to in the Convention requires that a particular piece of 
equipment, or type thereof shall be provided or carried in a ship, or that any particular provision shall be 
made, the director-General of Merchant shipping (in these regulations referred to as the “director-General”) 
shall permit any other piece of equipment to be provided or carried, or any other provision to be made in that 
ship,	if	he	is	satisfied	by	trials	thereof	or	otherwise	that	such	other	piece	of	equipment	or	provision	is	at	least	
as	effective	as	that	required	by	the	Convention,	or	information	referred	to	in	the	Convention.
	 (2)		For	the	purposes	of	these	regulations,	the	results	of	verification	and	tests	carried	out	by	bodies	or	laboratories	
of	other	member	States	of	the	Organization	offering	suitable	and	satisfactory	guarantees	of	technical	and	
professional competence and independence shall be accepted.
 (3)  For cargo ships of less than 500 gross tonnage, the director-General, if he considers that the sheltered nature 
and	conditions	of	voyage	do	not	require	the	application	of	any	specific	requirements	of	part	A	or	B	of	Chapter	
VI	of	the	Convention	the	Director-General	may	exempt	such	ships	from	those	requirements.	Such	ships	shall	
take	other	effective	measures	to	ensure	the	required	safety.	The	Director-General	may	on	giving	reasonable	
notice, alter or cancel such an exemption.
 (4)  An exemption granted to ships under sub-regulation (3) shall be in a form as may be determined by the 
director-General.
PART	II
Carriage of Cargoes and Oil Fuels
4. the carriage of solid bulk cargoes other than grain shall be in compliance with the relevant provisions of the 
IMSBC	Code.
5. (1) (a) the shipper shall provide the master or his representative with appropriate information on the cargo 
sufficiently	in	advance	of	loading	to	enable	the	precautions	which	may	be	necessary	for	proper	stowage	
and	safe	carriage	of	the	cargo	to	be	put	into	effect.	Such	information	shall	be	confirmed	in	writing	by	
appropriate shipping documents prior to loading the cargo on the ship.
  (b) the cargo information referred to in sub-regulation 1 (a) shall include:
 (i)  in the case of general cargo and cargo carried in cargo units, a general description of the cargo, the 
gross mass of the cargo or cargo units and any relevant special properties of the cargo;
		 (ii)		in	the	case	of	solid	bulk	cargo,	information	as	required	by	section	4	of	the	IMSBC	Code;	and	

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
3A
 (iii)  in the case of bulk cargoes which are not classified	in	accordance	with	Regulation	2	of	Chapter	VII	of	
the Convention, but have chemical properties that may create a potential hazard, information on its 
chemical properties in addition to that required by sub-regulation 1 (b) (ii) above.
 (2)  Prior to loading cargo units on board ships, the shipper shall ensure that the gross mass of such units is in 
accordance with the gross mass declared on the shipping documents.
	 (3)		In	the	case	of	cargo	carried	in	a	container,	except	for	containers	carried	on	a	chassis	or	a	trailer,	when	such	
containers	are	driven	on	or	off	a	ro-ro	ship	engaged	in	short	international	voyages	as	defined	in	Regulation	
3	of	Chapter	III	of	the	Convention,	the	gross	mass	according	to	paragraph	(1)b(i)	of	this	regulation	shall	be	
verified	by	the	shipper	in	accordance	with	the	Merchant	Shipping	(Verification	of	Container	Gross	Mass)	
regulations, 2016 published in the Gazette No. 1979/30 of August 11, 2016.
	 (4)		The	shipper	of	a	container	shall	ensure	that	the	verified	gross	mass	is	stated	in	the	shipping	document.	The	
shipping document shall be -
 (a)  signed by a person duly authorized by the shipper; and 
 (b)		submitted	 to	the	master	or	his	representative	and	to	the	terminal	representative	sufficiently	in	advance,	
as required by the master or his representative, to be used in the preparation of the ship stowage plan.
	 (5)		If	the	shipping	document	relating	to	a	packed	container	does	not	provide	the	verified	gross	mass	and	the	master	
or	his	representative	and	the	terminal	representative	have	not	obtained	the	verified	gross	mass	of	the	packed	
container, it shall not be loaded on to the ship. 
6. (1) the owner and master of every ship to which these regulations apply, other than a ship engaged in the carriage 
of grain, shall ensure that appropriate documentation relevant to the cargo and its stowage and securing, which 
should specify in particular the precautions necessary for the safe carriage of that cargo by sea, is carried on 
board.
 (2)  such documentation may consist of one or more of the following Codes of safe Practice –
  (a)  the Code of safe Practice for Cargo stowage and securing adopted by the Organization by resolution 
A.714(17), as amended time to time;
  (b)  the Code of safe Practice for ships Carrying timber deck Cargoes adopted by the Organization by 
resolution A.715(17), as amended time to time; and
  (c)  the Code of safe Practice for solid Bulk Cargoes (BC Code) adopted by the Organisation by resolution 
A.434(XI),	as	amended	time	to	time.
 (3) the owner and master of every ship carrying grain to which these regulations apply shall ensure that the 
International	Grain	Code	is	carried	on	board.
 (4)  (a)  All passenger ships and cargo ships carrying cargoes other than solid and liquid bulk cargoes and cargo 
ships	of	less	than	five	hundred	tons	engaged	on	voyages	which	are	not	international	voyages,	shall	carry	
on board a Cargo securing Manual approved by the director-General or a recognized organisation.
  (b)  the cargo securing manual referred to in sub-regulation 6(4) (a) shall be drawn up to a standard at least 
equivalent to relevant guidelines developed by the Organization.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
4A
7.  When transporting a solid bulk cargo which is	liable	to	emit	a	toxic	or	flammable	gas,	or	cause	oxygen	depletion	
in the cargo space, an appropriate instrument for measuring the concentration of gas or oxygen in the air shall 
be provided together with detailed instructions for its use. such an instrument shall be of a type approved by 
the director-General, and the crew shall be trained in its use.
8.  Appropriate precautions shall be taken in the use of pesticides in ships, in particular for the purposes of fumigation. 
such precautions may consist of one or more of the following circulars developed by the organisation -
 (a)  recommendations on the safe use of pesticides in ships (MsC/Circ.612 as amended time to time); 
 (b)  recommendations on the safe use of pesticides in ships applicable to the fumigation of cargo holds 
(MsC.1/Circ.1264, as amended time to time); and 
 (c)  recommendations on the safe use of pesticides in ships applicable to the fumigation of cargo transport 
units (MsC.1/Circ.1265, as amended time to time). 
9. the owner and master shall ensure that -
 (a)  cargo, cargo units and cargo transport units carried on or under deck shall be so loaded, stowed and secured 
as to prevent as far as is practicable, throughout the voyage, damage or hazard to the ship and the persons 
on board, and loss of cargo overboard;
 (b)  the cargo, cargo units and cargo transport units shall be so packed and secured within the unit as to prevent, 
throughout the voyage, damage or hazard to the ship and the persons on board;
 (c)  Appropriate precautions shall be taken during loading and transport of heavy cargoes or cargoes with 
abnormal physical dimensions to ensure that no structural damage to the ship occurs and to maintain 
adequate stability throughout the voyage;
 (d)  Appropriate precautions shall be taken during loading and transport of cargo units and cargo transport units 
on board ro-ro ships, especially with regard to the securing arrangements on board such ships and on the 
cargo units and cargo transport units and with regard to the strength of the securing points and lashings;
 (e)  Freight containers shall not be loaded to more than the maximum gross weight indicated on the safety 
Approval	Plate	under	the	International	Convention	for	Safe	Containers	(CSC),	as	amended;
 (f)  the cargo on board all ships to which sub-regulation 6(4)(a) is applicable is stowed and secured throughout 
any voyage in accordance with the Cargo securing Manual; and
 (g)		The	 cargo	on	board	all	ships	to	which	regulation	6(4)(a)	is	applicable	with	roll-on	or	roll-off	cargo	spaces,	
shall be stowed and secured in accordance with the Cargo securing Manual before the ship leaves a berth.
10.	The	ships	carrying	oil	or	oil	fuel,	as	defined	in	Regulation	1	of	Annex	1	of	the	International	Convention	for	the	
Prevention	of	Pollution	from	Ships,	1973,	as	modified	by	the	Protocol	of	1978	relating	thereto,	shall	be	provided	
with material safety data sheets, based on the recommendations developed by the Organization, prior to the 
loading of such oil as cargo in bulk or bunkering of oil fuel.
11. (1) the physical blending of bulk liquid cargoes during sea voyages is prohibited. the physical blending refers to 
the	process	whereby	the	ship’s	cargo	pumps	and	pipelines	are	used	to	internally	circulate	two	or	more	different	
cargoes with the intent to achieve a cargo with a new product designation. this prohibition does not preclude 
the master from undertaking cargo transfers for the safety of the ship or protection of the marine environment. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
5A
  (2)  the prohibition in sub-regulation (1) does not apply to the blending of products for use in the search and 
exploitation of seabed mineral resources on board ships used to facilitate such operations. 
  (3)  Any production process on board a ship during sea voyages is prohibited. the production processes refer to 
any deliberate operation whereby a chemical reaction between a ship’s cargo and any other substance or cargo 
takes place. 
  (4)  the prohibition in sub-regulation (3) does not apply to the production processes of cargoes for use in the 
search and exploitation of seabed mineral resources on board ships used to facilitate such operations.
PART	III
Special Provisions for Bulk Cargoes other than Grain
12. (1) Prior to loading a bulk cargo the master shall be in possession of stability information, provided pursuant to 
Regulation	5-1	of	Chapter	II-1	of	the	Convention	containing	comprehensive	information	on	the	ship’s	stability	
and on the distribution of cargo and ballast for the standard loading conditions.
 (2)  the master shall not accept for loading concentrates or other cargoes which may liquify unless –
 (a)		either	 the	moisture	content	of	the	cargo	indicated	in	the	certificate	referred	to	in	regulation	5(1)(b)	is	less	
than its transportable moisture limit; or
 (b)  if the moisture content is above that limit, appropriate safety arrangements are made to the satisfaction of 
the director-General to ensure adequate stability in the case of cargo shifting, and the ship has adequate 
structural integrity.
 (3)  Prior to loading a bulk cargo referred to in regulation 5(1)(b)(iii), appropriate special precautions for its safe 
carriage shall be taken.
 (4) the master shall not accept cargo for loading unless -
 (a)  he has in his possession the information required by sub-regulation (1),
 (b)		he	 is	satisfied	by	calculations	that	the	proposed	loading	arrangements	would	ensure	sufficient	stability	in	
accordance with the stability information provided under sub-regulation (1); and
 (c)		he	 is	satisfied	that,	in	the	case	of	a	cargo	to	which	sub-regulation	(3)	applies,	the	precautions	required	by	
that sub-regulation have been taken.
13. (1) (a)	 In	this	regulation, “terminal representative” means, a person appointed by the terminal or other facility, 
where the ship is loading or unloading, who has responsibility for operations conducted by that terminal 
or facility with regard to the particular ship.
  (b)  For the purposes of sub-regulation (3) and (5), the appropriate authority of a port in sri Lanka shall be 
the	Sri	Lanka	Ports	Authority.	If	a	terminal	in	the	port	is	not	operated	by	the	Sri	Lanka	Ports	Authority,	
then the operator of the terminal shall be the appropriate authority.
 (2)  to enable the master to prevent excessive stresses in the ship’s structure, it shall be the duty of the owner to 
ensure that the ship shall be provided with a Cargo Loading Manual, which shall be written in a language 
with	which	the	ship’s	officers	responsible	for	cargo	operations are familiar:

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
6A
  Provided however, if this language is not English, the ship shall be provided with a manual written also in the 
English language. the manual may consist of one or more booklets and shall, as a minimum, include -
 (a)		stability	data,	to	the	extent	required	by	Regulation	5-1	of	Chapter	II-1	of	the	Convention;
 (b)  ballasting and deballasting rates and capacities;
 (c)  maximum allowable load per unit surface area of the tank top plating;
 (d)  maximum allowable load per hold;
 (e)  general loading and unloading instructions with regard to the strength of the ship’s structure including 
any limitations on the most adverse operating conditions during loading, unloading, ballasting operations 
and the voyage;
 (f)  any special restrictions such as limitations on the most adverse operating conditions imposed by the 
director-General or a recognised organization, if applicable; and
 (g)  where strength calculations are required, maximum permissible forces and moments on the ship’s hull 
during loading, unloading and the voyage.
 (3)  Before a solid bulk cargo is loaded or unloaded, the master and the terminal representative shall agree on a 
plan which -
 (a)  shall ensure that the permissible forces and moments on the ship are not exceeded during loading or 
unloading; and
 (b)  shall include the sequence, quantity and rate of loading or unloading,
  taking into consideration the intended speed of loading or unloading, intended number of pours and the de-
ballasting or ballasting capability of the ship. the plan and any subsequent amendments thereto shall be lodged 
with the appropriate authority of the port state.
 (4)  the master and terminal representative shall ensure that loading and unloading operations are conducted in 
accordance with the plan agreed under sub-regulation (3).
	 (5)		If	during	loading	or	unloading	any	of	the	limits	of	the	ship	referred	to	in	sub-regulation	(2)	are	exceeded	or	are	
likely to become so and if the loading or unloading continues, the master has the right to suspend operation 
and the obligation to notify accordingly the appropriate authority of the port state with which the plan has 
been lodged. the master and the terminal representative shall ensure that corrective action is taken. When 
unloading cargo, the master and terminal representative shall ensure that the unloading method does not 
damage the ship’s structure.
 (6)  the master shall ensure that ship’s personnel continuously monitor cargo operations. Where possible, the 
ship’s	draught	shall	be	checked	regularly	during	loading	or	unloading	to	confirm	the	tonnage	figures	supplied.	
Each	draught	and	tonnage	observation	shall	be	recorded	in	a	cargo	log-book.	If	significant	deviations	from	
the plan agreed under sub-regulation (3) are detected, cargo or ballast operations or both shall be adjusted to 
ensure that the deviations are corrected.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
7A
PART	IV
Carriage Of Grain
14.	(1)	In	addition	to	any	other	applicable	requirements	of	these	regulations,	a	cargo	ship	carrying	grain	shall	comply	
with	the	requirements	of	the	International	Grain	Code,	and	hold	a	document	of	authorization	as	required	by	
that	Code.	In	the	case	of	a	Sri	Lanka	ship	the	document	of	authorisation	shall	be	issued	by	the	Director-General	
or	a	recognized	organisation.	For	the	purpose	of	this	regulation,	the	requirements	of	the	International	Grain	
Code shall be treated as mandatory.
 (2) (a) Where a sri Lankan ship fails to hold the document of authorization referred to in sub-regulation (1), 
outside	Sri	Lanka	waters,	such	ship	shall	not	load	grain	until	the	master	satisfies	the	appropriate	authority	
in the Contracting Government of the loading port that the ship will comply with the requirements of a 
International	Grain	Code	in	its	proposed	loaded	condition;
  (b)  Where a ship other than a sri Lanka ship fails to hold the document of authorization referred to in sub-
regulation	(1),	such	ship	shall	not	load	grain	until	the	master	satisfies	the	Director-General	that	the	ship	
will	comply	with	the	requirements	of	the	International	Grain	Code	in	its	proposed	loaded	condition;	and
  (c) 		In	both	cases	referred	in	sub-regulations	(2)(a)	and	(2)(b),	the	master	of	such	vessels	shall	obtain	a	document	
to	that	effect	signed	by	an	authroised	person	of	the	Contracting	Government	or	the	Director-General	as	
the case may be.
PART	V
General Provisions
15. Where any ship, being in any port or place in sri Lanka is found to be an unsafe ship is by reason of the defective 
condition of such ship’s hull, equipment, machinery, under manning, overloading or improper loading or any other 
condition	that	is	not	consistent	with	the	Convention,	unfit	to	proceed	to	sea	without	serious	damage	to	human	
life having regard to the nature of the service for which such ship is intended, such ship may be provisionally 
detained for the purpose of being surveyed or rectifying the defective condition.
16.	The	footnotes	in	Chapter	VI	of	the	Convention	and	the	resolutions,	circulars	or	documents	referred	by	such	
footnotes shall be deemed to be a part of these regulations.
17. the director-General may, with the concurrence of the Minister issue such implementing standards for the 
compliance with the minimum technical standards of the provisions of the Convention or Protocol 1988 as may 
be required for the implementation of the provisions of these regulations.
18.	In	these	regulations	–
“convention”	means	the	International	Convention	for	the	safety	of	Life	at	Sea	1974,	Protocol	of	1988	as	
amended from time to time and any subsequent amendment made to such Protocol;
“IMSBC	Code” means	the	International	Maritime	Solid	Bulk	Cargoes	(IMSBC)	Code	adopted	by	the	
Maritime safety Committee of the Organization by resolution MsC.268(85), as may be amended by 
the Organization;
“International Grain Code”	means	the	International	Code	for	the	Safe	Carriage	of	Grain	in	Bulk	adopted	by	
the Maritime safety Committee of the Organization by resolution MsC.23(59) as may be amended by 
the Organization;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
8A
“organisation”	means	International	Maritime	Organisation;
“Ro-ro	ship”	means	a	passenger	ship	with	ro-ro	spaces	or	special	category	spaces	as	defined	in	regulation	3	
of	Chapter	II-2	of	the	Convention;
“sri Lanka Port Authority” means	 the	Institute	constituted	 under	the	provisions	of	the	Sri	Lanka	Ports	
Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979; and
“short international voyage” is an international voyage in the course of which a ship is not more than 200 miles 
from a port or place in which the passengers and crew could be placed in safety. Neither the distance 
between	the	last	port	of	call	in	the	country	in	which	the	voyage	begins	and	the	final	port	of	destination	
nor	the	return	voyage	shall	exceed	600	miles.	The	final	port	of	destination	is	the	last	port	of	call	in	the	
scheduled voyage at which the ship commences its return voyage to the country in which the voyage began.
EOG 01-0247
PRINTED	AT	THE	DEPARTMENT	OF	GOVERNMENT	PRINTING,		SRI	LANKA.