

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Presented by Hon. Nalin Bandara Jayamaha, M. P. for Kurunegala District
on 01st December, 2015
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 28]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on November 16, 2015)
BILL
A
M. K. A. D. S. GUNAWARDANA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 006891— 850 (01/2013)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE M. K. A. D. S. GUNAWARDANA
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the "M. K.
A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation"  has heretofore been
formed for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and matters connected with the said foundation according
to the rules agreed to by its member:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be advantage to the public to
grant the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–
1. This Act may be cited as the M. K. A. D. S.
Gunawardana Foundation  (Incorporation) Act,  No.   of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many person as now are members of the
"M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation" (hereinafter
referred to as the "Foundation") or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be
a body corporate with perpetual succession under the name
and style of the "M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation"
(hereinafter referred to as "the Corporation") and by that
name may sue and be sued with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:–
(a) to promote peace, goodwil, understanding and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of institute of
M. K. A. D. S.
Gunawardana
foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needy
school children to enable them to continue their
education, encourage them to attend school
regularly, assist them in their educational, cultural
and scientific activities and to establish permanent
and mobile libraries;
(c) to promote and protect human rights, human values,
fundamental freedoms democracy and pluraism in
Sri Lanka;
(d) to promote sustainable development in rural and
backward areas by utilizing the natural resources
that is available in those areas;
(e) to promote agricultural and fishery sectors by
introducing latest technologies to obtain maximum
benefits;
(f) to establish information technology centres
islandwide for the advancement of scientific studies
and development of the country;
(g) to strengthen the Institute of higher studies,
encourage research and scholarship for the
advancement of higher eduction;
(h) to promote socal and cultural activities for enriching
different ethnicities and for integration the Sri
Lankan communities;
(i) to empower women, children and the marginalized
groups such as persons with disabilities, the poor
etc.;
(j) to promote and encourage humanitarian, sports,
literary, spiritual activities;

<!-- page 4 -->

3M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
(k) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or caste and
to conduct various festivals and competitions;
(l) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses for displaced persons and elders and
establish and maintain Children's homes and day
care centres for children and elders; and
(m) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provision of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board
of Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Hon. M. K.
A. D. S. Gunawardana shall be the Chairman of the Board of
Directors for life and thereafter, the Family member of the
person who was holding office as Chairman shall become
the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
25
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy and such a new members shall hold office for a
period of four years.
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, things and matters
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of objects of the corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of votes of not less than two thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provision
of this Act or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matter:–
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership payable;
(b) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Board of Directors, and
the Corporation, the quorum for such meetings and
the exercise and performance of their powers and
duties;
Rules of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the of
the Corporation;
(d) the qualification required to become a member of
the Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation;
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection(1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund, All
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
9 The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant,
lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due form him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section "qualified auditor" means–
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Accounts and
Audit of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation
 (Incorporation)
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certified
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.
13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and a member of the Board who shall sign their
names on the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil Text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
Seal of the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Repulbic and
others.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana Foundation
 (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .