

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.06.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1918$31 - 2015 cqks ui 13 jeks fikiqrdod - 2015'06'13
No.1918/31  - SATURDAY JUNE   13,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
NORTH  CENTRAL  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Education Statute No. 02 of 1990
THE aforesaid passed by the North Central Provincial Council of Sri Lanka Democratic Socialist Republic & the assent by the
Hon. Governor on 10th April 1990 is hereby, there, published by me for information.
P. K. P REMASIRI,
Secretary,
North Central Provincial Council.
North Central Provincial Council,
12th June 2015.
EDUCATION  STATUTE  No. 02  OF  1990
Statute of Educational Affairs in the North Central Provicial Council
(Attested on 10th April 1990)
A Statute provide for the establishment of the Department of Education in the North Central Province of Sri
Lanka in accordance with the functions delegated in terms of the sub-section III list I and Appendix III of the schedule 9 of
the 13th Amendment to the Construction of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Be it passed by the North Central Provincial Council of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1. This Statute may be cited as the Education Statute No. 02 of 1990 of the North Central Provincial Council and shall
come into operation from the date of the Governor's assent.
2. For the purpose of this statute, their shall be established a Department of Education, comprising a Director of
Education and other officers who shall be appointed from time to time.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.06.2015
2A
3.(i) The Director and other officers shall act subject of orders and administration of the Minister of Education
and the power of exercising the provisions of this statute and regulations enacted under such provisions
shall be delegated to the Director and other departmental officers, subject of the above condition.
(ii) In exercising the powers delegated to the Director under this Statute or regulations enacted under this
Statute, it may be legitimate to cancel or alter by the Minister, otherwise an appeal, the decisions taken by the
Director or directions issued by him. The decision of the Minister shall be final, and the Director and relevant
other all the persons are bound to accept such decision.
PART - I
Establishment of Education Advisory Committee, Divisional Education Advisory Committees and school
advisory Committees in the North Central Province.
04. I. There shall be established, with the concurrence of the Chief Minister, an Education Advisory Committee
comprising not less than seven persons.
II. The Secretary to the Ministry shall be appointed as the Chairman of this Committee by the Minister.
III. A departmental officer appointed by the Minister shall function as the Secretary of the Committee.
IV . The task of the Advisory Committee is to advise the Minister regarding the every matter pertaining of the
Education referred to the committee by the Minister and every matter that committee thinks that it is
necessary is advice by the committee.
V. The Minister, with the approval of the provincial council shall provide for the convening of the Advisory
Committee and for the conduction of meetings as well, and for the procedure to be adopted during Committee
Meeting.
VI. The Minister shall have the power of removing any member from the Committee at any time, and any member
of the Committee can resign from his post by informing the Minister in writing.
VII. Every Advisory Committee Member, who has not been resigned from his membership, or has not been
vacated his membership, shall hold his post for the period of two years, from his date of appointment.
05. I. There shall be appointed Divisional Advisory Committee by the Minister to advise the Director regarding
various matters pertaining to Education and Educational Requirements of the Divisions belong to the
Province.
II. Every Divisional Advisory Committee shall consist of following persons.
(a) Director of Education in charge of the Division.
(b) Mayor of the Municipal Council, Chairman of the Town Council and the Chairman of the Pradeshiya
Sabhas of the Division.
(c) Commissioner of the Municipal Council, Secretary of the Town Council and all the Divisional Secretaries
within the Education Division.
(d) Three Principals serving within the Education Division, nominated by the Provincial Director.
(e) Number of prefects not more than five, selected from the schools situated in the Division, nominated
by the Director in charge of the Division.
III. The Director of Education in charge of the Division of Education shall function as the Chairman of the
Divisional Education Advisory Committee.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.06.2015
IV . There shall be appointed a secretary among committee members at the first meeting of the Divisional
Advisory Committee.
V . Every matter referred to  the considerable of the Divisional Advisory Committee by the Director shall be
discussed, solved and finalized at the Divisional Advisory Committee Meeting summons at the due time
and the formal manner.
VI. No executive or administrative powers or duties have been entrusted with the Divisional Advisory
Committee established in respect of any Division under the Statute. Also, no functions, other than providing
resigned instructions or recommendation relevant to the education and requirements of Education, shall
be entrusted with the Divisional Advisory Committee, to be considered by the Director.
06. i. There shall be established School Advisory Committee in respect of every school situated in the Division
in the Province.
ii. The functions of the School Advisory Committee is to advise the school adminstrators regarding all the
matters relevant to School Administration, Organization, Development and Implementation of college
activities, as referred by the Director or when committee thinks it is necessary to do so.
iii. No administrative or executive powers, or administrative or executive functions have been entrusted with
the School Advisory Committees with regard to function whatsoever.
iv. The School Advisory Committee shall comprise following. The Principal and pre out of the staff (Number
of the Staff).
v . The Chairman of the School Advisory Committee shall be the principal of the School.
vi. Five members therein, nominated by the School Development Society.
vii. The power of implementing whatever function of the Provincial Education Advisory Committee under the
guidance and the administrator of the Provincial Advisory Committee and appointing Sub-committees for
special fields of education shall remain with the  Provincial Advisory Committee. There is provision for
appointment of other sub-committees for special fields, to the Sub-committee so appointed.
07. Admission to any school by any candidate may not be rejected on the grounds of his or one his parent's
religion, race caste,  social status or language.
08. The Provincial Council has the power of acquaracy any private lands in accordance with the prevailing law of
the province where land is situated, for the purpose of construction or expansion of School Buildings, Official Quarters,
Offices, or School premises and also for the establishment of school gardens and play grounds or for any purpose of the
statute.
09. i. No fee whatsoever should be charged for the admission of children to any school comes under the purview
of the Authority of Provincial Ministry.
ii. In addition to what is stated in sub-section I, there is provision under  this Statute to enact regulations for
delegation of required power for charging a fee or fees from the statutes of any school on behalf of the
expenditure incurred for provisions of facilities for sports, physical exercises, or educational, recreation
or health activities.
10. It is legitimate to enter any school and inspect the activities of properties there-in- by the Minister, or by the
Director or by any supervisory officer of the Ministry or the Department or a person empowered by the Minister or by the
Director.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.06.2015
4A
11. There shall be established a Provincial Education fund for assisting, developing, and improving, talents etc. of
the school children of the Province and the required regulations for the administration of such fund shall be enacted by the
Minister.
PART - II
POWERS  OF  THE  MINISTER  FOR  THE  ENACTMENT  OF  REGULATIONS
12. 1. The Minister has the ability to enact regulations for the implementation of the provisions and the policies
stated in this statute, and such regulations shall be cited as written laws.
2. The Minister shall enact regulations especially with regard to the following matters.
I. Provision of necessary facilities for all the schools in the province except for the National Schools,
Special Schools for the officers of the security forces, and schools reserved  for special development
programme,
II. Monitoring administration of all the other schools and pre-schools in the Province except special
schools stated under 12 (2) 1 above.
III. Recruitment of personals for the Teachers service and for the other services connected there-in, of
the Department of Education.
IV . Appointment of Principals for all the school in the Province not belong to categories 1A, B and C.
V . Transfers and Disciplinary control of all the persons relevant to the field of Education.
VI. Preparation and Implementation of Provincial Education Development Plan and Divisional Education
Development Plan.
VII. Implementation of Annual Education Development Plan.
VIII. Evaluation of Performance of Principals, Teachers and every other officers relevant to Education.
IX. Implementation of In-service Training Programmes.
X. Conduct of Divisional Examination approved by the Commissioner of Examination.
XI. Implementation of Informal Education Programmes.
XII. Registration and Supervision of Pre-Schools.
XIII. Obtaining approval of the National Institute of Education for effecting divisional level changes in
the selected subjects of the preliminary curricular and secondary curricular.
XIV. Construction and Maintenance of Educational Buildings, Libraries and Play-grounds.
XV. Procurement and Distribution of Teaching aids, Visual-aids and audio-visual-aids.
XVI. Procurement and Distribution of Scientific Equipment.
XVII. Produce and Distribution of  School books obtaining approval of the Ministry.
XVIII. Organization and Development of School Libraries according to the guidance of the National Library
Service Board.
XIX. Determining limits of any Divisional Education Office situated in the Province.
XX. Recruitments to colleges in the Province, Courses and Educational Programmes and Supplementary
Reading Books, equipment to be used.
XXI. Determining days, terms and periods of conducting classes of all the schools in the province or any
school nominated or any particular class of a school and also of holidays.
XXII. Students welfare activities including medical tests or treatments for school children, Student's health,
free meals and free books.
XXIII. Grading, Promoting and categorizing and opening of new schools in the Province according to the
policies and standards followed by the National Ministry.
XXIV. Pre paration and Implementation of Plans connected to the Adult Education in the Province.
XXV. Preparation of Provincial Budget and Financial Administration, Projecting the smooth maintenance
of Educational Requirements of the Province.
XXVI. Any other important matter described by the Minister for enactment of regulations.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.06.2015
3. Every regulations prepared under this statute shall be valid after receiving the approval of the Provincial
Council.
PART - III
GENERAL
13. 1. In this Statute, under the context otherwise requires,
'Governor' means the Governor of the North Central Provicne,
'Chief Minister' means the Chief Minister of the North Central Province.
'Minister", means the Minister in charge of the Subject of Education.
'Secretary' means the Secretary to the Ministry of Education.
'Director' menas the Director of Education of the North Central Province or any Head of Department
empowered by the Director to exercise powers and duties of the Director of Education of the North
Central Province or under the Statute,
'Department' means the Department of Education of the North Central Province.
'Provincial Advisory Committee' means the Provincial Advisory Committee established in accordandce with
the para 4 (1).
'Divisional Advisory Committee' means the Committee stated in para 5 (1).
'School Advisory Committee' means in a board stated in para 6 (1).
'Educational Requirements' means facilities required for the Sufficient Educational and Technical Training
according to the Publication of Regulations.
2. Unless it is proved that it is not so, it will be considered that actual guardian of the child as the resident
of the place where any child generally stay.
06 - 825
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.