

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1567
1567
wxl 1"771 - 2012 wf.daia;= 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'08'10
No. 1,771 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 10, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1570
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1579
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 30th August, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th
August, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,770 of 03.08.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1568
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1569
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1570
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
NUWARA-ELIYA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th Sep tember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
23rd July, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post  and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Kotmale Post of Registrar of Marriage (Kandyan/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
General) of Kotmale Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Udapane Division Nuwara Eliya.
Nuwara Eliya Ambagamuwa Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Hatton Dikoya Town Division General, District Secretariat,
Nuwara Eliya.
08–302
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
BATTICALOA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1571
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Sep tember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th July, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Batticaloa Manmunai West Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of The District Secretary/The Govt. Agent/
Kannankudah Division and Marriages The Additional Registrar General,
(General) of Manmunai West Division District Secretariat, Batticaloa
08–301
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  CHILD  DEVELOPMENT  AND
WOMEN'S  AFFAIRS
Recruitment for the Post of Cook in the Department of
Probation and Child Care Services on contract basis
APPLICATIONS are invited to fill the vacancies in the Post of
Cook at the Children Training and Counseling Centre, Paraththa
under the Department of Probation and Child Care Services.
01. General Qualifications :
(a) The applicant should be a female citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) The applicant should be of good character.
02. Educational qualifications .– The applicant should have
passed not less than six (06) subjects at the General Certificate of
Education Examination in one sitting with at least two (02) credit
passes.
03. Professional qualifications. – The applicant should have
followed a Course in Cooking, not less than second or third level of
National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) under the National
Apprenticeship Board or at an Institute approved by the Ministry
of Vocational Training ; or
Two years (02) service experience in a recognized institution.
04. Salary.– Rs. 12,210 + Government approved allowances.
05. Age limit.– The applicant should not be less than 18 years
and not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of applications.
06. Conditions of Service :
(a) Recruitment will be made on Contract Basis for a period
of one year ;
(b) The provisions of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Pubilc Service
commission No. 1,589/30 and the general conditions in
the Procedural Regulations published in the Gazette
Extra-ordinary dated 20.02.2009 are applicable to
selected applicants. They will also be subject to the
provisions of the Establishment Code and Financial
Regulations, Departmental Orders already issued or that
may hereafter be issued by the Government.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1572
07. Method of Recruitment.– By a structured interview.
08. Method of Applying :
(a) Applications prepared by applicants themselves in A4
size paper should be sent by Registered Post, addressed
to the Commissioner of Department of Probation and
Child Care Services, No. 150A, Nawala Road, Nugegoda
to reach him before 24.08.2012. To examine relevant
Educational and professional qualifications, photo copies
of certificates should be submitted with the applications,
photo copies of certificates have to be certified by the
applicant herself. "Recurrent for the Post of  Cook –
2012" should be written on the top left corner of the
envelope containing the application.
(b) Those who are already in Public Service should forward
their applications through the Heads of their respective
Department.
09. Submission of false information. – If it is revealed any time
before the appointment is given that the applicant is not eligible for
the post, the candidature will be cancelled. if it is revealed after the
appointment is given that the applicant is not eligible or that false
information has been given or correct information has been
purposely concealed by the applicant, the appointee will be
dismissed from service.
10. The decision of the Commissioner, Probation and Child
Care Services will be final on issues pertaining to matters in this
notification calling for applications or any other matters not revealed
by this notification.
Y
AMUNA PERERA,
Commissioner.
Department of Probation and
Child Care Services,
No. 150,
Nawala Road,
Nugegoda,
July, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICA TIONS FOR THE POST OF COOK IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROBATION AND CHILD CARE SERVICES IN CONTRACT BASIS
01. Applicant's name in full :
(a) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––.
(b) In English :––––––––.
02. Permanent address :––––––––.
03. Residential address :––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––,  Month :––––––––,  Date :––––––––.
06. Civil status :––––––––.
07. Education qualifications :
(1) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :––––––––.
Year :––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
(2) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––.
Subject Pass
08. Professional qualifications :––––––––.
09. Service experience :––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE APPLICANT
I .......................... do hereby declare that the particulars furnished
above are true and accurate. I am also aware that I have never been
dismissed from the Public Service or sent on retirement due to
inefficiency as an option and not been treated as a person who had
vacated a post in the Public Service. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am
liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed without
payment of compensation, if such detection is made after selection.
–––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department for those applicants in the
Public Service :
I certify that Ms........................ works at present in this
Ministry/Department as a .................... on a permanent/temporary/
casual basis and I can/can not release her if selected for appointment
for this post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––.
Name :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Official Seal :––––––––.
08–359

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1573
MINISTRY  OF  PORTS  AND  HIGHWAYS
Director General's Office of Merchant Shipping
APPLICA TIONS are invited for the following posts, from citizens of Sri Lanka who possess the necessary qualifications as indicated in this
Notification.
Posts V acant :
Post Class No. of Posts
Port State Controller (Engineering) Class I 01
Government Ship Serveyor Class I 01
Examiner (Engineering) Class I 01
Port State Controller (Deck) Class I 01
1. In this notice "Secretary" shall mean the "Secretary to the Ministry of which the subject of Shipping is assigned".
2. Effective date of appointment will be determined as per the orders of the Public Service Commission.
3. Qualifications and Experience :
Posts Educational Qualifications Experience
Port State Controller (Engineering) Applicants should possess a Certificate of Having served as a Chief Engineer for
Competency as a Chief Engineer issued by the a period of minimum 2 years in a
Government Ship Surveyor Director General's Office of Merchant Shipping, trading merchant vessel with an
Sri Lanka or a Government Maritime Administration Engine Capacity of more than
Examiner (Engineering) of the following countries : United Kingdom, Australia, 3,000 K.w.
Canada, China, India, Pakistan, Newzeland, Malaysia,
Singapore, South Africa and Ireland or a country that
has an agreement on mutual recognition with
Sri Lanka for relevant certificates.
Port State Controller (Deck) Applicants should  possess a Certificate of Competency Having sereved as a Master for a
as Master issued by the Director General's Office of period of minimum 02 years in a
Merchant Shipping, Sri Lanka or a Governemnt trading merchant vessel having a
Maritime Administration of the following countries : capacity of not less than 3,000 G . T.
United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, India,
Pakistan, Newzeland, Malaysia, Singapore, South
Africa and Ireland or a country that has an agreement
on mutual recognition with Sri Lanka for relevant
certificates.
Physical Fitness.– All candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the
duties of the post. Selected candidates will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
Other Qualifications.– A candidate applying for these posts must –
(i) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) have a sound moral character ;
(iii) have a satisfied all the requirements for recruitment to the post, on the prescribed date as per the notification/Gazette.
4. Salary Scale.– As per the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 Salary Scale for these posts as given below :
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790 -17x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (SL-1-2006). Salary range payable starts from the 20th step of this scale.
5. Age.– Should not be less than 30 years and not more than 45 years of age. (This upper age limit will not apply to those who are
already employed in the Public Service).

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1574
6. Method of Recruitment.– Marks will be allotted by the Interview Board appointed by the Public Service Commission as per the
marking sceme below. Vacancies will be filled as per the priority of the number of marks obtained by the applicant at the interview.
Areas to be checked and the marks allotted Maximum Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 30
Professional Qualifications 10
Additional Experience 30
Contribution for the field work 10
Computer Literacy 15
Skills shown at the interview 05
Total 100
7. Terms of Engagement :
(i) Efficiency Bar Examination :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 05 years from the date of appointment.
Nature of Efficiency Bar - Written Examination.
(ii) Language Proficiency :
Language Proficiency to be acquired
Official Language Officers who are recruited in a language medium other than an official language shall
acquire one such prescribed official language proficiency during the probation period
and the other official language within 6 years after their appointment.
Other Official Language In terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular 07/2007, should have acquired
level 1 proficiency.
(iii) Above posts are permanent and pensionable. Contributions must be made to "Widows and Orphans" Pension Fund.
(iv) This appointment will be on probation for a period of 3 years.
(v) A selected candidate will be appointed to class I of the service on the terms and conditions govering appointments under
the Extra Ordinary Gazette Notification No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009 of the Public Service Commission and under the
conditions of Administrative Regulations.
(vi) All the recruitments should be subjected to the approved Scheme of Recruitment and any amendments made or to be
made hereafter to the Scheme of Recruitment.
8. Method of Applying :
(i) Applications which should be in the form appended to this notification should be sent by registered post or by e-mail
(dmsmos@sltnet.lk) to reach the Director General, Director General's Office of Merchant Shipping, No. 43/89, 1st
Floor, Bristol Building, York Street, Colombo 1 on or before 30th August, 2012. The envelope enclosing the application
should be marked with the relevant post on the left hand top corner.
(ii) Applications from officers in the Public Service must be forwarded through the Heads of their Departments.
In this notification, if thee is any conflict between the English, Sinhala and Tamil texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
On the Order of Public Service Commission,
R. W. R. P
EMASIRI,
Secretary,
Ministry of Ports and Highways.
Ports Division,
Layden Bastian Road,
Colombo 01,
26th July, 2012.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1575
FORM OF APPLICATION
THE POST OF ................................... OF DIRECTOR GENERAL'S
OFFICE OF MERCHANT SHIPPING
MINISTRY OF PORTS AND HIGHWAYS
01. Name in full :–––––––––––––.
02. Address :–––––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :  Age as at 30th August, 2012 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
04. Nationality :–––––––––––––.
05. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––––.
06. Professional qualifications :–––––––––––––.
07. Particulars of Employment or Training :–––––––––––––.
08. Present Employment :–––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification before the selection and to dismissal without any
compensation whatsoever if the inaccuracies are detected after the
appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
08–360
––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA   POLICE   DEPARTMENT
Post of Police Constable Driver
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Recruit Police Constable Driver in the Sri Lanka Police
Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by registered post to
the abovementioned address to reach on or before 15.11.2012 and
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the applications. Delayed application will
be rejected and no application will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary Scale.– Rs. 171,360 - 7 x 1,740-27x 2,160 - Rs. 241,860.
Further, these officers are entitled to cost of living allowances
paid to other public officers and the allowance granted in accordance
with the Public Administration Circular, No. 31/11 dated 12.12.2011.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances monthly :
(a) Special arduous duty allowance :
Rs. cts.
(1) For performance of duties in 1,200 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance of duties in other areas 600 0
(b) Combined allowance :
Rs. cts.
(1) For performance of duties in 10,500 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance of duties in other areas 5,600 0
(c) Free transport facilities.
(d) Free medical facilities to officers  (Financial assistance can
be obtained for medical treatment even in a foreign
country.).
(e) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(f) Facilities to imporve skills and talents in sports.
(g) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
04. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age Limits. – The age should be between 19 and 32
years as at closing date as per the Gazette Notification.
(b) Educational Qualifications :
Should have passed 06 subjects in the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination not mroe than 2 sittings.
Note.– 01. According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in determining the
number of subjects passed at G . C. E. (O/L) both
passes in Science subjects Number 41 and 44
will be treated as one subject and both passes in
Mathematics Number 42 and 45 will be treated
as one subject.
Note.– 02. Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note.– 03. Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G . C. E. (O/L) syllabus passes in any of these

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1576
subjects will not be computed as a pass in the
G. C. E.  (O/L) Examination.
(c) Physical Requirements :
  * Height 05 feet 03 inches (minimum).
  * Chest 30 inches minimum (in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided that they have
skills in sports or have achieved best performance in
sports at national level or they have earned reputation
for Sri Lanka by participating in an international
competition.
(d) Professional Qualifications :
(i) Certificate of competence in driving light or heavy
vehicles.
(ii) At least, one year experience in driving motor
vehicles after obtaining the above certificate.
Note.– Priority will be given for knowledge of motor
mechanism, experieance in repairs of vehicles and
long term experience in driving vehicles.
* If any applicant has deformity or any other
physical disability which impedes movement of
physical limb required for competence in driving
will be disqualified, although he has obtained a
medical certificate to the effect that he is fit for
service.
* The applicants who have basic qualifications will
be tested for their ability for driving and
maintaining vehicles. Their knowledge of road rules
and traffic signals and basic knowledge of
mechanical theories of the vehicle in which the
applicant has achieved competence in driving will
also be tested.
(e) Visual Requirement.– Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye and
6/18 with the other eye will be accepted. Colour vision
should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or
contact lenses will not be eligible for being selected for
the service.
(f) Other Qualifications :
Applicants may be married or unmarried.
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will have to
pass the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department of
Police. Only those who have passed this test can participate in the
Physical Fitness tests or Endurance Test and should pass that test.
 1,000 meters 03 minutes 44 seconds
Only those who are successful in the test will be summoned
for final interview. Only those who score 40% or more will
be summoned for the professional test.
6. Professional Qualifications  :
6.1 Professional Test will be conducted by the Assistant
Director of Police Driving School under the supervision
of the Director, Sri Lanka Police College.
6.2 100 marks have been allocated for the professional test.
The test will be conducted as follows :
(a) Competence in driving vehicles - 50 marks
(b) Road rules manual - 25 marks
(c) Knowledge on maintenance of vehicles and ability
to attend to minor repairs - 25 marks.
6.3 Professional Test.– Applicants who obtain a minimum
of 25 out of the maximum marks of 50 allocated to the
eligibility of driving vehicle, a minimum of 12.5 out of
the maximum marks of 25 allocated to the knowledge
on the road rules manual, a minimum of 12.5 out of the
maximum marks of 25 allocated to the maintenance and
attending to minor repairs, thus obtaining a total of 50
out of total marks of 100 allocated will be considered
as having passed the professional test. Only the
candidates who pass the professional test will be invited
for the interview.
Note.– Police Constable Drivers who are recruited should
obtain certificates to drive heavy vehicles and pass
the heavy vehicle driving test conducted by the Police
College before the end of probation period.
7. Medical Examination.– Applicants selected as per the list of
priority and order of merit will have to should pass a Medical
Examination prior to the appointment. Unsuccessful candidates
will be rejected.
8. Background Inquiries  :
(a) Inquiries will be made on the conduct of the applicant,
close relations and friends. Applicants with  bad conduct
will not be recruited ;
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
9. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular, No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Public Service with effect from

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1577
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they enter the service.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the language test secondary level conducted by the Official
Language Department.
* The salary increments of the officers who do not acquire
the specified proficiency in the second official language
within a period of 05 years from the date of their
appointments will be deferred until they obtain
qualifications.
10. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
11. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to a three year probation
period ;
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any regulation already made or made hereinafter to give
effect to the official language policy ;
(c) They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code V olume I and II, Financial
Regulations, Departmental Orders Police Disciplinary
Code and any other orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time ;
(d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be required
to pass the prescribed Departmental Examinations. Those
who fail to pass the prescribed examinations or are found
to be unfit for Poilce duties will be liable for removal
from the Police Service ;
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of the
Inspector General of Police. However, in terms of P. G . II
No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and I. G .'s Circular No.
1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and Circular (Amended) dated
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry showing special
reasons and with the permission of Inspector General of
Police ;
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a recruit period of three years in the Police
Department and if they wish to resign from service before
their recruit period is over, they should sign an agreement
of consent to the effect that they are willing to pay at the
time of tendering their resignation, any amount which
was incurred on the training and uniforms etc., together
with any other prescribed payments. Director of Police
Training College will decide it having calculated dues from
the applicants. The acceptance of resignation should
conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of V olume I of the
Establishments Code 1985 ;
(g) Immediately after Recruit Police Constable Drivers have
commenced training at the Police Training College, they
should subscribe affirmation/oath to the effect that they
comply with the Police Disciplinary Code in terms of the
I. G. P.’s Circular, No. 1693/2003 ;
(h) Immediately after Recruit Police Constable Drivers have
commencement their training at the Police College, they
should subscribe the Oath of allegiance to the Public
Service, in terms of the I. G .P.'s Circular, No. 1804/2004 ;
(i) Recruit Police Constable Drivers who have been confirmed
in the post will have opportunities for promotions in
terms of the approved scheme of promotions of the Police
Department.
12. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointment to the posts in the public service
published at the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette ;
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular, No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
13. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their applications (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from non
related persons) ;
(iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of up any outstanding sports or
other extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates regarding experience in service (if available) ;
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card ;
(vii) A Photostat copy of the valid Driving Licence.
14. (a) Applicants who are already in the public service must
forward their applications through the Heads of their
respective Departments and must be accompanied by a
Certificate stating that the officers can be released if
selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the Copies of Certificates called for to the
address given in paragraph 2 and under no circumstances
should applications be handed over personally to any
officer in the Department.
15. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1578
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
SRI LANKA POLICE DEPARTMENT
POST OF RECRUIT POLICE CONSTABLE DRIVER
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Copy of the NIC should de attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Police Station to which the place of birth belongs :––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police Station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(d) Police Station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) Police Station to which the Electorate belongs :––––––.
(f) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :–––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––.
(g) Telephone Number (Residence) :–––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are a citizen by birth or registration :–––––.
(If by registration attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :––––––––.
07. Date of birth :––––––––––. (Copy of the birth certificate should
be attached).
Age : (As at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
Chest (Inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (State examinations passed and attach
copies of Certificates) :––––––––––.
10. ( a)  Driving Licence No. :––––––––––.
(b) Date of issue :––––––––––.
(c) Classes competent to drive :––––––––––.
(Attach a photostat copy of the Driving Licence).
11. Additional qualifications (Copies of the Certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
12. Whether married or single :––––––––––.
13. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) Are you a member of a armed forces ? :––––––––––.
14. Do you have any special skills and/or qualification :–––––––.
15. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant  :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
16. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service of Regular Police Service,  (If so give reference) :
––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police Service before ? (If so under
what circumstances did you leave the service ? Give
details) : ––––––––––.
17. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach a copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Service Commander) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
19. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ? (If so, your application must be submitted
through the respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed Service ?
:–––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate).

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1579
20. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
21. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence ? (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false, I am aware that I am liable for
immediate termination of my service in the Police Department at
any time even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
08–324
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  SRI  LANKA
AYURVEDIC  COMMUNITY  MEDICAL  ASSISTANT
SERVICE - 2012
IT’S hereby notify that an Efficiency Bar Examination for Ayurvedic
Community Medical Assistant Service (for Ayurvedic Community
Medical Assistant) will be held in Colombo by the Department of
Ayurveda.
01. Candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner of Ayurveda.
02. The application for this examination should be in the form of
the specimen appendix to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Application should be sent by those
who are qualified according to the schemes of recruitment of the Sri
Lanka Ayurvedic Community Medical Assistant Service, by the
registered post through the respective heads of the institution to
reach the "Registrar, Examination Division, Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna, Maharagama" on or before 30.08.2012. "Efficiency Bar
Examination for Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Community Medical Assistant
Service - 2012" should be indicated at top hand corner of the envelope
containing the application. Applications received after the closing
date will be rejected.
The Candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not to pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 100 should be affixed for the whole examinations for the
subsequent sittings and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 per subject
should be affixed if not applying for the whole examination, the
stamp should be dully cancelled by placing signature of the candidate
and the date. Under any circumstance the fees will be refunded of
transferred.
03. Identity of the Candidates. – Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by Department of
Registrar of persons ;
(ii) A valid passport ;
04. The Commissioner, Department of Ayurveda will issue the
timetable and admission card to all candidates whose applications
have been accepted. Candidates should get their signature on the
admission card attested in advance and submit to the supervisor of
the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not be
permited to sit for the examination. If a candidate has not received
his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before the day of
examination. He/She should without delay inform the "Registrar,
Examination Division, Department of Ayurveda, Navinna,
Maharagama" about the non receipt of admission cards along with
the following information.
(i) Name of the Examination :–
(ii) Full name of the Candidate :–
(iii) Postal Address :–
(iv) Post Office, Registration Number and Date of dispatch :–
05. Scheme of Examination (According to the service miniute of
the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Community Medical Assistant Service).
(i) Financial Regulation :
This is a written paper for testing the general understanding
points under Financial Regulation of Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka - Chapter II from XIV Annual
Expenditure estimate of the consolidated fund, Authority
to spend according to income statements and expenditure
control, ability to keep accounts, receipts and payments.
(ii) Establishment Code :
This is a written paper prepared based on testing the
understanding regarding knowledge on the Establishment
Code and PSC procedural rules code, the knowledge with
regard to Chapters III, IV , VII, XII, XIII, XXIV , XXVII,
XXVIII of the Establishment Code V olume I and Chapter
XLVII and XLVIII of the Establishment Code V olume II.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2012
1580
Note.– Candidate must obtain 40 marks to pass in each
subject.
P. S. K. R. WEERAKOON,
Commissioner of Ayurveda,
Department of Ayurveda.
Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna,
Maharagama.
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR SRI LANKA
AYURVEDIC COMMUNITY MEDICAL ASSISTANT
SERVICE – 2012
Index No. :
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
Sinhala – S T amil – T
01. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Names dentoed by initials :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
04. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil letters)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute (In English
capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
07. Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute (In Sinhala/
Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
08. (i) Post :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the letter of appointment :––––––––.
09. Subject you offer :
Number Su bject Subject Number
10. Have you been passed examination in previous sittings, any of
the following subjects. Financial Regulation/Establishment Code
if, so Index No. and date :
Subject Index No. Year
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :––––––––.
If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––––––.
Stamp cage :
Stamp to the value of Rs. 100 whole examination and
Rs. 50 for each subject
Note.– The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant value
and cancel them by placing their signature and date, stamps
should not overlap each other.
I declare that the above particulars are true that I am eligible to
appear for the examination. In the language medium indicated above.
I also certify that the Rs. .......................... stamps affixed here to are
genuine and have not been used before. I agree to abide by the rules
and regulations of this examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institute or an officer authorized to sign
on behalf of such head of the department.
Attestation of the signature
I do hereby certify that .......................... who forward this
application is an officer attach to my Office/known to me personally
and that he/she placed his/her signature before me on .................
––––––––––––,
Signature Attester.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
08–235
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.