

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2321$55 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2023'03'02
No. 2321/55  -  THURSDAY,  MARCH 02,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
*RYHUQPHQW1RWL¿FDWLRQV
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT, No. 15 of 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), 
the Institute has adopted the Interest Rate Benchmark Reform-Ph ase 2 Amendments to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
H൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGVEHJLQQLQJRQRUDIWHUst-DQXDU\SXEOLVKHGKHUHZLWKIRUWKHSXUSRVHRIWKH6UL
/DQND$FFRXQWLQJDQG$XGLWLQJ6WDQGDUGV$FW1RRI7KLV6WDQGDUGVKDOOEHH൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGV
EHJLQQLQJRQRUDIWHUst January 2021.   
By Order of the Council, 
 R.S. $ඇඈආൺ3උංඒൺൽൺඋඌඁൺඇං,
  Secretary 
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A, 
Malalasekera Mawatha,
&RORPER
02
nd March, 2023.
N.B.— 6LQKDODDQG7DPLOYHUVLRQVRIWKLV*D]HWWH([WUDRUGLQDU\DUHSXEOLVKHGVHSDUDWHO\
1A - PG 6300 - (04/2023)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
Amendments to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
 
Paragraphs 5.4.5 –5.4.9, paragraphs 6.8.13, 6.9.1 –6.9.13, paragraphs 7.1.9 and 7.2.43 –7.2.46 are 
added. A heading is added before paragraph 6.9.1 and subheading s are added before paragraphs 
5.4.5, 6.9.7, 6.9.9, 6.9.11 and 7.2.43. For ease of reading these paragraphs have not been underlined 
 
Amortised cost measurement 
… 
 
Changes in the basis for determining the contractual cash flows as a result of interest rate benchmark 
reform 
An entity shall apply paragraphs 5.4.6‒5.4.9 to a financial ass et or financial liability if, and only if, 
the basis for determining the contractual cash flows of that financial asset or financial liability changes 
as a result of interest rate benchmark reform. For this purpose, the  term ‘interest rate benchmark 
reform’ refers to the market -wide reform of an interest rate benchmark as described in para graph 
6.8.2. 
The basis for determining the contractual cash flows of a finan cial asset or financial liability can 
change: 
(a) by amending the contractual terms specified at the initial recognition of the financial instrument 
(for example, the contractual terms are amended to replace the referenced interest rate benchmark 
with an alternative benchmark rate); 
(b) in a way that was not considered by —or contemplated in —the  contractual terms at the initial 
recognition of the financial instrument, without amending the contractual terms (for example, the 
method for calculating the interest rate benchmark is altered w ithout amending the contractual 
terms); and/or 
(c) because of the activation of an existing contractual term (for example, an existing fallback clause 
is triggered). 
As a practical expedient, an entity shall apply paragraph B5.4. 5 to account for a change in the basis 
for determining the contractual cash flows of a financial asset or financial liability that is required by 
interest rate benchmark reform. This practical expedient applies only to such changes and only to the 
extent the change is required by interest rate benchmark reform  (see also paragraph 5.4.9). For this 
purpose, a change in the basis for determining the contractual cash flows is required by interest rate 
benchmark reform if, and only if, both these conditions are met: 
(a) the change is necessary as a direct consequence of interest rate benchmark reform; and  
(b) the new basis for determining the contractual cash flows is eco nomically equivalent to the 
previous basis (ie the basis immediately preceding the change) 
Examples of changes that give rise to a new basis for determini ng the contractual cash flows that is 
economically equivalent to the previous basis (ie the basis immediately preceding the change) are: 
(a) the replacement of an existing interest rate benchmark used to determine the contractual cash 
flows of a financial asset or financial liability with an alter native benchmark rate —or the 
implementation of such a reform of an interest rate benchmark b y altering the method used to 
calculate the interest rate benchmark—with the addition of a fixed spread necessary to compensate 
for the basis difference between the existing interest rate benchmark and the alternative benchmark 
rate; 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
(b) changes to the reset period, reset dates or the number of days between coupon payment dates in 
order to implement the reform of an interest rate benchmark; and 
(c) the addition of a fallback provision to the contractual terms o f a financial asset or financial 
liability to enable any change described in (a) and (b) above to be implemented. 
If changes are made to a financial asset or financial liability  in addition to changes to the basis for 
determining the contractual cash flows required by interest rat e benchmark reform, an entity shall 
first apply the practical expedient in paragraph 5.4.7 to the c hanges required by interest rate 
benchmark reform. The entity shall then apply the applicable re quirements in this Standard to any 
additional changes to which the practical expedient does not apply. If the additional change does not 
result in the derecognition of the financial asset or financial liability, the entity shall apply paragraph 
5.4.3 or paragraph B5.4.6, as applicable, to account for that additional change. If the additional change 
results in the derecognition of the financial asset or financia l liability, the entity shall apply the 
derecognition requirements. 
… 
Temporary exceptions from applying specific hedge accounting requirements 
End of application 
… 
6.8.13 An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraphs 6.8.7 and 6.8.8 at the earlier of: 
 
(a) when changes required by interest rate benchmark reform are mad e to the non-contractually 
specified risk component applying paragraph 6.9.1; or 
 
(b) when the hedging relationship in which the non-contractually sp ecified risk component is 
designated is discontinued. 
 
Additional temporary exceptions arising from interest rate benchmark reform 
 
As and when the requirements in paragraphs 6.8.4–6.8.8 cease to apply to a hedging relationship (see 
paragraphs 6.8.9–6.8.13), an entity shall amend the formal designation of that h edging relationship 
as previously documented to reflect the changes required by int erest rate benchmark reform, ie the 
changes are consistent with the requirements in paragraphs 5.4. 6–5.4.8. In this context, the hedge 
designation shall be amended only to make one or more of these changes 
 
(a) designating an alternative benchmark rate (contractually or non - contractually 
specified) as a hedged risk; 
(b) amending the description of the hedged item, including the desc ription of the 
designated portion of the cash flows or fair value being hedged; or 
(c) amending the description of the hedging instrument.  
 
An entity also shall apply the requirement in paragraph 6.9.1(c) if these three conditions are met 
(a) the entity makes a change required by interest rate benchmark reform using an approach other than 
changing the basis for determining the contractual cash flows o f the hedging instrument (as 
described in paragraph 5.4.6); 
(b) the original hedging instrument is not derecognised; and 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
(c) the chosen approach is economically equivalent to changing the basis for determining the 
contractual cash flows of the original hedging instrument (as d escribed in paragraphs 5.4.7 and 
5.4.8). 
 
The requirements in paragraphs 6.8.4–6.8.8 may cease to apply at different times. Therefore, in applying 
paragraph 6.9.1, an entity may be required to amend the formal designation of its hedging relationships 
a t  d i f f e r e n t  t i m e s ,  o r  m a y  b e  r e q u i r e d  t o  a m e n d  t h e  f o r m a l  d e s ignation of a hedging relationship more than 
once. When, and only when, such a change is made to the hedge designation, an entity shall apply 
paragraphs 6.9.7–6.9.12 as applicable. An entity also shall apply paragraph 6.5.8 (for a fair value hedge) 
o r  p a r a g r a p h  6 . 5 . 1 1  ( f o r  a  c a s h  f l o w  h e d g e )  t o  a c c o u n t  f o r  a n y  changes in the fair value of the hedged item 
or the hedging instrument. 
 
An entity shall amend a hedging relationship as required in paragraph 6.9.1 by the end of the reporting 
period during which a change required by interest rate benchmark reform is made to the hedged risk, 
hedged item or hedging instrument. For the avoidance of doubt, such an amendment to the formal 
designation of a hedging relationship constitutes neither the d iscontinuation of the hedging 
relationship nor the designation of a new hedging relationship. 
 
If changes are made in addition to those changes required by in terest rate benchmark reform to the 
financial asset or financial liability designated in a hedging relationship (as described in paragraphs 
5.4.6–5.4.8) or to the designation of the hedging relationship (as re quired by paragraph 6.9.1), an 
entity shall first apply the applicable requirements in this St andard to determine if those additional 
changes result in the discontinuation of hedge accounting. If t he additional changes do not result in 
the discontinuation of hedge accounting, an entity shall amend the formal designation of the hedging 
relationship as specified in paragraph 6.9.1. 
 
Paragraphs 6.9.7–6.9.13 provide exceptions to the requirements specified in thos e paragraphs only. 
An entity shall apply all other hedge accounting requirements i n this Standard, including the 
qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.4.1, to hedging relationship s that were directly affected by interest 
rate benchmark reform. 
 
Accounting for qualifying hedging relationships 
 
Cash flow hedges 
 
For the purpose of applying paragraph 6.5.11, at the point when  an entity amends the description of 
a hedged item as required in paragraph 6.9.1(b), the amount acc umulated in the cash flow hedge 
reserve shall be deemed to be based on the alternative benchmar k rate on which the hedged future 
cash flows are determined. 
 
For a discontinued hedging relationship, when the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged future 
cash flows had been based is changed as required by interest rate benchmark reform, for the purpose 
of applying paragraph 6.5.12 in order to determine whether the hedged future cash flows are expected 
to occur, the amount accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve  for that hedging relationship shall 
be deemed to be based on the alternative benchmark rate on which the hedged future cash flows will 
be based. 
Groups of items 
 
When an entity applies paragraph 6.9.1 to groups of items designated as hedged items in a fair value 
or cash flow hedge, the entity shall allocate the hedged items to subgroups based on the benchmark 
rate being hedged and designate the benchmark rate as the hedge d  r i s k  f o r  e a c h  s u b g r o u p .  F o r  
example, in a hedging relationship in which a group of items is hedged for changes in an interest rate 
benchmark subject to interest rate benchmark reform, the hedged  cash flows or fair value of some 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
items in the group could be changed to reference an alternative benchmark rate before other items in 
the group are changed. In this example, in applying paragraph 6 .9.1, the entity would designate the 
alternative benchmark rate as the hedged risk for that relevant  subgroup of hedged items. The entity 
would continue to designate the existing interest rate benchmar k as the hedged risk for the other 
subgroup of hedged items until the hedged cash flows or fair va lue of those items are changed to 
reference the alternative benchmark rate or the items expire an d are replaced with hedged items that 
reference the alternative benchmark rate. 
 
Designation of risk components 
 
An alternative benchmark rate designated as a non-contractually specified risk component that is not 
separately identifiable (see paragraphs 6.3.7(a) and B6.3.8) at the date it is designated shall be deemed 
to have met that requirement at that date, if, and only if, the entity reasonably expects the alternative 
benchmark rate will be separately identifiable within 24 months. The 24-month period applies to each 
alternative benchmark rate separately and starts from the date the entity designates the alternative 
benchmark rate as a non-contractually specified risk component for the first time (ie the 24- month 
period applies on a rate-by-rate basis). 
 
If  subsequently an entity reasonably expects that the alternative benchmark rate will not be separately 
identifiable within 24 months from the date the entity designat ed it as a non-contractually specified 
risk component for the first time, the entity shall cease applying the requirement in paragraph 6.9.11 
to that alternative benchmark rate and discontinue hedge accoun ting prospectively from the date of 
that reassessment for all hedging relationships in which the alternative benchmark rate was designated 
as a non- contractually specified risk component. 
 
In addition to those hedging relationships specified in paragra ph 6.9.1, an entity shall apply the 
requirements in paragraphs 6.9.11 and 6.9.12 to new hedging rel ationships in which an alternative 
benchmark rate is designated as a non-contractually specified risk component (see paragraphs 6.3.7(a) 
and B6.3.8) when, because of interest rate benchmark reform, th at risk component is not separately 
identifiable at the date it is designated. 
 
Effective date 
… 
 
7.1.9 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Phase 2, which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, SLFRS 7, SLFRS 
4 and SLFRS 16, issued in August 2020, added paragraphs 5.4.5 –5.4.9, 6.8.13, Section 6.9 and 
paragraphs 7.2.43–7.2.46. An entity shall apply these amendments for annual perio ds beginning on 
or after 1 January 2021. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies these amendments for an 
earlier period, it shall disclose that fact 
Transition 
… 
 
Transition for Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Phase 2 
 
An entity shall apply Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2 retrospectively in accordance with 
LKAS 8, except as specified in paragraphs 7.2.44–7.2.46. 
 
An entity shall designate a new hedging relationship (for example, as described in paragraph 6.9.13) 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
only prospectively (ie an entity is prohibited from designating  a new hedge accounting relationship 
in prior periods). However, an entity shall reinstate a discont inued hedging relationship if, and only 
if, these conditions are met:
(a) the entity had discontinued that hedging relationship solely due to changes required by interest
rate benchmark reform and the entity would not have been requir ed to discontinue that hedging
relationship if these amendments had been applied at that time; and
(b) at the beginning of the reporting period in which an entity first applies these amendments (date
of initial application of these amendments), that discontinued hedging relationship meets the
qualifying criteria for hedge accounting (after taking into account these amendments)
If, in applying paragraph 7.2.44, an entity reinstates a discon tinued hedging relationship, the entity 
shall read references in paragraph s 6.9.11 and 6.9.12 to the da te the alternative benchmark rate is 
designated as a non- contractually specified risk component for the first time as referring to the date 
of initial application of these amendments (ie the 24-month period for that alternative benchmark rate 
designated as a non-contractually specified risk component begins from the date of initial application 
of these amendments).
An entity is not required to restate prior periods to reflect t he application of these amendments. The 
entity may restate prior periods if, and only if, it is possible without the use of hindsight. If an entity 
does not restate prior periods, the entity shall recognise any difference between the previous carrying 
amount and the carrying amount at the beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date 
of initial application of these amendments in the opening retai ned earnings (or other component of 
equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that inc ludes the date of initial application of 
these amendments.
Amendments to LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
Paragraph 102M is amended. New text is underlined, and deleted text is struck through.
Paragraphs 102O–102Z3 and 108H–108K are added. A heading is added before paragraph 102P 
and subheadings are added before paragraphs 102P, 102V, 102Y and 102Z1. For ease of reading 
these paragraphs have not been underlined.
Temporary exceptions from applying specific hedge accounting requirements
…
End of application
102M An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102G to a hedging relationship at the earlier 
of:
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no longer present with respect
to the hedged risk and the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows
of the hedged item or and of the hedging instrument; and
(b) when the hedging relationship to which the exception is applied is discontinued.
…
102O An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraphs 102 H and 102I at the earlier of:
(a) when changes required by interest rate benchmark reform are made to the non-contractually

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    7A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
specified risk portion applying paragraph 102P;
or
(b) when the hedging relationship in which the non-contractually specified risk portion is designated
is discontinued.
Additional temporary exceptions arising from interest rate benchmark reform
Hedge accounting
102P As and when the requirements in paragraphs 102D –102I cease to apply to a hedging relationship (see 
paragraphs 102J –102O), an entity shall amend the formal designation of that hed ging relationship as 
previously documented to reflect the changes required by intere st rate benchmark reform, ie the changes 
are consistent with the requirements in paragraphs 5.4.6 –5.4.8 of SLFRS 9. In this context, the hedge 
designation shall be amended only to make one or more of these changes:
(a) designating an alternative benchmark rate (contractually or non- contractually specified) as a
hedged risk;
(b) amending the description of the hedged item, including the description of the designated portion
of the cash flows or fair value being hedged;
(c) amending the description of the hedging instrument; or
(d) amending the description of how the entity will assess hedge effectiveness.
102Q An entity also shall apply the requirement in paragraph 102P (c) if these three conditions are met:
(a) the entity makes a change required by interest rate benchmar k reform using an approach other
than changing the basis for determining the contractual cash flows of the hedging instrument (as
described in paragraph 5.4.6 of SLFRS 9;
(b) the original hedging instrument is not derecognised; and
(c) the chosen approach is economically equivalent to changing t he basis for determining the
contractual cash flows of the original hedging instrument (as d escribed in paragraphs 5.4.7 and
5.4.8 of SLFRS 9).
102R The requirements in paragraphs 102D–102I may cease to apply at different times. Therefore, applying 
paragraph 102P, an entity may be required to amend the formal designation ofitshedgingrelationships
atdifferent times, ormayberequiredtoamendtheformaldesignationofa hedgingrelationship more than
once. When, and only when, such a change is made to the hedge designation, an entity shall apply 
paragraphs 102V–102Z2 as applicable. An entity also shall apply paragraph 89 (for a fair value hedge) or
paragraph 96 (for a cash flow hedge) to account for any changes in the fair value of the hedged item
or the hedging instrument.
102S An entity shall amend a hedging relationship as required in paragraph 102P by the end of the reporting 
period during which a change required by interest rate benchmark reform is made to the hedged risk, 
hedged item or hedging instrument. For the avoidance of doubt, such an amendment to the formal 
designation of a hedging relationship constitutes neither the d iscontinuation of the hedging 
relationship nor the designation of a new hedging relationship.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
102T If changes are made in addition to those changes required b y interest rate benchmark reform to the 
financial asset or financial liability designated in a hedging relationship (as described in paragraphs 
5.4.6–5.4.8 of SLFRS 9) or to the designation of the hedging relation ship (as required by paragraph 
102P), an entity shall first apply the applicable requirements in this Standard to determine if those 
additional changes result in the discontinuation of hedge accounting. If the additional changes do not 
result in the discontinuation of hedge accounting, an entity shall amend the formal designation of the 
hedging relationship as specified in paragraph 102P.
102U Paragraphs 102V –102Z3 provide exceptions to the requirements specified in those paragraphs only. 
An entity shall apply all other hedge accounting requirements i n this Standard, including the 
qualifying criteria in paragraph 88, to hedging relationships that were directly affected by interest rate 
benchmark reform.
Accounting for qualifying hedging relationships
Retrospective effectiveness assessment
102V For the purpose of assessing the retrospective effectivenes s of a hedging relationship on a cumulative 
basis applying paragraph 88(e) and only for this purpose, an en tity may elect to reset to zero the 
cumulative fair value changes of the hedged item and hedging in strument when ceasing to apply 
paragraph 102G as required by paragraph 102M. This election is made separately for each hedging 
relationship (ie on an individual hedging relationship basis).
Cash flow hedges
102W For the purpose of applying paragraph 97, at the point when an entity amends the description of a 
hedged item as required in paragraph 102P(b), the cumulative ga in or loss in other comprehensive 
income shall be deemed to be based on the alternative benchmark  rate on which the hedged future 
cash flows are determined.
102X For a discontinued hedging relationship, when the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged future 
cash flows had been based is changed as required by interest rate benchmark reform, for the purpose 
of applying paragraph 101(c) in order to determine whether the hedged future cash flows are expected 
to occur, the amount accumulated in other comprehensive income for that hedging relationship shall 
be deemed to be based on the alternative benchmark rate on which the hedged future cash flows will 
be based.
Groups of items
102Y When an entity applies paragraph 102P to groups of items de signated as hedged items in a fair value 
or cash flow hedge, the entity shall allocate the hedged items to subgroups based on the benchmark 
rate being hedged and designate the benchmark rate as the hedge d  r i s k  f o r  e a c h  s u b g r o u p .  F o r  
example, in a hedging relationship in which a group of items is hedged for changes in an interest rate 
benchmark subject to interest rate benchmark reform, the hedged cash flows or fair value of some 
items in the group could be changed to reference an alternative benchmark rate before other items in 
the group are changed. In this example, in applying paragraph 1 02P, the entity would designate the 
alternative benchmark rate as the hedged risk for that relevant  subgroup of hedged items. The entity 
would continue to designate the existing interest rate benchmar k as the hedged risk for the other 
subgroup of hedged items until the hedged cash flows or fair va lue of those items are changed to 
reference the alternative benchmark rate or the items expire an d are replaced with hedged items that 
reference the alternative benchmark rate.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    9A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
102Z An entity shall assess separately whether each subgroup me ets the requirements in paragraphs 78 and 
83 to be an eligible hedged item. If any subgroup fails to meet the requirements in paragraphs 78 and 
83, the entity shall discontinue hedge accounting prospectively  for the hedging relationship in its 
entirety. An entity also shall apply the requirements in paragr aphs 89 or 96 to account for 
ineffectiveness related to the hedging relationship in its entirety. 
 
Designating financial items as hedged items 
 
102Z1 An alternative benchmark rate designated as a non-contrac tually specified risk portion that is not 
separately identifiable (see paragraphs 81 and AG99F) at the date it is designated shall be deemed to 
have met that requirement at that date, if, and only if, the en tity reasonably expects the alternative 
benchmark rate will be separately identifiable within 24 months. The 24-month period applies to each 
alternative benchmark rate separately and starts from the date the entity designates the alternative 
benchmark rate as a non-contractually specified risk portion for the first time (ie the 24-month period 
applies on a rate-by-rate basis). 
 
102Z2 If subsequently an entity reasonably expects that the alt ernative benchmark rate will not be separately 
identifiable within 24 months from the date the entity designat ed it as a non-contractually specified 
risk portion for the first time, the entity shall cease applyin g the requirement in paragraph 102Z1 to 
that alternative benchmark rate and discontinue hedge accounting prospectively from the date of that 
reassessment for all hedging relationships in which the alternative benchmark rate was designated as 
a non- contractually specified risk portion. 
 
102Z3 In addition to those hedging relationships specified in p aragraph 102P, an entity shall apply the 
requirements in paragraphs 102Z1 and 102Z2 to new hedging relat ionships in which an alternative 
benchmark rate is designated as a non-contractually specified r isk portion (see p aragraphs 81 and 
AG99F) when, because of interest rate benchmark reform, that ri sk portion is not separately 
identifiable at the date it is designated. 
 
Effective date and transition 
... 
 
108H Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2, which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, SLFRS 7, SLFRS 
4 and SLFRS 16, issued in August 2020, added paragraphs 102O –102Z3 and 108I –108K, and 
amended paragraph 102M. An entity shall apply these amendments for annual periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2021. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies these amendments for an 
earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. An entity shall ap ply these amendments retrospectively in 
accordance with LKAS 8, except as specified in paragraphs 108I–108K. 
 
108I An entity shall designate a new hedging relationship (for example, as described in paragraph 102Z3) 
only prospectively (ie an entit y is prohibited from designating  a new hedge accounting relationship 
in prior periods). However, an entity shall reinstate a discont inued hedging relationship if, and only 
if, these conditions are met: 
 
(a) the entity had discontinued that hedging relationship solely du e to changes required by interest 
rate benchmark reform and the entity would not have been requir ed to discontinue that hedging 
relationship if these amendments had been applied at that time; and 
 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
(b) at the beginning of the reporting period in which an entity fir st applies these amendments (date 
of initial application of these amendments), that discontinued hedging relationship meets the 
qualifying criteria for hedge accounting (after taking into account these amendments). 
 
108J If, in applying paragraph 108I, an entity reinstates a dis continued hedging relationship, the entity shall 
read references in paragraphs 102Z1 and 102Z2 to the date the a lternative benchmark rate is 
designated as a non-contractually specified risk portion for th e first time as referring to the date of 
initial application of these amendments (ie the 24-month period  for that alternative benchmark rate 
designated as a non-contractually specified risk portion begins  from the date of initial application of 
these amendments). 
 
108K An entity is not required to restate prior periods to refl ect the application of these amendments. The 
entity may restate prior periods if, and only if, it is possible without the use of hindsight. If an entity 
does not restate prior periods, the entity shall recognise any difference between the previous carrying 
amount and the carrying amount at the beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date 
of initial application of these amendments in the opening retai ned earnings (or other component of 
equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that inc ludes the date of initial application of 
these amendments. 
 
Amendments to SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 
 
Paragraphs 24I–24J and 44GG–44HH are added and a subheading is added before paragraph 24I. 
For ease of reading these paragraphs have not been underlined. 
 
Other disclosures 
... 
 
Additional disclosures related to interest rate benchmark reform 
 
24I To enable users of financial statements to understand the effect of interest rate benchmark reform on 
an entity’s financial instruments and risk management strategy,  an entity shall disclose inform ation 
about: 
 
(a) the nature and extent of risks to which the entity is exposed a rising from financial instruments 
subject to interest rate benchmark reform, and how the entity manages these risks; and 
 
(b) the entity’s progress in completing the transition to alternative benchmark rates, and how the entity 
is managing the transition. 
 
24J To meet the objectives in paragraph 24I, an entity shall di sclose: 
 
(a) how the entity is managing the transition to alternative benchmark rates, its progress at the reporting 
date and the risks to which it is exposed arising from financial instruments because of the transition; 
 
(b) disaggregated by significant interest rate benchmark subject to  interest rate benchmark reform, 
quantitative information about financial instruments that have yet to transition to an alternative 
benchmark rate as at the end of the reporting period, showing separately: 
 
(i) non-derivative financial assets; 
 
(ii) non-derivative financial liabilities; and 
 
(iii) derivatives; and 
 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    11A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
(c) if the risks identified in paragraph 24J(a) have resulted in changes to an entity’s risk management 
strategy (see paragraph 22A), a description of these changes. 
… 
 
Effective date and transition 
  
… 
 
44GG Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2, which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, SLFRS 7, SLFRS 4 and 
SLFRS 16, issued in August 2020, added paragraphs 24I–24J and 44HH. An entity shall apply these 
amendments when it applies the amendments to SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, SLFRS 4 or SLFRS 16. 
 
44HH In the reporting period in which an entity first applies Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2, an 
entity is not required to disclose the information that would o therwise be required by paragraph 28(f) 
of LKAS 8. 
Amendments to SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts 
 
Paragraphs 20R –20S and paragraphs 50 –51 are added. A subheading is added before paragraph 
20R. For ease of reading these paragraphs have not been underlined. 
 
Recognition and measurement   
… 
Changes in the basis for determining the contractual cash flows as a result of interest 
rate benchmark reform 
 
20R An insurer applying the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 sh all apply the requirements in 
paragraphs 5.4.6‒5.4.9 of SLFRS 9 to a financial asset or financial liability if, and only if, the basis for 
determining the contractual cash flows of that financial asset or financial liability changes as a result of 
interest rate benchmark reform. For this purpose, the term ‘interest r ate  benchmark reform’ refers to the 
market-wide reform of an interest rate benchmark as described in paragraph 102B of LKAS 39. 
 
20S For the purpose of applying paragraphs 5.4.6 –5.4.9 of the amendments to SLFRS 9, the references to 
paragraph B5.4.5 of SLFRS 9 shall be read as referring to paragraph AG7 of LKAS 39. References to 
paragraphs 5.4.3 and B5.4.6 of SLFRS 9 shall be read as referring to paragraph AG8 of LKAS 39. 
… 
 
Effective date and transition 
  
… 
 
50 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2, which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, SLFRS 7, SLFRS 4 and 
SLFRS 16, issued in August 2020, added paragraphs 20R –20S and paragraph 51. An entity shall apply 
these amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 Jan uary 2021. Earlier application is 
permitted. If an entity applies these amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. An entity 
shall apply these amendments retrospectively in accordance with  L K A S  8 ,  e x c e p t  a s  s p e c i f i e d  i n  
paragraph 51. 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
51. An entity is not required to restate prior periods to refle ct the application of these amendments. The 
entity may restate prior periods if, and only if, it is possible without the use of hindsight. If an entity 
does not restate prior periods, the entity shall recognise any difference between the previous carrying 
amount and the carrying amount at the beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date 
of initial application of these amendments in the opening retai ned earnings (or other component of 
equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that inc ludes the date of initial application of 
these amendments. 
Amendments to SLFRS 16 Leases 
 
Paragraphs 104–106 and paragraphs C1B and C20C–C20D are added. A heading is added before 
paragraph 104 and a subheading is added before paragraph C20C. For ease of reading these 
paragraphs have not been underlined. 
 
Temporary exception arising from interest rate benchmark reform 
 
104 A lessee shall apply paragraphs 105 –106 to all lease modifications that change the basis for determining 
future lease payments as a result of interest rate benchmark reform (see paragraphs 5.4.6 and 5.4.8 of 
SLFRS 9). These paragraphs apply only to such lease modifications. For this pur pose, the term ‘interest 
rate benchmark reform’ refers to the market-wide reform of an interest rate benchmark as described in 
paragraph 6.8.2 of SLFRS 9 
 
105 As a practical expedient, a lessee shall apply paragraph 42  to account for a lease modification required 
by interest rate benchmark reform. This practical expedient app lies only to such modifications. For 
this purpose, a lease modification is required by interest rate  benchmark reform if, and only if, both 
of these conditions are met: 
 
(a) the modification is necessary as a direct consequence of interest rate benchmark reform; and 
 
(b) the new basis for determining the lease payments is economically equivalent to the previous basis 
(ie the basis immediately preceding the modification) 
 
106 However, if lease modifications are made in addition to tho se lease modifications required by interest 
rate benchmark reform, a lessee shall apply the applicable requ irements in this Standard to account 
for all lease modifications made at the same time, including those required by interest rate benchmark 
reform. 
 … 
 
Effective date 
 
… 
 
C1B Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2, which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, SLFRS 7, SLFRS 
4 and SLFRS 16, issued in August 2020, added paragraphs 104–106 and C20C–C20D. An entity shall 
apply these amendments for annual reporting periods beginning o n or after 1 January 2021. Earlier 
application is permitted. If an entity applies these amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose 
that fact. 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    13A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
Transition
…
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Phase 2
C20C An entity shall apply these amendments retrospectively in a ccordance with LKAS 8, except as 
specified in paragraph C20D
C20D An entity is not required to restate prior periods to refle ct the application of these amendments. The 
entity may restate prior periods if, and only if, it is possibl e without the use of hindsight. If an entity 
does not restate prior periods, the entity shall recognise any difference between the previous carrying 
amount and the carrying amount at the beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date 
of initial application of these amendments in the opening retai ned earnings (or other component of 
equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that inc ludes the date of initial application of 
these amendments
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
(2*