

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 6.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October  26,  2007
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 24th October, 2007]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
MAHANUWARA,  ASGIRIYA,  PALIPANA
SRI CHANDANANDA  INTERNATIONAL
BUDDHIST  RESEARCH  AND
DEVELOPMENT  CENTRE
(INCORPORATION)  ACT,  N O . 52  OF  2007

<!-- page 2 -->

Mahanuwara, Asgiriya, Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2007
1
2 —PL 001851 — 3,300 (03/2007)
[Certified on 24th October, 2007]
L. D. — O. (Inco.) 13/2004
A
N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MAHANUWARA , ASGIRIYA , PALIPANA , SRI
C HANDANANDÀ  INTERNATIONAL  B UDDHIST  RESEARCH  AND
D EVELOPMENT  CENTRE
WHEREAS two Institutions called and known as Palipana,
Sri Chandananda International Buddhist Centre and Palipana
Sri Chandananda Buddhist Research Centre have heretofore
been established in Kandy Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said  Institutions according to the rules
agreed to by their members :
AND WHEREAS the said Institutions have heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which they were established and have applied
to be incorporated, as one institution under the name
“Mahanuwara, Asgiriya, Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development Centre”
and it will be for the public advantage to grant such
application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Mahanuwara, Asgiriya,
Palipana Sri Chandananda International Buddhist Research
and Development Centre (Incorporation)  Act, No. 52 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as are now members of the
“Mahanuwara, Asgiriya, Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development Centre”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”) or shall hereafter be
admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted,
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession, under the name and style
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Mahanuwara
Asgiriya,
Palipana, Sri
Chandananda
International
Buddhist
Research and
Development
Centre.
Short Title.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Mahanuwara, Asgiriya, Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2007
of the “Mahanuwara, Asgiriya, Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development Centre”
and by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
Constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to protect, maintain and develop the library and the
two storeyed Dharma Mandiraya situated at the
Mahanuwara Asgiri Mahaviharaya and the movable
and immovable property affliated thereto ;
(b) to protect, develop and administer all immovable
and movable property which previously belonged
to the Palipana Sri Lanka Chandananda Buddhist
Research Centre and which is presently vested in
the Mahanuwara Asgiriya Palipana Sri
Chandananda International Buddhist Research and
Development Centre;
(c) to train the Buddhist priests and Buddhists for the
expansion of the Buddhist philosophy in Sri Lanka
and abroad; and
(d) to encourage and assist Buddhists to study the
Buddhist philosophy and affiliated subjects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtherance
of its objects or any one of them, including the power to
open, and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise moneys
with or without security, to receive or collect grants or
donations, to invest its funds, and to engage, employ and
dismiss, officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.
General Powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Mahanuwara, Asgiriya, Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2007
3
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, be
administered by a Board of Management. The Board of
Management shall consist of the Chief Incumbent of the
Mahanuwara Asgiriya Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development Centre
(hereinafter referred to as the “Chief Incumbent”) and the
Director, the Secretary and the Treasurer and such other
committee members who may be elected in accordance with
the rules of the Corporation made under section 6.
(2) The Chief Incumbent shall preside at every meeting
of the Board of Management. In the absence of the Chief
Incumbent from any meeting of the Board, the Director shall
preside at such meeting.
(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rules
made thereunder, the Board of Management may regulate
the procedure in regard to its meetings and the transaction of
business at such meetings.
(4) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed
to be invalid by reason only of the existence of a vacancy
among its’ members or any defect in the election or
nomination of a member thereof.
(5) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of Management of
the Institution, holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting at such
meeting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, or any other written law, for the performance of
the duties of the Board and the various officers and servants
of the Corporation, for specifying the procedure to be
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Mahanuwara, Asgiriya, Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2007
followed in the transaction of business at meetings of the
Corporation and of the Board of Management and otherwise
generally, for the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) No rule of the Corporation shall be alteared, added
to, amended or rescinded except by the votes of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting at a general
meeting of the Corporation.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
wheresoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bouns or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
8. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper acounts to be
kept of all the moneys received and expended by the
Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
the Income and Expenditure, Account and the Balance Sheet
shall be certifie by the auditors appointed by the Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Mahanuwara, Asgiriya, Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2007
5
9. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the Institute on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant, gift
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,
and subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation with full power to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation with full power to sell mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Board of Management and it shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of a
member of the Board of Management and the Secretary or
any person authorized by the Board of Management, who
shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence, and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which by its
rules is prohibited from distributing any income or property
among its members.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable to
the institution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Mahanuwara, Asgiriya, Palipana Sri Chandananda
International Buddhist Research and Development
Centre (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2007
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  AVENUE , COLOMBO  05  before  15th  December
  each year in respect of the year following.