

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.03.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1771$18 - 2012 wf.daia;= ui 15 jeks nodod - 2012'08'15
No. 1771/18 - WEDNESDAY  AUGUST   15,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT, No. 14 OF 2008
Notification under Section 3(2)
BY VIRTUE  of the powers vested in me in terms of section 3 (2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 as
amended  I, Basil Rohana Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Development, being the Minister in charge of the subjects of
Investment and Tourism, do by this Notification —
(1) Identify as a  Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid  Act, the Project to construct
and operate a 475 roomed city hotel with 90 Serviced Apartments at No. 116, Galle Road, Colombo 03 in the
Western province with a total investment of United States Dollars One Hundred Fifty Eight Million and
Eight Hundred Ninety Thousand (US$ 158,890,000) as a project of national interest that is likely to bring
economic and social benefit and also to change the landscape of the Country, and further notify that Sinolanka
Hotels and Spa (private) Limited (‘‘Project Company’’) entered into a Project Agreement with the Board of
Investment of Sri lanka on 19th July 2012 ;
(2) Declare that the date of commencement of the project Shall be 19th July 2012 wherein the project Agreement
between the Board of Investment and the Project Company has been executed. The implementation and
commencement of commercial operations of the project shall be within Twenty Four (24) months from the date
of the said project Agreement ;
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act No.
14 of 2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in the Schedule to this Notification shall apply to the project
company.
 SCHEDULE
(a) The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.
(i) The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax
of the Project Company on the profit from the project shall not apply for a period of ten (10) years
(‘‘Tax Exemption Period’’). The tax on dividends distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be
exempted from income tax during the said Tax Exemption Period and one year thereafter.
(ii) The said exemption period to commence from the first year in which the Project Company makes
taxable profit or three (03) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever falls
first.
(iii) After the expiration of the aforesaid tax exemption period referred to above the profits and income
of the Project Company shall be charged at the rate of the lower of six percentum (6%) or one half
of the prevailing tax rate for the hotel industry, for a period of fifteen (15) years immediately
succeeding the last date of the Tax Exemption Period (‘‘Tax Concessionary Period’’).

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2012
2A
(iv) Provided that after the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period and Tax Concessionary
Period referred to above, income tax in respect of the profits and income of the Project Company
shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.
(v) The expatriate staff of the Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Pay As
You Earn Tax (PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the
maximum number of 20 employees. This concession shall be applicable for a period of five years
from the date of commencement of commercial operations. The Project Company shall be required
to gradually replace expatriate staff with local employees on a best efforts basis.
(vi) The Project Company shall be exempt from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following :
(a) on interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure.
(b) on technical fees to consultants.
(c) on management fees, royalty payments and marketing fees, provided these payments
are made to any subsidiary or associate of Hyatt Hotel Corporation, USA including :
Hyatt International South West Asia Ltd
Hyatt International Corporation
Hyatt Chain Services Ltd
International Reservation Ltd
HGP Travel Ltd,
Provided management and royalty fees does not exceed 3% of gross operating revenue,
marketing fees does not exceed 1.5% gross operating revenue and incentive management
fees does not exceed 10% gross operating profits.
(b) The Value Added Tax Act (V AT) No. 14 of 2002
The payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) on the importation of project related goods and the local
purchases of project related goods and services during the Project Implementation Period be fully
exempted from charge and payment of V AT. The V AT exemption shall be applicable not only for direct
supplies to the Company/Project but also supplies made by a sub contractor to a contractor approved
by the Project Company as described and permitted in the V AT Act.
The Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT on value of supply as defined in the V AT Act
No. 14 of 2002 on the Commencement of commercial operations.
(c) The Port and Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The Company shall be exempted from the payment of Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL) on all
items imported for implementing the Project (whether directly imported by the Company or sourced
through contractors) as described and permitted in the Airports Development Levy Act as amended,
during the Project Implementation Period.
(d) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
All imports of project related items required for the Project, whether directly imported by the Project
Company or sourced through contractors provided that the goods are consigned in the name of the
Company shall be exempted from customs duty as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka for
the purpose of the Project during the implementation period.
B
ASIL ROHANA RAJAPAKSA, M.P.
Colombo, Minister of Economic Development.
On this 14th day of August 2012.
08–832
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.