

<!-- page 1 -->

739 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
739
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 742
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 747
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd August, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 20th July, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01st, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,508 _ 2007 °ì¨Ł  27 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .07 .27
No. 1,508 – FRIDAY , JULY 27, 2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,507 of 20.07.2007 was not published.
N. B.- (i) The Rahula College Matara Past Students Association (Colombo Branch) (Incorporation) Bill is published as a
supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22, 2007.
(ii) Sri Piyarathana Community Development and Social Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part
II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22, 2007.
(iii) Hampton Village Sri Lanka Trust (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 06, 2007.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
740
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

741 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
742
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRANINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
REGISTRA TION OF EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS AS LECTURES/INSTRUCTORS 2007/2008 ACADEMIC YEAR
Applications are invited for the registration of External Resource Persons as Lectures/Instructors in the Technical Colleges under this
Department by the Principals of Technical Colleges, indicated in the schedule given as the end of this notice.
02. Specimen Application and list of subjects for which External Resource Persons are required, can be obtain from the Principal of
the Technical College Where you wish to serve by sending him a self addressed stamped envelop (9” x 4”). The top left -hand corner of the
envelop should be marked “External Resource Persons”. These Particulars may also be obtained from the Principals in person.
03. The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 22nd August 2007.
04. General Information for Applicant.
(i) Applicants should note to give all particulars regarding their qualifications and experince in the Educational, Professional and
Technical fields.
(ii) Fees
Fees payable to External Resource Persons vary from Rs.125 to Rs.250 per hour in accordance with their experince,
qualifications and level of the course they are selected to serve.
(Note: These Fees are subjected to be amended)
(iii)Forwarding of Applications
Applications from officers in the Public service should be forwarded through the Heads of their Department/Institutes with
an endorsement by the respective Heads to the effect that their selection of the applicant as external resource persons will not
affects their normal duties.
(iv) Selections
Selections for these registrations will be May subsequent to interviews conducted by the Principals of the respective Colleges.
Preference will be given to applicants with experience in teaching. Please note that the registration can be terminated according
to requirements of the College, by the Principal, without giving any reasons and at any time during the academic Year.
(v) Registered External Resource Persons should conduct internal examinations in their respective subjects.
05. These registration are valid only for without additional  remuneration.
The Acadamic Year 2007/2008 and may be terminated even earlier in accordance with the requirements.
06. If an applicant wishes to apply for more than one subject, separate applications should be sent for each such subject. All
applications should be sent to Principal of the appropriate Technical College under registered cover to reach him before the closing date
specified by him.
Dr. H. L. Obeysekera,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education
and Training
P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 5 -->

743 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
L IST OF TECHNICAL  COLLEGES
Serial Technical College Address District
No.
01 Sri Lanka Technical College Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle Technical College Kaluwella, Galle G alle
03 Kandy Technical College Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna Technical College Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla Technical College Greenland Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
07 Anuradhapura Technical College New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
08 Kurunegala Technical College Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
09 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
10 Ampara Hardy Technical College Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
11 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
12 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
13 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
14 Ratnapura Technical College Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
15 Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuware -Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara - Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Y odha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College Wandaduwa Station Road, Balapitiya G alle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College Wewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College  Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee Technical College Mihindupura, Tricomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technicle College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Medagama Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Techical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya  V avuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Akkaraipattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Puttalam
Anamaduwa
07-577
POSTS OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (LEGAL) IN THE COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF
BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION
Applications are invited from the Citizens of Sri Lanka who possess the required qualifications to fill the vacancies in the post of Assistant
Director (Legal) in the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption All applications should be prepared according to the
specimen form attached hereto and should be reached “The Director General, Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption,
No.36, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 7 "under registered cover on or before 17.08.2007 the words  “Application for the Post of Assistant
Director (Legal)” should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing  the application. (The interview held for the candidates
who applied for the above post according to the government gazette notification No. 1485 dated 15.02.2007 is hereby cancelled.)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
744
01. Salary Scale :
01.1 Monthly Salary scale for this post is :
Rs. 28,095 - 5 x 645- 5 x 750 - 35,270 (salary Code SL5)
02. Eligibility : Every applicant should :
02.1 be a citizen of Sri Lanka
02.2 be of excellent moral character and physically sound.
02.3 be not less than 22 years and not more than 45 years of age as at 17.08.2007 (The maximum age limit will not be applicable
to those employed in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service).
02.4 be an Attorney -at -Law of the Supreme Court with not less than 02 years of experience.
03. Method of Recruitment :
03.1 Selection will be made by duly constituted Interview Board.
03.2 The Public Service Commission reserves the right for recruitment to the post.
04. Conditions of Service :
4.1 Efficiency Bar : An officer appointed to the post is required to pass first Efficiency Bar Examination within three years
from the date of appointment. (The Syllabus for this examination is in Appendix 1)
4.2 The post is permanent and pensionable and should contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans’
Pensions Fund.
4.3 Appointees should comply with the rules and regulations of Public Service Commission, the provisions of the Establishment
Code, Financial Regulations, orders of this Commission and any other rules and regulations imposed by the Government
from time to time.
4.4 The appointment is subject to a 3 year probationary period with effect from the date of appointment. If a permanent Public
Officer is appointed, he/she will be subject  to a period of one year on acting basis.
4.5 An officer appointed for the post should acquire proficiency in the other official language within in a period of five years
from the date of appointment  in addition to the official language through which they enter the service.
05. Candidates who are already employed in Government Department/Boards/Corporation must forward their applications through
the Heads of Departments or Institutions in which they are serving at present.
06. Applicants should furnish following documents when they receive an intimation. None of the certificate should be sent along
with the application :
i. Educational Certificates ;
ii. Certificate of Birth ;
iii.National Identity Card ;
iv. Certificates of experience ; (period of experience should be certified by either an Attorney-at-Law with not less than 10 year
experience in the legal profession or a Judicial Officer.)
v. Two testimonials (one should be from the Grama Niladhari counter signed by the Divisional Secretary).

<!-- page 7 -->

745 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
07. Applications will not be acknowledged. Applications not in conformity with this notice will be rejected without any intimation.
By order of the Public Service commission.
Piyasena Ranasinghe,
Director General,
Commission to Investigate Allegations,
of Bribery or Corruption.
Commission to Investigate,
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption,
36, Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
12th July 2007.
Specimen Application Form
Application for the Post of Assistant Director (Legal) of the
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption
1. i. Name with initials : Mr/Mrs/Miss :—––––––––—.
ii. Name in Full :—––––––––—.
2. Address :
i. Residential Address :—––––––––—.
ii. Official Address :—––––––––—.
(if employed in Public Service) :
3. Date of Birth :
i. Year :                           Month                   Date :
ii. Age as at 17.08.2007,    Years :
                                      Months:                Days:
4. N. I. C. No. :—––––––––—.
5. Ethnicity :—–––––––––––—.
6. Sex :—––––––––––—.
7. i. Educational Qualifications :—––––––––––—.
ii. Professional Qualifications :—–––––––––––—.
iii. Period of Professional experience as at 17.08.2007:
Years :                          Months :                 Dates :
8. Have you ever been dismissed from the Public Service or vacated
from post :—–––––––––––––—.
9. i. Have you ever been convicted from a Court of Law :—––—.
ii. If yes, give details. :—––––––––—.
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this application
are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars contained herein
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification before
the selection or discontinuance after the selection.
—––––––––––—.
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—–––––—.
If the applicant is in the Public Service ;
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss..………... is an employee of this
Department/Board/Corporation. In the event of his/her selection for
appointment he/she can/cannot be released from this Department/
Board/Corporation. (Delete inapplicable words)
—––––––––––—.
Signature of the Head of Department.
Name :––––––––-.
Designation :––––––––-.
Department :––––––––-.
(Official Stamp)
Date : ––––––––-.
Appendix I
Syllabus of the Efficiency Bar Examination
The Effiency Bar Examination will consist with one paper including
the Establishment Code and the Financial Regulations. The paper will
be of three hour duration with 100 marks.
1. The Establishment Code - following chapters : II, VII, XII,
XIII, XVI, XXVIII, XXX, XLVII, XLVIII
2. Financial Regulations - following chapters, I, II, III, IV , V , VI,
VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIII, XIV .
3. Departmental Regulations.- All Circulars, instructions and
Regulations pertaining to the Commission to Investigate
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.
Note .- A candidate will be required to obtain 40 marks for a pass.
07-580

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
746
G OVERNMENT  PRINTING  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Book-binder - Class III - Grade III of Sri Lanka
Printing Service
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for the Posts
of Book-binders - Class III - Grade III of Sri Lanka Printing Service.
The application should be prepared as per the Specimen Application
Form which appears at the end of this notification and be sent by
registered post. addressed to “Government Printer, Government
Printing Department, P. O. Box 507, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Colombo 08” so as to reach on or before 27.08.2007. The version
“Post of Book-binder” should be marked at the top left hand corner
of the Envelope, bearing the application.
Note :(a) The furnished application or related documents should
be sent addressed only to the Government Printer and
not to the name of any officer, individually.
(b) Complaints made, regarding the loss or delay caused in
the course of sending the application by post, will not be
considered.
(c) Applicants who are presently employed in Government
Departments or Corporations should send their
applications through the Heads of their respective
Departments/Corporations.
2. Salary Scale.– The consolidated annual salary for this post will
be Rs. 1,73,040 - 10 x 1,680 - 11 x 1,800 - 6 x 2,520 - 14 x 3,480 -
Rs. 2,73,480.
3. Age limit.– Applicants should not be less than 18 years of age
and not above 45 years of age on 27.08.2007.
Note.– This upper age limit is not applicable to those applicants
who are presently employed in pubilc service.
4. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(a) Should possess not less than 10 years experience as
minimum, in Book-binding at a recognised institution. (In
this regard apprenticeship period too can be included) ;
or
(b) Should have completed a Three-year course in Book-
binding conducted by Sri Lanka Technical College and
possess the relevant certificate, coupled with 5 years
experience as a Book-binder at a recognised institution.
5. Conditions of Appointment.– The post is permanent and
pensionable. The selected applicant should contribute for the
Widows’ and Orphans’ Fund.
6. General Conditions applicable.– Selection 12.1 and sections
12.6 to 12.12 in chapter 11 of Establishment Code will be applicable.
7. Mode of Recruitment.– The applicants will be subjected to an
interview as well as apractical test which will be conducted by a
well-organised selection board. Eventually, those applicants who
will have obtained more qualifications will be recruited according to
the vacancies.
8. The attention of applicants is directed to the ‘General Conditions
applicable to Appointments in Public Services’ which appears at
the beginning of Part I Section (IIA) of this gazette.
Lakshman Goonawardena,
Government Printer.
Government Printing Department,
P. O. Box 507,
No. 118, Dr. Danister de Silva Mawatha,
Colombo 08.
Specimen Application Form
G
OVERNMENT  PRINTING  DEPARTMENT
Post of Book-binder - Class III - Grade III of Sri Lanka Printing
Service
01. (a) Name in Full :————.
(b) Name with Initials :————.
02. (a) Postal Address :————.
(b) Permanent Address :————.
03. District :————.
04. (a) Date of Birth :
Year :                            Month :                  Date :
(b) Age as at 27.08.2007 :    Years :
Months :                   Days :
05. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :————.
06. Educational and other qualifications :
(Copies of certificates should be annexed)
Name of Examination Subjects Passes obtained
07. V ocational qualifications : ––––––––––––.
(The originals of certificates should be submitted at the interview)
08. Present employment :————.
(With the name and address of the employer)

<!-- page 9 -->

747 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
09. Details of Experience in this field :
Institution Post Period of service
From To
10. Have you even been convicted of a punishable offence by any
court of law ? :————.
If yes, explain the nature of such offence and punishment
thereto :————.
I hereby declare, that the foregoing particulars given by me are
true and correct. I am aware that if any particular contained herein
are found to be false or incorrect. I will be liable to be disqualified
before selection and to dismissal without any compensation if the
inaccuracy is detected offer the appointment.
——––––——,
Signature of Applicant.
NOTARIES FINAL EXAMINATION HELD IN
NOVEMBER – 2006
IT is hereby notified that the following candidates have passed the
Notaries Final Examination of Notaries to act as Notaries Public in
the languages shown alongside their names :
1. Mr. G. A. Premaratne - Sinhala
2. Mr. A. T. Gunawardana - Sinhala
3. Mr. K. M. P. P . Gunasekara - Sinhala
4. Mr. J. Aski - Sinhala
5. Mr. D. M. K. B. Dissanayaka - Sinhala
6. Mr. H. M. Srilal Silva - Sinhala
7. Mr. R. M. Ratnayaka - Sinhala
8. Mrs. U. S. R. Weerakkody - Sinhala
9. Mr. M. Y . L. M. A. Carder - T amil
10. Mr. A. M. M. Subair - T amil
11. Mrs. R. A. E. N. Rupasinghe - Sinhala
12. Mr. M. Izadin - T amil
13. Mr. M. S. M. Roomi - T amil
14. Mr. S. R. Podi Ralahami - Sinhala
15. Mrs. R. M. S. Perera - Sinhala
16. Mrs. G. S. S. Fernando - Sinhala
17. Mrs. W. D. Jayawardana - Sinhala
18. Mrs. V . P . W. Lakmali - Sinhala
19. Mrs. T. P . V . F. Fernando - Sinhala
20. Mr. P. L. Somasiri - Sinhala
21. Mr. M. S. Najeem - T amil
22. Mrs. H. D. L. Fernando - Sinhala
23. Mr. M. L. Aliyar - Sinhala
24. Mr. B. A. Lokubanda - Sinhala
25. Mr. S. M. Gayan Indika - Sinhala
26. Mrs. M. M. M. J. M. Bogamuwa - Sinhala
27. Mr. D. M. U. T. B. Dissanayaka - Sinhala
28. Mr. M. A. Fernando - Sinhala
29. Mrs. S. M. U. Senadhipathi - Sinhala
30. Mr. B. M. Tikiribanda - Sinhala
31. Mrs. E. A. Ravindra Perera - Sinhala
32. Mr. S. Muthukumaraswami - T amil
L. K. RATNASIRI ,
Registrar General
Registrar General’s Department,
Colombo 11.
11
th July 2007.
07-561
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
(SLIATE)
ADV ANCED TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE -
COLOMBO 15
A DMISSION  OF STUDENTS  to THE  HIGHER  NATIONAL  DIPLOMA  IN
E NGINEERING  (HNDE) COURSE  ACADEMIC  YEAR  – 2007/2008
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified persons for
admission to the above course.
Higher National Diploma in Engineering is a full-time English
medium course of three-year duration of theory and six months in
plant training and is offered in three areas of specialization, namely
Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering. Those who follow this
course can qualify for exemption from CEI (London) Part-1
examination by getting a number of merits specified by the London
Engineering Council.
Date :————.
Certificate of Head of Department/Corporation
(If the applicant is employed in a Government Department/
Corporation the application should be forwarded through the Head
of respective Department/Corporation)
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………… is employed in
this Department/Corporation. His/Her works and conduct are quite
satisfactory and he/she is possessing the necessary qualification for
this post as mentioned in the notification. I state that he/she can be/
cannot be released from present service, if selected to the post applied.
———––––––—,
Signature of Head of Department/
Corporation Authorized Officer.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
07–601
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
748
The candidates for admission should fulfil the following eligibility
requirements if he/she is to be considered for enrolment :
(1) That he/she is a citizen of Sri Lanka
(2) i. Have four passes at one and the same sitting in the
following subjects at the G. C. E. (A./L) (old syllabus)
Examination conducted by the Commissioner of
Examinations, Sri Lanka in or before 2006.
(a) Applied Mathematics
(b) Pure Mathematics
(c) Physics
(d) Chemistry
ii. Those who followed the G. C. E. (A/L) (New Syllabus)
conducted by the Commissioner of Examinations, Sri
Lanka in or before 2006 must possess at least three passes
in Combined Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics in one
sitting.
(3) A pass in English Language at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
Preference will be given to applicants below 23 years of age as at
the closing date of applications.
The selection criteria is based on the average marks or Z - score at
the G. C. E. (A./L) Examination.
The selected candidates should attend classes during weekdays as
well as on certain days during weekends, if the necessity arises.
Prospective candidates are required to prepare their own
applications in accordance with the specimen application form given
below.
Please credit the application fee is Rs. 250 to Sri Lanka Institute
of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) to the Current
Account No. 025100133397613 at people’s bank, Hyde Park Corner
Branch, or any other branch of the People’s Bank in Sri Lanka and
send the receipt along with the application.
Duly perfected applications should be sent under Registered cover
to reach the Director, Advanced Technological Institute. No. 42,
Rodrigo Place, Mattakkuliya, Colombo 15 on or before 17.08.2007.
Candidates are required to write “Application for Admission to
HNDE course 2007/2008” in block capital letters on the top left-
hand corner of the envelope. Applications which don’t meet the
above requirement will be rejected.
Persons who are following course of study as an intenal student at
any University in Sri Lanka/Affiliated University College/Technical
College, College of Education/Teacher Training College or any other
Advanced Technological Institute will not be eligible to register as a
full time student  in the Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological
Education. Please note that if any student is found to be following a
full time course at any other state institutes concurrently, his/her
registration will be cancelled by the Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced
Technological Education with immediate effect.
Please note that the decision of the Director General, SLIATE will be
the final decision on the admission of students to ATI, Mattakkuliya
for the Academic Year 2007/2008.
H. T. K
AMAL  PATHMASIRI ,
Director General.
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education,
No. 18/2, Ward Place,
Colombo 07.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF ADV ANCED
TECHNOLOGICAL EDUCATION (SLIATE)
Advanced Technological Institute - Colombo 15
Admission of Students to the higher National Diploma in
Engineering (HNDE) Course Academic Y ear - 2007/2008
01. Name with initials :
02. Names denoted by initials :
03. National Identity Card No. :
04. Date of Birth 05. Sex :     Male   Female
06. Permanent Address : 07. Administrative District :
(within the box below)
08. Field of Engineering in order of preference :
1st Preference
2nd Preference
3rd Preference
09. Result for English Language at the G. C. E. (O/L) :
Year Index No. Grade

<!-- page 11 -->

749 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2007
10. Result of the Best Attempt at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (on or before 2006) :
Old syllabus New syllabus
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. Pure Mathematics 1. Combined Mathematics
2. Applied Mathematics 2. Physics
3. Physics 3. Chemistry
4. Chemistry 4. Common General Test
Aggregate Marks/ Z-score Aggregate Marks/ Z-score
Y ear Syllabus Index No. Medium
Old  New
Attempt 1st 2nd 3rd
I hereby declare that I am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution. I am aware that my
registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that I concurrently follow a full-time course at any other
state institution. I certify that the information furnished herein is true and accurate to  the best of my knowledge.
Date :————. .....................................
Signature of Applicant.
(The Bank receipt for Rs. 250/- should be annexed)
07-628
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.