

<!-- page 1 -->

SAREERAM  SRI  LANKA  NATIONAL
FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.  1  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 10th February, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 1999
Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
   PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Internet Version

<!-- page 2 -->

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 1999
1
[Certified on 10th February, 1999]
L.D.–O.28/96.
A N   ACT  TO   INCORPORATE   THE   SAREERAM   SRI  LANKA
N ATIONAL   FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association Called and Known as the
“Sareeram  Sri Lanka National Foundation” has heretofore
been formed at Thalankudah, Araipattai, Batticaloa District
for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Association
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
succesfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1. This Act  may be cited as the Sareeram Sri Lanka National
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
Such and so many persons as now are members of the
Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation (hereinafter referred
to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession, under the named and
style of the “Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that name
may sue, and sued in all courts, with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and to change and alter the
same at its  pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Sareeram
Sri Lanka
National
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 1999
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be–
(a) To maintain peace and harmony among all the
communities ;
(b) to promote the eradication, racial, linguistic,
religious, political and communal differences among
the people ;
(c) to promote the establishment of a society uniting
the different religious, cultural and economic
groups ;
(d) to bring the poor and other affected people into the
“Awareness Scheme” and encourage them to engage
in self employment programmes :
(e) to encourage and accelerate savings among the
people in rural areas ;
(f)to create awareness in the public, about the
importance of school education, health education
and environmental education ; and
(g) to do all such other acts and things as are incidental
or conducive to the attainment of the above objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written Law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation, or any one
of them, including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys, with or without security
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,
and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
General Objects
of the
Corporation.
General Powers of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 1999
3
5. (1) the affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by  a committee of Management consisting of
the president, the secretary and the treasurer of the
Corporation and not less than sixteen other persons to be
elected in accordance with the rules in force for the time being
of  the Corporation.
(2) The first Committee of Management of the
Corporation shall consist of the members of the Committee of
Management of the Foundation holding office on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, and whose
names are specified in the Schedule to this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at an annual general meeting or at any general meeting
of the members summoned for that purpose with two weeks’
notice and by a majority of votes not less than two-thirds of
the members present and voting, to make rules, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any other
written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of
members of the Corporation, for the election of office bearers
and the Committee of Management, for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of the business by the Committee
of Managment, and otherwise generally, for the management
of the affairs of the Corporation and for the accomplishment
of its objects. Such rules when made may at a like meeting
and in like manner, be altered, added, amended or rescinded.
(2) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted, and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 1999
4
8. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property, movable or immovable, which may become vested
in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to
the rules inforce for the time being of the Corporation with full
power to mortgage, sell, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to  any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the president
and such number of persons as may be provided for in  the
rules of the corporation, who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or corporate,or
of any other persons,except such as are mentioned in this Act
and those  claiming by, from,or under, them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Corporation may
hold movable or
immovable
property.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Savings of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

Sareeram Sri Lanka National Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 1999
5
SCHEDULE [Section 5(2)]
President Mr. A. Logeswaran
Vice Presidents : Mr. A. Sivalingam
Mrs. L. Ananthy
Mr. M. Kasipillai
General Secretary : Mr. K. Vanniyasingam
Additional Secretaries : Mr. A. Krisnamoorthy
Mr. M. Pusparaj
Mr. M. Suntharalingam
Treasurer : Mr.  K.  Vellaisamy
Executive Members : Mr. S.K.  Ponnampalam
Mr. V. Jesudasan
Mr. T.Baptist
Mr. K. Linkaraj
Miss T. Shiyamala
Mr. T. Sittampalam
Miss N. Nishiyanthy
Miss M.  Dilani
Advisery : Mr. K. Thangarajah
Mr. R. Thurairajasingam
Mr. G. Radhakrishnam

<!-- page 7 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.