

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1869
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"033 – 2017 wf.daia;= ui 18 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'08'18
No. 2,033 –  fRiday ,  august  18, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th september, 2017 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th august, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer (Acting)
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1867-B 81199- 5,403 (08/2017)
N. B.–  sukyo Mahikari sri Lanka (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of august 04, 2017.
N. B.-   the List of Jurors in Kurunegala and Kuliyapitiya Jurisdiction areas in year 2nd 2017 has been published in              
Part Vi of this Gazette in all three Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.08.2017
1868
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.08.2017
1869
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
TELECOmmuNICATIONS   REGuLATORy  
COmmISSION   Of   SRI   LANkA   (TRCSL)
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio 
Operator’s License by the TRCSL - 2017
1. CATeGoRieS of Amateur Radio operator’ s License :
(a) amateur Radio operator’s advance class License,
(b) amateur Radio operator’s general class License,
(c) amateur Radio operator’s Novice class License.
2. Minimum entry Requirements.– Every candidate 
entering for the examination must be fourteen (14) years of 
age or over on the closing date of applications.
3. Scheme of examination :
 (a)  Advance Class.– the examination consists of two 
parts :
  Part 1:- two (2) compulsory written papers to be 
undertaken at one sitting :
Paper i - advance Electrical technology and 
Radio communications (3 hours) ;
Paper ii - Licensing conditions, operating 
Practices and Procedures (2 hours).
  Part 2 :- Practical Morse code test(05 words per 
minute).
 (b)  General Class.– the examination consists of two 
parts. two (2) compulsory written papers to be 
undertaken at one sitting :
Paper i - fundamentals of Electricity and 
Radio communications (2 hours) ;
Paper ii - Licensing conditions, operating 
Practices and Procedures (1hour).
 (c)  Novice Class.– the examination consists of two 
parts. two (2) compulsory written papers to be 
undertaken at one sitting :
Paper 1 - Basic Electricity, Radio and 
Electronic theory (2 hours) ;
Paper ii - Licensing conditions, operating 
Practices and Procedures (1 hour).
4. Conditions of examinations .– the following 
conditions shall apply to all categories of amateur Radio 
License Examinations :
 (i) to pass the examination, the candidates should 
pass all papers of the examination.
 (ii) candidates must pass the two (2) written papers 
of the examination at the same sitting.
 (iii) only those candidates who pass Part 1 of the 
examination will be allowed to appear for Part 
2 (Morse test) in case of advance class.
 
5. Medium of examination.– the examination will be 
conducted in English Medium only.
6. examination Fees.– applicants who conform to 
the requirements of the examination are required to remit 
the examination fees mentioned in this notification to 
the "telecommunications Regulatory commission of sri 
Lanka". if further information in this regard is required, the 
applicants are requested to write to the tRcsL.
the examination fee is payable either by a money order 
or a pay order/draft from any Bank drawn in the name of 
the "telecommunications Regulatory commission of sri 
Lanka". the entry form must be sent by recorded delivery 
on registered post or delivered by hand. Official receipts 
must be retained as tRcsL will not consider any claim that 
form has been overlooked or lost unless proof of posting of 
delivery is produced.
fees are not refundable  or cannot be transferred from 
one examination to another at a later date. any candidate 
who withdraws his application or cannot appear for the 
examination due to any reason whatsoever will be required 
to pay approximate examination fee for any subsequent 
entry.
 Category of  Fee for Fee for  
 examination Part 1 Part 2
advance class 276.00 138.00
general class 138.00 -
Novice class 138.00 -
Note.– Plus all government taxes and Lavy. 
7. Closing Date of Application .– the examination 
will be held once a year. the date of examination will 
be informed by the commissioner of Examinations. 
applications must be made on the appropriate entry form 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.08.2017
1870
obtained from the under mentioned office, completed, 
and submitted to the address given below on or before the 
closing date mentioned below :–
director general,
tRcsL,
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
colombo 08.
 Category of License Last Date of entry
advance class 
general class 08.09.2017
Novice class
 
8. Attestation.– candidate's signature must be attested 
by one of the following :
a Justice of Peace, commissioner of oaths, an attorney-
at-Law and Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the 
Army, Navy or Air Force, Gazetted Officer of the Police, 
a person holding a permanent post in the state service 
drawing a consolidated salary of not less than Rs. 493,920 
per annum. all other applications will be rejected.
9. Identification of Candidates.– a candidate will be 
required to prove his/her identity in the examination and 
for this purpose any of the following documents will be 
accepted :
 (a) a  valid identity card issued by the Postmaster - 
general ;
 (b) a  valid Passport ;
 (c) an identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons.
all candidates are required to act in conformity with the 
Provisions of the Examination act, No.25 of 1968.
any matters which has not been provided for under 
these Rules and Regulations will be settled at the discretion 
of the director-general of telecommunications.
 director general,
 tRcsL.
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
colombo 08,
24th July, 2017. 
08-595
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.