

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
1A
wxl 1800$22 - 2013 ud¾;= ui 06 jeks nodod - 2013'03'06
No. 1800/22  - WEDNESDAY ,  MARCH 06,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
THE  SERVICE  MINUTE  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  SURVEY  FIELD ASSISTANTS’  SERVICE
WITHOUT prejudice to any measure taken, in terms of the service minute of the Sri Lanka Survey Field Assistants’ Service
published by Gazette No. 692/4 and Extraordinary Gazette dated 11.12.1991 of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
and the amendments made to it from time to time or any measure suppose to have been taken under that, following mentioned
service minute of the Sri Lanka Survey field Assistants’ Service is substituted.
In terms of the order of public service commission.
S. M. W. FERNANDO,
Survey General.
Sri Lanka Survey Department,
No. 150, Kirula Road,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
01. Effective date : This Service minute should be effective from the date 01.01.2012.
02. Appointing Authority : “Surveyor General, the delegated authority of the public service commission.
03. Particulars on the category of service.
3.1 Catetory of service : Primary - Semi Skill
3.2 Grades : III, II, I and Special Grade.
04. Role .- Duties entrusted : This employee category is assisgned needed tasks, technical skills/proficiencies not
less than second or third level of National V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q) as decided by the Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission among the tasks such as construction, maintain and repair relevant to provide basic facilities needed
for maintaining and performing the tasks of the institution. The persons holding the posts in this service shall perform the
duties specifically assigned to each post by the Appointing Authority, in relation to the work assigned to him.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .03.06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
2A
05. Salaries.
5.1 Salary Code No. : PL 2 - 2006 (A) ;
5.2 Salary Scale : Rs. 12,210 - 10 x 130 - 10 x 145 - 10 x 160 - 12 x 170 - 18,600
5.3 Initial Salary Step relevant to the Grade System :
Grade Salary Step Salary point (Rs.)
III 01 12,210
II 12 13,655
I 22 15,120
Special 32 16,730
06. Posts Under the Service :
6.1 Approved Posts and the number of approved posts :
Approved Posts Number of
Approved Posts Functions
Survey Field Assistant - Special 163 Please see appendix “a”
Survey Field Assistant - I 809
Survey Field Assistant - II 1561
Survey Field Assistant - III 1621
Grant Total 4154
6.2 No. of Combined Officers : 4154
For the task of promotion from Grade to Grade all I, II, III and special grades are considered belonging to the
No. of combined Officers.
6.3 Nature of the Post - Permanent and Pensionable.
6.4 Sri Lanka Survey Field Assistants’ Service consists of the Public Servants absorbed or appointed to each
grade separately for the service in the Departments referred to in the appendix “b”.
Note : Duties are not assigned according to grades, among the due duties of the relevant postunder this employee category,
any duty can be assigned to an employee of any grade based on the seniority and skill on the necessity of service by the head
of the institution.
07. Method of Recuritment
7.1 Ratio of recruitment :
Stream Percentage
Open 100%
Limited -
Merit -
7.2 Open Recruitment
7.2.1 Recruitment Grade : Grade III

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
3A
7.2.2 Qualifications :
7.2.2.1 Education Qualifications : Should have passed 06 subjects with at least two credi not more than in two
attempts at the G .C.E. (O/L) examination.
7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications : Should have obtained minimum proficiency of second level of National
V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q) as decided by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission as
assigned to the relevant post.
7.2.2.2.1 Minimum skills
(I) Assist in understanding of the surveying field
(II) Protection and maintenance of surveying instrument and equipment
7.2.2.3 Experience : Not applicable
7.2.2.4 Physical Fitness : All candicates should be Physically and mentally fit in all respects to serve in any part
of Sri Lanka and to perform duties of the post.
7.2.2.5 Other :
(I) Should be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(II) Should be of excellent moral character ;
(III) Should have fulfilled necessary qualifications in every manner up to 7.2.3. for appointment to the
post on the date mentioned in Gazette notification / notice of calling for applications.
7.2.3 Age :
7.2.3.1 Minimum age limit : 18 years
7.2.3.2 Maximum age limit : 45 years
Maximum age limit is not applicable for a person who holds a permanent post in Government service.
7.2.4 Method of Recruitment :
(I) An interview board comprising of three executive Grade Officers including Chairman appointed by
Surveyor General and written examination conducted by him, applicants will be recruited as Grade III
Survey Field Assistants only according to the marks scored by them at the written examination  in
order of merit, interview will be held only to check the certificates whether proved the qualifications of
the applicant.
(II) The Apprentice Survey Field Assistants recruited will be given one month theoretical and filed training
by the Training Institute of the Survey Department.
7.2.4.1 Written Examination
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
General Knowledge 100 40
Intelligence Test 100 40
(Please see appendix “c” for syllabus)

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .03.06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
4A
7.2.5 Method of calling applications : Applications are invited through notification in the Government Gazette
or by public and web site notices.
7.3 Limited Recruitment : Not applicable
7.4 Recruitment on merit : Not applicable
08. Efficiency Bar
8.1
Which efficiency Bar How many years does it take to over Nature of the efficiency Bar
is applicable step efficiency bar Written/Certificate Courses/
Others
1st Efficiency Bar Before the expiry of 3 years from the Practical test about skills
recruitment to the Grade III (Please see appendix “d”)
2nd Efficiency Bar Before the expiry of 3 years from the W ritten Examination
promotion to Grade II (Please see appendix “e”)
3rd Efficiency Bar Before expiry of 05 years from the Oral test
promotion to Grade I (Please see appendix “f”)
8.2 How often examinations are held ? Efficiency Bar examinations will be held twice a year.
8.3 The authorities who are conducting examinations relating to Efficiency Bars :
The Surveyor General.
09. Proficiency in the official Language
9.1
Language Proficiency to be acquired
Official Language The officers who were recruited to service by a non Official Language  should
be obtained relevant language proficiency within the probation period.
Other Official Language Should be obtained prescribed level language proficiency in terms of Public
Administraion circular 07/2007, and circulars incidental to it.
10. Promotion to Grades
10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II
10.1.1 According to normal performance
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be completed :
(i) Should have been confirmed in the post ;
(ii) Should have completed an active and satisfactory minimum period of ten (10) years service in Grade
III of employee category and should have earnerd ten (10) increments ;
(iii) Sh ould have demonstrated satisfactory performance or above the required level in service during the
preceding ten (10) years on the date of promotion in terms of the approved of Performance Appraisal
scheme ;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
5A
(iv) Should have completed five (05) years satisfactory service immediately preceding the date of
promotion ;
(v) Should have achieved the necessary level of proficiency in Other Official Language ;
(vi) Should have successfully completed the due Efficiency Bar Examinations on the due date.
10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion
The employees who have fulfilled the requirements shall submit an application in the appropriate form to
the Appointing Auhority, requesting for promotion from Grade III to Grade II. Then, the Appointing
Authority, having verified the qualifications, will promote the qualified employees to Grade II, with effect
from the date on which they qualify for promotion.
10.1.2 According to extraordinary performance
10.1.2.1 Qualifications to be completed :
(i) Should have been confirmed in the post ;
(ii) Should have completed an active an satisfactory minimum period of six (06) Years service in Grade II
of employee category and should have earned six (06) increments on the due date ;
(iii) Should have demonstrated extraoridnary performance  in service during the preceding all six  (06)
years  in terms of the approved of Performance Appraisal scheme ;
(iv) Should have completed five (05) years satisfactory service period immediately preceding the date of
promotion ;
(v) Should have passed the prescribed Efficiency Bar Examinations on the due date ;
(vi) Should have achieved the necessary level of proficiency in Other Official Language during the
relevant period.
10.1.2.2 Method of Promotion
The employees who have fulfilled the above qualification can sit for a written aptitude test conducted by
an institution approved by the Appointing Authority. Those who pass on the results of Written Aptitude
test conducted by the appointing Authority shall submit an application in the appropriated form to the
Appointing Authority requesting for promotion. The Appointing Authority, verified the qualifications,
will promote the employees who have fulfilled the other requirements, to Grade II on completion of six (06)
years from the date of appointment.
Note :
* In granting promotions under extraordinary performance a candidate has to score a minimum
of 60% of marks to pass the examination. Further, the promotional examination under
extraordinary performance will be held once in a year and an officer can sit this examination
only once.
* If an officer, for special reasons beyond his control, fails to sit the promotional examination
under extraordinary performance on the due date, he can sit the aptitude test conducted later.
The date of promotion under the extraoridnary performance of such officer will be the date on
which he passed the examination.
(Please see apendix “g” for syllabus of aptitude test)

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .03.06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
6A
10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1 According to normal performance
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be completed :
(i) Should have completed an nine active and satisfactory minimum period of (09) Years service in Grade
II of employee category and should have earned nine (09) increments due for the said period ;
(ii) Should have completed five (05) years satisfactory service immediately preceding the date
promotion ;
(iii) Sh ould have demonstrated satisfactory performance or above the required level in service during the
preceding nine (09) years on the date of promotion in terms of the approved Performance Appraisal
scheme ;
(iv) Should have successfully completed the due Efficiency Bar examinations on the due date.
10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion
The officers who have fulfilled the requirements shall submit an application in the appropriate form to the
Appointing Auhority, requesting for promotion. Then, Appointing Authority, having verified the
qualifications, will promote the qualified employees from Grade II to Grade I with effect from the date on
which they qualify for promotion.
10.2.2 According to exceptional performance
10.2.2.1 Qualifications to be completed :
(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory minimum period of eight (08) years service in
Grade II of employee category and should have earned eight (08) increments due for the said
period ;
(ii) Should have completed five (05) years satisfactory service immediately preceding the date  of
promotion ;
(iii) Should have demonstrated extraordinary performance  in service during the preceding all eight  (08)
years  in terms of the approved of Performance Appraisal scheme ;
(iv) Should have passed the prescribed Efficiency Bar Examinations on the due date.
Remarks
Until introduced and implement a methodology to evaluate the extraordinary performance by the Government, the officers
who have demonstrated level of satisfactory or above performance according to the current scheme of Performance Appraisal
at the annual performance evaluation. Such officers will be given opportunity to sit the written aptitude test/ structured
interview for promotion under extraordinary performance.
10.2.2.2 Method of Promotion :
An structured interview will be held by the Appointing Authority for the employees who have fulfilled
the qualifications and the employees who scored not less than 50% or above on the results of the same
structured interview, Appointing Authority, will promote to Grade I with effect from the date of which
completing eight (08) years from the date of promotion to Grade II.
Please see appendix “i” for the marking scheme of the structured interview.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
7A
10.3 Promotion from Grade I to Special Grade :
10.3.1 Qualifications to be completed :
(i) Should have completed minimum  active and satisfactory nine (09) years service in Grade I of
employee category and should have earned nine (09) increments ;
(ii) Should have completed five (05) years satisfactory service immediately before the date of
promotion ;
(iii) Should have demonstrated satisfactory performance  or above the required level in service during
the all nine (09) years in terms of the approved Performance Appraisal scheme preceding the date of
promotion ;
(iv) Sh ould have successfully completed the due Efficiency Bar Examinations to the relevant date.
10.3.2 Method of Promotion :
The Officers who have fulfilled the requirements shall submit an application in the appropriate form to the
Appointing Authority, requesting for promotion. Then, Appointing Authority, having verified the
qualifications, shall promote the qualified employees to Special Grade with effect from the date on which
they qualify for promotion.
11. Appointment to the posts :
11.1
Post Qualifications
Special Grade Survey Overseer of Survey Field Special Grade Officer of Survey Field Assistants’
Assistants’ service service
11.2 Method of Selection : Should be an officer of Special Grade Survey Overseer of Survey Field Assistants’
service will be appointed to the Survey overseer posts on seniority according to the
existing vacanceis.
12. Conditions prescribed for the service
12.1 Every appointment encompasses the conditions set out in the procedural rules of the public service
commission published by the extraordinary Gazette  No. 1589/30 of 20.02.2009 and provisions of the
establishment code, financial regulation and Departmental Orders
12.2 Any matter not provided for in this scheme of recruitment will be decided upon by the public service
commission.
13. Interpretations and Definitions :
13.1 “Service Minute” means, the Minute of the Sri Lanka Survey Field Assistants’ Service.
13.2 “Service” means, the Sri Lanka Survey Field Assistants’ Service.
13.3 “Surveyor General” means, the officer who holds the post of Surveyor General for the time being or acts in
the post.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .03.06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
8A
13.4 “Date of implementation” means, the date on which this minute comes into force.
13.5 “Active Service Period” means, an officer receiving salaries relevant to the post of  him, actually served
period service in the duty excluding the pregnancy leave granted on Government Policy, other all no-pay
leave periods will not be counted for the active service period.
13.6 “Period of Satisfactory service” means, a period during which a public Officer has earned all the salary
increments due to him by efficient and diligent discharge of his duties, by passing over the efficiency bars
due on him on the prescribed dates and by fulfilling the qualifications required for his conformation and has
not committed any punishable offence.
13.7 “Due Date” means, the date on which the respective efficiency bar is due to be passed over. In grade
promotions the officers who pass over the efficiency bar on or before the due date are entitled to have
promotions as set out in schemes of recruitment. The date of promotion of officer who do not pass over  their
efficiency bars on the due date should be deferred by a period equivalent to the amount of time they spent
being be lated for passing over of such efficiency bar.
e.g. : Where an efficiency bar passable within 3 years is met with success in 4 years, the promotion due in 10
years will take effect only after 11 years.
14. Absorption to the grade system
Methodology of Absorption of officers in service to the new system of grades is at appendix “h”.
15. Interim provisions : Not applicable.
Appendix “a”
General functions of Survey Field Assistants.
(i) To assist the surveyor in drawing the sketch pertaining to the survey ;
(ii) Preparing survey lines by means of field books and plans, enabling to observe the old boundaries ;
(iii) Setting out and opening of relevant pickets and land marks of the old boundaries in the field pertaining to the
survey.
(iv) To assist the surveyor for the duties of finding and setting out bench marks pertaining to the survey ;
(v) To assist to maintain and protect the instruments used in the field ;
(vi) Positioning of G.P .S. instruments at the surveying points in the field for surveys carried out by means of
satellite technology, including the odalites, levels and new electronic total stations ;
(vii) Assisting to all the functions relating to the positioning of geodetic control points needed for the aerial
photography ;
(viii) To assist to collect surveying data, and to duly maintain targets and indexes required to determine the
locations and level of all the places taken in surveys ;
(ix) To establish land marks and benchmarks in the field by us ing accurate data ;
(x) By using data in the  field books and tracings, fixing boundary marks pertaining to the  blocking out of lands
to be done primarily ;
(xi) To engage in any duty in relation to the land survey assigned by the Surveyor General or his representative.
(xii) In addition to the above functions, the persons who holding the posts of overseers of the Survey Field
Assistant grade are assigned to supervice the functions of other Survey field Assistants.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
9A
Appendix “B”
Departments that belongs to Sri Lanka Survey Field Assistants.
1. Survey Department of Sri Lanka.
2. Land Commissioners’ Department.
3. Sri Lanka Railway Department.
Appendix “c”
01. Name of the Examination : Open Competitive Examination to recruitment to Grade III
02. Details of the Examination :
Question paper Time Total Marks Pass Marks
01. General Knowledge 02 hours 100 40
02. Intelligence Test 01 hour and 15 minutes 100 40
03. Authority who is conducting the examination : Surveyor General.
04. How often are examinations held ? on necessity.
05. Syllabus for the examination :
Name of Question paper Syllabus
01. General Knowledge It is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge on political, social cultural,
religious and economic environment as well as scientific and technical develoment
of Sri Lanka including surroundings in which he/she lives, and general matters
of international importance by this question paper.
02. Intelligence Test This will be multiple choice question paper framed to judge the candidate’s
power of rational thinking, power of reasoning and decision making appropriately.
Appendix “d”
01. Name of the Examination : First Efficiency Bar Examination
02. Details of the Examination ;
Question paper Time Total Marks Pass Marks
                  Practical Test 100 40
03. Authority who is conducting the examination : Surveyor General.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .03.06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
10A
04. How often are examinations held ? Twice a year.
05. Syllabus for examination :
Name of Question Syllabus
paper
Practical Test This is a Practical Test to be held to test the knowledge of following subject mattes and working
ability
(i) Name of Survey instruments used commonly, proper methods of their use and
maintenance ;
(ii) Arrangement of 90 angels and straight lines ;
(iii) Survey instruments - Adjustment of the odolite and levels as per the specific mark,
proper method of carrying tripod when survey instruments are fixed ;
(iv) Chaining :
(a) Extension of chains, cleaning and proper way of towing chains ;
(b) Use of balance and alignment of support chains by eye sight ;
(c) Work relating to the front chain and rear chain ;
(d) Reading chains and tapes.
Practical Test (v) Reading rough scale sketches ;
(vi) Knowledge about General Office procedures and methodology on establishment
administration relevant to this service.
Appendix “e”
01. Name of the Examination : Second Efficiency Bar Examination.
02. Details of the Examination :
Question paper Time Total Marks Pass Marks
Written Test 02 hours 100 4 0
03. Authority who is conducting the examination : Surveyor General.
04. How often are examinations held ? twice a year.
05. Syllabus for the examination :

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
11A
Name of Question Syllabus
paper
This is a Written Test to test whether the candidate has acquired the required knowledge and
comprehension about work norms to be done, matters related to land marks, leave rights,
preparation or vouchers, knowledge about the regulations on travelling claims, writing official
letters, knowledge of keeping and reading field book entries, Identification of positions in the
field by means of a diagram, forming distance as per the scale of a diagram, knowledge about the
miscellaneous surveys, control of subordinates, Safeguarding and storage of the departmental
tools and survey instruments.
Appendix “f”
01. Name of the Examination : Third Efficiency Bar Examination.
02. Details of the Examination :
Name of Question paper Time Total Marks Pass Marks
Oral Test 15 minutes 100 40
03. Authority who is conducting the examination : Surveyor General.
04. How often are examinations held ? Twice a year
05. Syllabus for examination :
Name of Question Syllabus
paper
Relevant Oral Test will be held by a qualified board of interview appointed by the Surveyor
General. This is an Oral Test, to test whether the candidate has acquired the required knowledge
about provisions of Establishment Code and Financial Regulations, General knowledge about
storage, General knowledge about  personnel administraion and field work.
Appendix “g”
01. Name of the Examination : Written Aptitude test for Promotion from Grade III to Grade II under Extraordinary
Performance.
02. Details of the Examination :
Name of Question paper Time Total Marks Pass Marks
Written Aptitude Test 02 hours 100 60
03. Authority who is conducting the examinatin : Surveyor General.
04. How often are examinatins held ? Once a year
written Test
Oral Test

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .03.06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
12A
05. Syllabus for examination :
Name of Question Syllabus
paper
Written Aptitude test This is a Written Aptitute Test to test whether the candidate has acquired the required knowledge,
skills and attitudes as well as the proficiency to perform all duties assigned to him in an efficiency
over and above the normal level of efficiency such as keeping and reading field book entries,
knowledge about the miscellaneous surveys, identification of positions in the field by means of
a diagram, setting out and opening of relevant pickets and land marks of the old boundaries in
the field pertaining to the survey, assist to maintain and protect the instruments used in the field,
establish land marks and bench marks in the field using accurate data, matters relating to
miscellaneous land marks, leave rights, understanding about professional responsibilities and
ethict writing official letters.
Appendix “h”
Absorption of Incumbent Employees (Applicable only to those who are in service to the due date).
All the employees who are placed in the salary scale coded PL 2-2006-A under P .A. Circular No. 06/2006 (iv) to the
effectice date of new recruitment procedure/service minute will be absorbed into the following grade system in terms of the
salary conversion methodology in clause - 4 Chapter VII of the Establishment Code based on the respective grade of salary
scale PL-2-2006-A which received on the effective date of new recruitment procedure/service miniute . The period of service
should be counted based on the date of appointment to the respective grade. However as a result of absorption there will be
no change in date of increment of respective officer and the same date should be implementerd without changes the
increment date the before absorption. Also, at the salary conversion, it should not be placed in next above salary step as such
on accordant to the last received salary step with the new salary step of the respective officer.
(i) PL 2 - Grade III
(a) The employees, who have not completed at least (10) years of service in a Grade or a Post assigned with
salary steps applicable to Grade III, PL 2-2006-A.
and
(b) The employees, who have completed at least (10) years of service or more in a Grade or a Post applicable
to Grade III as referred above, but not satisfied the other necessary requirements for absorption into
Grade II.
PL 2 - will be absorbed in to the Grade III
(ii) PL 2 - Grade II
(a) The employees, who have completed at least (10) years of service or more, but not completed (20) years
of service in a Grade or a Post applicable to Grade III as referred above, also should have completed
minimum period of ten (10) yeas satisfactory service and satisfied other service requirements according
to the implemented recruitment procedure/service minute prior to the effect date of new recruitment
procedure/new service minute.
and
(b) The employees, who have not completed at least (09) years of service in a Grade or a Post assigned with
salary steps applicable to Grade II, Salary Scale PL 2-2006 A

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
13A
and
(c) The employees, who have completed 09 years of service in a Grade or a Post applicable to Grade II as
referred above, but not satisfied the other necessary requirements needed for promotion to Grade I
according to the implemented recruitment procedure/service minute prior to the effect date of the new
recruitment procedure/new service minute.
PL 2 - will  be absorbed into the Grade II.
(iii) PL 2 - Grade I
(a) The employees, who have completed at least (20) years of service or more, but less than 30 years in a
Grade or a Post applicable to Grade III as stated above, and who have earned all the increments during
that period and satisfied the other necessary requirements according to the implemented recruitment
procedure/service minute prior to the effect date of the new recruitment procedure/new service minute.
and
(b) The employees, who have not completed at least (09) years of service or more, but less than 19 years of
service in a Grade or a Post applicable to Grade II as referred above and who have earned all the increments
during that period and satisfied the above mentioned other service requirements.
and
(c) The employees, who have not completed at least (09) years of service in a Grade or a Post assigned with
salary step applicable to Grade I, Salary Scale PL 2-2006 A.
(d) The employees, who have completed 09 years of service in  a Grade or a Post applicable to Grade I as
referred above, but not satisfied the other necessary requirements needed for promotion to Special
Grade.
Pl 2 - will be absorbed into the Grade I.
(iv) PL 2 - Special Grade :
(a) The employees, who have completed at least (30) years of service in a Grade or a Post relevant to Grade
III as referred above, and who have earned all the increments during that period and satisfied the other
necessary requirements according to the implemented recruitment procedure/service minute and prior to
the effect date of the new recruitment procedure/new service minute.
and
(b) The employees, who have completed at least 19 years of service in a Grade or a Post relevant  Grade II as
stated above and who have earned all the increments during that period and satisfied  above mentioned
the other service requirements.
(c) The employees, who have completed at least 09 years of service in a Grade or a Post relevant to Grade I
as stated above and who have earned all the increments during that period and satisfied above mentioned
the other service requirements.
(d) The employees, who are paid salaries in a Grade or a Post assigned with salary step applicable to special
Grade Salary Scale PL 2-2006 A.
PL 2 - will be absorbed into the Special Grade.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .03.06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2013
14A
Appendix “i”
01. Name of the Examination : Structured Interview for promotion from Grade II to Grade I under exceptional
performance.
02. Details of the Examination :
Subject Time Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Structured Interview 20 minutes 100 50 or above
01. Authority who is conducting the examination : Surveyor General.
02. How often are examinations held ? Once a year
03. Syllabus for examination :
Name of question Syllabus Method of
paper allotting marks
Checking understanding about Sruvey field work 20
Knowledge about basic regulations of Establishment Code 20
Basic Knowledge about Financial Regulations 20
Structured Interview Knowledge and understanding about storage of survey instruments 10
Knowledge about personnel administration 20
Personality 1 0
03 - 849
PRINTED AT THE DEP ARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.