

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.01.2021
1A
1. Hon. Dhammika Priyantha Samarakoon Jayawardena Esquire
Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Hon. Khema Kumudini Wickremasinghe
Judge of the Supreme Court
3. Hon. Rathnapriya Gurusinghe
Judge of the Court of Appeal
To :
Greetings !
Whereas,  as per the Report and the Commission of Investigation appointed by virtue of the powers  vested in me
by Section 2 of the Commission of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) holding office for a period commencing on 08th January 2015 and
ending on 16th November 2019, and/or prior to the Presidential Election and/or General Election in the months of January and
August, 2015, respectively, to investigate and obtain information on alleged activities to directly or implicitly political
victimization against public officers, employees of public corporations,  members of the Armed Forces and the Police or any
other person, the said report which is in 3 volumes including Correction of Letters and printing errors, was submitted to me.
Noting that, after submitting the final report of the Commission of Inquiry to the Cabinet of Ministers, which is in 3 volumes
including Correction of Letters and Typos, the Cabinet of Ministers has approved the implementation of the decisions and
recommendations under items 08, 09 and 10 of that report.
w;s úfYI
wxl 2212$53 - 2021 ckjdß ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'01'29
No. 2212/53  -  FRIDAY ,    29,   JANUARY,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations &  C., by the President
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A-  G  33264 — 385  (01/2021)
This Gazette Extra ordinary can be downloa ded fr om www.documents. gov.lk
BY HIS EXCELLENCY GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA, PRESIDENT OF
THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
 P.S. No. : PS/CSA/00/1/14/28.
 Seal GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.01.2021
2A
The above said decisions and recommendations of the final reports states, that by establishment of the Commission
to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, Financial Investigations Divisions of the Sri Lanka Police of the Special
Investigations Unit of the Sri Lanka Police was established contrary to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
These were established by a set of people of a political organization under the name of Anti - corruption Committee and a
National Executive Council, which was establish against the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of   Sri Lanka
and contrary to the provisions of the same, with the intention of directly or indirectly retaliate the Complainants who are
mentioned in item number 09 and 10 of the above said investigation report.
And, whereas, noting that, for implementation of Decision No. 1 and Recommendation 1, mentioned under Item
No. 08 in the final report of the Commission of Investigation mentioned above, the Cabinet of Ministers has decided to take
the necessary steps to create another suitable mechanism as recommended by Parliament or to appoint Special Presidential
Commission.
Now therefore, I, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing great
trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, do hereby in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the
Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry Act No. 07 of 1978 National State Assembly which was amended by the No. 4 of
1978 of Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry Act (Special Provisions) by these presents do hereby appoint you, the
said;
1. Hon. Dhammika Priyantha Samarakoon Jayawardena Esquire
Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Hon. Khema Kumudini Wickremasinghe
Judge of the Supreme Court
3. Hon. Rathnapriya Gurusinghe
Judge of the Court of Appeal
to act upon the below mentioned matters,
1. Including the above mentioned facts in the report, if respondents mentioned  in the item No. 08 of the above report
was,
I. Violating the provisions of the Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, while destructing
the oath which had been given in accordance with the provision of the said Constitution
II. Abuse or misuse of power, interference, fraud, corruption, criminal misuse, criminal breach of trust or nepotism
III. Political retaliation against some one
IV . When,
(a) Making any appointment or transfer,
(b) Granting a promotion,
(c) Terminating the service, of some one
 Due to any type of disorder
(d) Violating of any written law
as my commissioners  in order to further investigate and report whether above malpractices have done and what extent are
the above respondents so responsible, and to recommend whether a person should be subjected to a community disability
according to the provisions of Article 81 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Section 9
of the Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry Act No. 7 of 1978, as amended by the Special Presidential Commission of
Inquiry (Special Provisions) Act No. 4 of 1978.
Further, I do hereby appoint you the said Hon. Dhammika Priyantha Samarakoon Jayawardena, Judge of the
Supreme Court to be the Chairman of the said Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry.
.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.01.2021
3A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
Further, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to conduct or cause the conduct of
necessary investigations and inquiries and require you to transmit to me the Final Report or Interim Reports within three
months of the date hereof under your hand, setting out the findings of your investigations and inquiries, and your
recommendations, conclusions and imposed punishments relating thereto.
Further, if you decide to hold any inquiry or investigate or part of the same to be done without public awareness, I
hereby direct and allow you that neither should be done in public.
And, I do hereby direct all Government Officers, Officers of the Statutory Boards and other persons from whom you
may request assistance or information for the purposes of your investigations or inquiries, to give all possible assistance to
the task at hand and provide all possible information.
Further, I hereby declare that the provisions of Section 14 of the Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry Act
No. 7 of 1978 National State Assembly, shall apply to this Special Commission of Inquiry.
Given at Colombo under the Seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 28 day of January Two
Thousand and Twenty one.
By His Excellency’s Command,
P.  B .  J
AYASUNDERA,
Secretary to the President.