

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2503
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2492 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"417 – 2024 foieïn¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'12'27
No. 2,417 –  FRiday, dEcEmbER, 27, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th January, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd January. 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Deepa Nilanthi  Liyanage,
 Acting Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
25th december, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2489 - b 082640 - 5,403 (12/2024)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2490
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2491
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2492
Post - v acant
DEPARTmENT   Of  GOvERNmENT   ANALyST
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Laboratory Technological Services Officer 
- Grade III of the Sri Lanka Technological Service - 2024
01. Applications are hereby invited from qualified male and female candidates in Sri Lanka to fill 16 vacancies in the 
Department of Government Analyst for the post of Laboratory Technological Services Officer (Training Grade) of 
the Sri Lanka t echnological Service.
02. the selection of eligible candidates will be based on the result of the competitive examination conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
03. the competitive examination will be conducted in Sinhala, t amil and English at examination centers established 
by the department of Examinations in Colombo in January 2025.
04. candidates should agree to abide by the rules and regulations prescribed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for the conduct of the examination and the issuance of results. if these conditions are violated, he/she 
will be subject to the penalties imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Educational and other Qualifications :
5.1 Educational Qualifications
(a) Shall have passed the G.C.E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes for Sinhala/ Tamil/ 
English, mathematics and Science at not more than two sitting
and
(b) Shall have passed the G.C.E (A/L) examination in three subjects (03) from Combined Mathematics, 
Physics, Biology, or Agriculture in Science stream, including Chemistry related to the field, at one sitting 
(excluding the common General t est).
5.2 Should not be less than 18 and not more than 30 years of age as at the closing date of applications. accordingly, 
only those whose birthdays fall on or before 09.08.2006 and on or after 09.08.1994 are eligible to apply for 
this post.
5.3 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
5.4 Shall possess excellent character and sound physical and mental constitution,
5.5 No person who is ordained in any religious order shall become eligible to sit the examination,
5.6 Candidates are deemed to have possessed qualifications to sit the competitive examination for recruitment 
to the service only if they have satisfied all the qualifications and the prescribed age limit in each and every 
aspect, as at the date prescribed in the notification for calling applications.
06. method of Application
the application for aforementioned post is available under the "online applications - Recruitment Exam/ E.b 
Exams" section on the official website of Department of Examinations, www.doenets.lk . applications must be 
submitted exclusively through the online platform. the submission period will be commence at …… a.m. on 
………, 2024, and will close at 12.00 p.m. on ………………., 2024.
online applications should be completed exclusively in the English language. an acknowledgment of the 
application will be sent via SMS to the mobile number used to access the system or via email, confirming whether 
the application is valid and accepted by the Department. Applicants are required to download the instruction leaflet 
provided for the examination prior to completing the online application. The guidelines outlined in the leaflet must 
be strictly adhered to during the application process.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2493
Officers currently serving in the public service or provincial public service are required to submit a copy of their 
application to the Head of the institution for filling in their personal file. Furthermore, an attested copy of the 
application, certified by the Head of the institution, along with a service letter, should be submitted when the 
candidate is called for the interview.
Candidates with special needs applying for this examination are required to mention their specific needs and attach 
copies of the relevant medical reports with their application.
07. the commissioner General of Examinations will issue the admission card, along with the examination date and 
timetable, to the candidate. the candidate should submit the admission card, with the signature duly attested, to the 
Supervisor of the examination hall. a candidate who fails to produce the admission card will not be permitted to 
sit for the examination. once the admission cards are issued to the candidates, an announcement will be published 
on the website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, and candidates will be notified via SmS. if the 
admission card is not received, candidates should promptly notify the department of Examinations in the manner 
specified in the advertisement. A request letter, along with a copy of the application form retained by the candidate, 
should be sent to the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka to request the admission card. if the candidate resides 
outside colombo, it is advised to include a fax number in the request letter.
08. a  candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject in which he/she appears. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
 i. National identity card,
 ii. a  valid Passport,
 iii. a  valid Sri Lankan driving License.
Candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face or ears to allow for identity verification. 
candidates who refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, candidates 
are required to keep their face and ears uncovered from the moment they enter the examination hall until they leave, 
so that the examination authorities can identify the candidate.
09. On the presumption that only those who meet the qualification specified in the Gazette Notification have applied, 
candidates who have submitted duly completed applications will be permitted to sit for the competitive examination. 
The issuance of an admission card to an applicant should not be considered as confirmation that he or she has met 
all the eligibility requirements for the post. if a candidate who has obtained the highest marks in the examination 
is found to be disqualified upon verification of qualifications, he or she will be deemed ineligible for appointment. 
Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the conduct of the examination. in case of violation of rules and regulations, he or she will be liable to 
any penalty imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations.
10. The Government Analyst reserves the right to make the final decision on matters not covered in the Gazette 
Notification and regarding appointments.
11. Examination fees:
the examination fee is Rs. 600.00 Payment of the examination fee should be made exclusively through the methods 
provided by the online system.
 i. any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit card with the Facility of internet transactions
 iii. online banking method of bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of bank of ceylon
Note -
(a) instructions for making payments through the above methods are provided in the technical instructions section on 
the website.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2494
(b) acknowledgment of payment  received will be sent via SMS or email. The full examination fee must be paid; 
applications with insufficient or excessive payment will be rejected. The Department of Examinations will not be 
held responsible for any issues arising from payment defects using the methods outlined above.
(c) Examination fees paid will not be refunded or transferred to another examination under any circumstances. 
12. Written Examination :
the examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums, and the medium applied cannot be 
changed thereafter. candidates should answer all questions in one language only. the written examination consists 
of two question papers as follows;
 i. intelligent test
 ii. Subject related Technological Test
13. Syllabus for the examination :
 i. intelligence test : duration: 1 hour. total marks : 100
this paper consists of 50 questions, including both multiple choice Questions and Short answer Questions. 
all Questions should be answered.
it consists of questions designed to assess the candidate's reasoning ability, numerical ability analytical skills, 
and general knowledge.
 ii. Subject related Technological Test : Duration: 2 hours. Total Marks : 100.
  this paper consists of structured essay-type questions, and all questions should be answered.
it consists of questions designed to assess the candidate's knowledge of chemistry.
14. method of Selection :
 i. candidates should obtain at least 40% or more of the marks in each paper. a number of candidates equivalent to 
the number of available vacancies will be selected for the interview from those who have obtained the highest 
marks. The interview will be conducted to verify qualifications. The Commissioner General of Examinations 
will take steps to send result sheets, including marks obtained in each subject and the total marks, to each 
candidate, or alternatively, release the results on the department's website. No marks will be awarded during 
the interview.
 ii. Qualified candidates who have obtained the highest marks in each of the two subjects will be selected based 
on the number of available vacancies and will be appointed to the post of Laboratory technological Services 
Officer - Training Grade.
 iii. Recruitment to Grade III shall be made on submission of the certificate issued by the department proving that 
the officer has passed the examination after successful completion of training period.
15. Candidates will be required to produce the following documents when requested.
(a) Highest certificates obtained for educational and technological qualifications.
(b) Birth certificate issued by the Registrar General.
(c) Three (03) recent character certificates; two (02) of which should be from the principal of the most recent 
school attended and the Grama Niladhari of the residential area.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2495
16. medical Test :
Selected candidates will be required to undergo a medical examination to demonstrate their physical fitness to serve 
in any part of Sri Lanka. If it is determined that a candidate is unfit, they will be disqualified.
17. Salary Scale :
Training period - (Training Period of 02 years)
in terms of Public administration circular 03/2016, an allowance will be provided during the training period. the 
amount of the allowance will vary according to the salary circulars issued by the Government from time to time.
After Recruitment to Grade III
mN-03-2016-31,040-10x445-11x660-10x730-10x750-57,550
18. Service Conditions :
18.1 The appointment shall be subject to a 03 year probationary period, following a 02 year training period.
18.2 Selected candidates should make contribution to the windows' and orphans/ Widowers' and orphans Pension 
Scheme and this post is subjected to policy decisions taken by the Government in future with regard to the 
Pension Scheme.
18.3 Selected candidates will be subject to the provisions of the Sri Lanka Technological Service minute, the 
Establishments code, Financial Regulations, departmental orders, as well as regulations and order enacted or 
to be enacted by the government from time to time.
18.4 Before lapse of three (03) years of recruitment to the post of Laboratory Technological Services Officer - 
Grade III, the officer is required to pass the 1
st  Efficiency Bar Examination in terms of the Service Minute 
of the Sri Lanka t echnological Service published in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1930/12 dated 01.09.2015.
18.5 In accordance with Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007, officers are required to acquire proficiency 
in the other official language relevant to the level of the post within five (05) years from the date of service 
confirmation.
18.6 General conditions in Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 2310/29 dated 14.12.2022 shall be applicable to each appointment.
19. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, t amil and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 P. S. K. Rajapakse,
 Government analyst.
on 20
th  december, 2024.
department of Government analyst,
No. 31, 
isuru mawatha, 
Pelawatta,
battaramulla.
12-407

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2496
PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION
Recruitment on open basis to the Post of Legal Officer (Category of Executive officer Grade III) of the 
Department of Archaeology under the ministry of buddhasasana,  
Religious and Cultural Affairs - 2024/2025
aPPLicatioNS  are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in this 
notification for filling the vacancy in the post of Legal Officer in category of Executive officer Grade III of the Department 
of Archaeology under the Ministry of Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs.
1. method of Recruitment :
the candidate, who obtains the highest marks on the result of an Eligiblity assessment interview conducted by an 
interview board appointed by the Public Service commission, will be recruited for vacancy among the applicants who 
have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the notification. The Eligibility Assessment Interview will be conducted in 
compliance with the marking scheme (mentioned under No. 6) approved by the Public Service commission.
The effective date of the appointment will be decided by the Public Service Commission.
2. Qualifications required :
(i) Educational/ Professional Qualifications
Should have taken oaths as an attorney at Law in the Supreme court.
(ii) Experience
Having obtained an active professional experience for not less than a period of three (03) years as an attorney 
at Law after taking oaths as an Attorney at Law in Supreme Court.(The time of obtaining the experience, official 
frank of the attestor and the date of attestation shall clearly be mentioned in the documents submitted to prove 
the active professional experience.)
Or
Having gained experience not less than three (03) years in legal post* at a Government institution after taking 
oaths as an Attorney at Law in the Supreme Court. (It shall be confirmed by a letter of the Secretary/ Head of the 
department/ institution.)
Note : The copies of the documents which prove the basic qualification shall be certified by the applicant 
him/herself and attached to the application. The applications which do not indicate clearly the date of 
commencement and termination of period of Service may be rejected without intimation.
* a  legal post means the posts which consider taking oaths as an attorney at Law in the Supreme court as the 
basic Qualification for making recruitment.
 (iii) Physical Fitness
Every candidate shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform the duties 
in the post.
(iv) Other Qualifications
• Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
• applicants shall be of an excellent character.
• Shall have fulfilled in every respect all the qualifications required for making recruitment to the post as at 
the closing date for applications.
3. Terms and Conditions of engagement in service
 i. This post is permanent. Pensionable. You shall be subject to the policy decisions made in future by the 
Government on the Scheme of Pensions. you are entitiled to you shall contribute to the widow's and orphans' 
pension Scheme/ Widowers and orphans Pension Scheme. you shall make payment of contributions therefore 
as prescribed by the Government from time to time.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2497
 ii. This appointment is subject to a probationary period of 03 years. The first efficiency bar Examination shall be 
passed in the manner specified in the Scheme of Recruitment within 03 years of making recruit to the post.
 iii. Proficiency in the other relevant official language/s as per the provisions in Public Administration Circular No. 
18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 shall be obtained.
 iv. This appointment is subject to the Procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, the Establishment Code 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government and the other 
orders of the department.
 v. the medium of language applied for will not subsequently be permitted to change and the medium of language 
in which you are eligible to obtain the appointment will be the medium of language you have mentioned in 
your application.
4. Age Limit
the age should not be less than 21 years and should not be more than 45 years as on the date of closing applications.
5. Salary Sclae
as per schedule i of Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, the monthly salary scale of this post 
is Rs. 47,615-10 x 1335-8 x 1630 - 17 x 2170 - 110,895/-
6. the following making scheme will be taken as the basis for the eligibility assessment interview.
Serial 
No.
Subject Marks Maximum 
marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications
a) Postgraduate degree in Law obtained from a University recognized 
by the University Grants commission
b) Postgraduate diploma in Law obtained from a University recognized 
by the University Grants commission or Post-attorney diploma 
obtained from institute of advanced Legal Studies of Law college 
of Sri Lanka 
c) 
• LLb degree with First class Pass
• LLb degree with Second Upper class Pass
• LLb degree with a class pass
• LLb degree with a General Pass, obtained from a University 
recognized by the University Grants commission.
d) First class pass in the Final y ear of Law college 
Second class Pass in the Final y ear of Law college.
Note i : above Five (05) marks will be awarded only if the Final 
year examination of Law collage has been passed with Hons. Pass.
Note II : The highest qualification will only be received marks.
25
20
15
10
07
05
10
05
25

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2498
Serial 
No.
Subject Marks Maximum 
marks
02 Additional Experience :
Preparation of relevant documents and adducing facts in open court
Filing of cases 
(For each case)
marks for 
adducing facts 
before court 
(for each case)
Supreme court 2 5
court of appeal 2 4
High court 2 3
district courts 4 5
t ribunals 2 3
Note -
Copies of the relevant cases or a certified copy of the case record of the final 
date of hearing of lawsuit shall be produced to the interview Panel to prove 
the above qualifications.
35
03 Knowledge on Information Technology/ Law of Information Technology
(a) Should have studied information t echnology or computer Science 
as a main subject for a degree of a University recognized by the 
University Grants commission.
(b) a  diploma in information and communication t echnology Law 
obtained from a University recognized by the University Grants 
commission or Law college of Sri Lanka or other V ocational 
institute recognized by the Government.'
(c) a  diploma in computer Science or information t echnology obtained 
from a University recognized by the University Grants commission 
or a diploma of NVQ 5 or above level in on computer Science or 
information t echnology obtained from another institution.
(d) Certificates obtained from participating Training Programmes/ 
following courses in the field of Law in Information and 
communication t echnology from a University recognized by the 
University Grants commission or Law college of Sri Lanka or 
other V ocational institute recognized by the Government (marks 
will be given for maximum of two certificates as 02 marks for each 
certificate.)
Note : Marks will be given only for the highest qualification.
10
08
05
04
10

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2499
Serial 
No.
Subject Marks Maximum 
marks
04 Language skill :
(a) degree obtained from a university recognized by the University 
Grants commission inclusive of English Language as a main 
subject.
(b) Fluency in English language at the moot court competitions 
recognized at international or national level.
Single 
     i.    First Place/ merit skill - 12
    ii.    Second Place - 10
   iii.    third Place/ other skills - 08
Group
     i. First Place/ merit skill - 10
    ii. Second Place - 08
   iii. third Place/ other skills  -06
(c) a  diploma obtained for English language from a university 
recognized by the University Grants commission or a diploma 
of SLQF 3 or higher level for English language obtained from 
another institution or a diploma for English language obtained after 
following a course of minimum 1500 study hours at a Government 
Training Institution/ an Institute affiliated to Government Training 
institution.
(d) Having obtained at least a distinction pass for English language at 
the General Certificate Examination (Advanced Level) (Local or 
London) or total marks of 6.5 or above for iEL tS, 79 or above for 
toEFL - ibt  or 213 or above for toEF - cbt  or 550 or above for 
toEFL - Pbt .
(e) An Advanced certificate obtained for English Language from a 
university recognized by the University Grants commission or a 
SLQF level 2 certificate obtained for English language from another 
institution.
              Note : Marks will be given only for the highest qualification. 
15
12
10
08
05
15
05 Proficiency shown at the interview
• Strength questions (02 marks)
• Situational questions (03 marks) and
• competency questions (10 marks)
t o test the applicant's ability which helps to perform the role or post.
marks will be given as per the answers given for the questions which aim for 
the assessment.
15
Total 100

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2500
7. Identity of Candidates
only the candidates who have submitted applications which are complete in every respect will be called for the 
Eligibility assessment interview.
The originals of all the certificates and the copies certified duly by the applicant him/ herself shall be produced at the 
interview.
any of the following documents will be accepted for the proof of identity at the interview :
(i) Valid National identity card issued by the commissioner General of Registration of Persons,
(ii) Valid Passport.
8. method of submitting Applications :
 (i) applications shall be sent under registered cover to reach the address "director General of archaeology, Sir 
marcus Fernando mawatha, colombo 07" on or before 28.01.2025. applications received after closing date 
will be rejected.
 (ii) The format of the application which shall be submitted has been appended to the end of this notification and 
applicants shall prepare and submit their applications on (a4) size paper. the application shall be prepared 
in such a way that the headings 01 to 02 shall be appearing in the 1
st  page, from 03 to 06 in the 2 nd  page, from 
07 to 10 in the 3 rd page and 11 in the 4 th  page. it shall be completed in his/her own hand writings.
 (iii) The words "Recruitment to the post of Legal Officer Grade III" shall be indicated on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
 (iv) Signature of candidate in the application shall be attested by a Principal of Government School/ a Justice 
of Peace/ A Commissioner of Oaths/ an Attorney at Law/ a Notary Public/ Commissioned Officer of three 
forces or an officer holding a permanent post in Public or Provincial Government Service receiving a monthly 
consolidated salary of Rs. 47,615/-.
 (v) The officers already in the Public Service or Provincial Government Service shall submit their applications 
through their Head of the department they are serving.
 (vi) The applications which are not in compliance with the format appended herewith will be rejected without 
intimation. No any complaint will be accepted regarding loss or delay of applications.
9. Provision of false information :
your candidature will be cancelled if it is found that any information in the application you have sent is incorrect 
or false before the recruitment. if it is found after the recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss from the service 
subjecting to the relevant procedures.
10. The right to fill or not to fill the vacancy is reserved with the Public Service Commission.
11. In case of any inconsistency or nonconformity in the language phrases of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English media, Sinhala phrase shall be remained effective.
12. The decision of the Public Service Commission will be the final in case of arising any problematic situation in this 
recruitment procedure or any fact which have not been mentioned in this notification.
by order of the Public Service commission,
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs.
on 23rd day of december, 2024.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2501
Specimen  Application  from
Recruitment to the Post of Grade III Legal  Officer of Executive Service Category of the Department of 
Archaeology
      (for Office Use Only)
(Write the number of the medium of language applied in the cage.)
Sinhala - 2/ t amil - 3/ English - 4
Note :- the medium of language applied cannot be changed.
1.0 1.1 Name in Full (mr./ mrs./ miss) : .............................................................................
  (in Sinhala/ t amil)  .............................................................................
 1.2 Name in Full : .............................................................................
  (in English block letters)  .............................................................................
 1.3 Name with initials (mr./ mrs./ miss) :   .............................................................................
  (in Sinhala/ t amil) Eg. GUNa W aRdHaNa, m.G.b.S.K.  
 1.4 Name in initials : .............................................................................
  (in English block letters)  .............................................................................
2.0 2.1 Permanent address : .............................................................................
  (in Sinhala/ t amil)  .............................................................................
 2.2 Permanent address : .............................................................................
  (in English block letters)  .............................................................................
3.0 3.1 Gender : male - 0
  (Write in the relevant cage) Female - 1
 3.2 marital Status married - 1
  (Write in the relevant cage) Unmarried - 2
 3.3 date of birth :  y ear month  date
 3.4 age as at 28.01.2025  y ear: months:  days:
 3.5 National identity card Number :
4.0 t elephone Number Fixed
   mobile 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2502
5.0 Educational Qualifications :
 5.1  degree institution date
   .......................................... .......................................... ..........................................
   .......................................... .......................................... ..........................................
   .......................................... .......................................... .......................................... 
6.0 date of taking oaths as an attorney at Law in the Supreme court : ...............................
 6.1 date of completion of experience of 03 years after taking oaths in the Supreme court : ........
 6.2 date of completion of experience of 05 years in a legal post in a Public institution : ........
 * The certificates/ documents which prove the basic qualifications shall be certified by the applicant him/herself as true 
copies and submitted along with the application.
7.0 Details related to obtaining each qualification under No. 06 of the notification of calling applications.
 7.1 Additional Educational Qualifications : 
  ...........................................................................................................
 7.2 additional Professional Experience : 
  ...........................................................................................................
 7.3 Knowledge on information technology :
  ...........................................................................................................
 7.4 Language skill : 
  ...........................................................................................................
 * The documents which prove the additional qualifications shall not be sent along with the application and it is the 
responsibility of the applicant to keep such documents ready to present at the interview.
8.0 Have you ever been convicted for any offence in a Court of Law ?
 if yes, the details may be mentioned.)
9.0 declaration of applicant :
 I hereby certify that the particulars finished by me in this application are true and accurate and all the parts herein 
have been correctly completed. i am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false, before 
selection, I am liable to be disqualified and to dismiss from service if any inaccuracy is detected after the appointment 
and i abide by all the rules and regulations.
  date : ....................................    ........................................
       Signature of applicant.
10.0 attestation of the Signature of applicant :
i, do hereby certify that mr./ mrs./ miss .................................. who submits this application is personally known to me 
and he/ she placed his/ her signature in my presence on ..............................
 date : ....................................    ....................................................
       Signature of the attesting officer.
 Full Name of the Attesting Officer : ......................................................
 designation  : ......................................................
 date   : .......................................................
 (Confirm by the official frank.)

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.12.2024
2503
11.0 Recommendation of the Head of the Department : (Only for the officers in the Public Service.)
i certify that mr./ mrs./ miss .................................... who submits this application is serving in this institution, that 
the particulars supplied by him/ her are correct, that his/her work and attendance are satisfactory, that there is no any 
offence against him/ her and that he/she may be released from the service of this Institution if he/ she is selected for 
this post.
...............................................................
Signature of the Head of the department . 
(Confirm by the official frank).
date :
Name : ......................................................
 designation : ......................................................
 address  : ......................................................
 date   : .......................................................
(Place the official frank.)
12-415
Amendment
D EPART m ENT  O f fIS h ERIES  AND  Aqu ATIC  R ESO u RCES
Open Competitive Examination for  Recruitment to the Post of m arine Engineering Assistant (Sri Lanka 
Technological Service) Gr. III in the Category of Supervisory m anagement Assistant (Technical) of the 
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources from amongst the officers who are already in the Public/ 
Provincial Public Service and holding a pensionable post - 2024
tHE notice calling for applications for recruitment to the post of marine Engineering assistant (Sri Lanka technological 
Service) Gr. iii in the category of Supervisory management assistant ( technical) of the department of Fisheries and 
aquatic Resources was published in the Gazette Notification No. 2356 dated 02.02.2024 in all three languages. It is kindly 
notified that the closing date of applications mentioned as 01.03.2024 in the said Gazette Notification is extended as follows.
closing date of application : 24.01.2025
the specimen application form has been published through " online applications - Recruitment Exams" under " our services" 
in the Website of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka www.doents.lk and the applications can be submitted via 
online. acceptance of online applications will be open on 27 th  december, 2024 at 09.00 a.m.
applicants who have correctly forwarded their applications prior to this do not need to resubmit the applications. 
Further, the Gazette Notification No. 2356 dated 02.02.2024 has been published in the website of the Department of Fisheries 
and Aquatic Resources (http:/www.fisheriesdept.gov.lk).
12-383
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERN mENt  PRiNtiNG,   SRi  LaNKa.