

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.08.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2243$3 - 2021 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks i÷od - 2021'08'30
No. 2243/3  -   MONDAY ,   AUGUST 30,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-  G  34892— 385  (08/2021)
Regulations
PART I
GENERAL
1. These regulations may be cited as the Emergency (Provision of Essential Food) Regulation,
No. 1 of  2021.
2. The objective of these regulations is to prevent the activities such as hiding, interrupting the
distribution, charging high prices of especial food bulks including rice and sugar and causing market
irregularities which cause inconvenience to the consumers and the welfare of the people. Therefore,
authorized officers or authorities shall cause to buy the bulks of essential food including paddy, rice, sugar
based on the guaranteed price or the imported prices at the customs and, supply to the public at a
reasonable price and the State banks shall take measures to recover the loans borrowed from such banks
to buy such bulks from the creditors. 
Short title.
Objectives.
THE  PUBLIC  SECURITY  ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER 40)
REGULATIONS made by the President under Section 5 of the Public Security Ordinance (Chapter 40).
GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA,
President.
Colombo,
August 30, 2021.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.08.2021
2A
3. (1)  In any emergency regulation, unless any other definition is expressly provided therein or
unless it is otherwise expressly provided therein or the context otherwise requires—
"Attorney-General" in relation to any emergency regulation, includes the Solicitor-
General,Additional Solicitor-General, Deputy Solicitor-General, or any Counsel authorized to
perform as a State Counsel by the Attorney-General in that behalf for the purpose of such
regulation;
"competent authority"in relation to any emergency regulation means,unless otherwise provided
for in such regulation, any person appointed by name,or by office,by the President to be a
competent authority for the purpose of such regulation;
"emergency regulation" means any of these regulations or any other regulations made under
the Public Security Ordinance;
"essential service" means any service which is of public utility or essential for the life of the
community declared by the President and includes any Department of Government or branch
thereof and which is specified in the Schedule hereto and shall also include any service which
may thereafter be declared in terms of regulation 10 of these regulations;
"Inspector General of Police" includes any Senior Deputy Inspector General of Police;
"land" includes lands or parts of buildings or processing centers where food is stored or
processing;
"vehicle" means vehicles use for the distribution of food;
"police officer" means member of any police established under the Police Ordinance (Chapter
53);
"public officer" shall have the same meaning assigned to it under the Constitution; and
"Sri Lanka" means the area land of Sri Lanka and includes its territorial waters and air space.
(2) The provisions of Interpretation Ordinance shall apply for the interpretation of emergency
regulations and, Orders or rules made under those regulations in the same manner as it
applies for the interpretation of any Act, or Ordinance or Law.
(3) Every reference to an emergency regulation in any document or any other written law,
unless it appears to be in the contrary, shall be construed as a reference to such regulation
as amended by any subsequent regulation made under the Public Security Ordinance.
(4) An Order made by the President declaring that a service specified in the Schedule hereto,
or any service in terms of the regulation 10 of these regulations is essential to the public
utility or, the lives of the people may be made generally with respect to the whole Sri Lanka
or any area or a place which is referred to in such Order.
(5) Where any emergency regulation requires that any direction or Order made under such
emergency regulation shall specify a time period within which such direction or Order is in
force, such time period shall be so specified in such direction or Order. If such time period
is not so specified, such direction or Order shall be deemed to be in force during the time
period within which such regulation is in force.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.08.2021
3A
4.Unless otherwise expressly provided, the powers assigned to the President by any emergency
regulation, shall be in addition to any other rights or powers vested in the President or other authority or
person by law and not in derogation of such rights or powers.
5. Any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on the President by any emergency regulation
may be implemented, delegated, performed by any Minister authorized by the President in that behalf.
6. (1) For the purpose of any emergency regulation, any person may be appointed as the competent
authority generally for the whole Sri Lanka or for any area or the place as specified in the document by
which such person is appointed:
Provide that, the appointment of two or more  persons as the competent authority for any purpose
of any regulation or any specified area or place, shall not be deemed to be prevented by any preceding
provisions of this regulation.
(2) Where any person holding any office has been appointed as the competent authority by such
office, if there is no express provision to the contrary, the person who is performing the duties of such
office at that time shall be deemed to have been included in such appointment.
7. Any notice that is required to be served on any person for the purpose of any emergency
regulation may, without prejudice to any specific provisions contained in such regulation, be served by
sending it by post to his last known place of residence or customary residence or his place of business.
8. When construing any power granted to make any order or rule by any emergency regulation,
such power shall be construed to include the power to revoke or vary such order or rule in the same manner
and subject to the same conditions if any, in or under which such order or rule was made.
PART 2
ESSENCIAL  SERVICES
9. (1) The President may, by Order, appoint any person, by name or by office, as the Commissioner-
General of Essential Services for the whole of Sri Lanka or any part thereof. It shall be the duty of the
Commissioner-General of Essential Services to implement and co-ordinate all activities relating to the
maintenance of essential services.
(2)  The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may appoint, by name or by office, such
number of Deputy Commissioners or Assistant Commissioners, as may be necessary for the performance
of his duty under these regulations.
(3)  The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may delegate any powers, duties or functions
vested in, imposed on or assigned to the Commissioner-General of Essential Services by or under these
regulations to a Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner appointed under sub regulation (2).
(4) For the purpose of performing the responsibilities under this regulation, the Commissioner-
General of Essential Services may exercise-
(a) any power assigned to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Defence or to a competent authority appointed under regulation 11;
Powers of the
President.
Assignment of
powers, duties
and functions
under the
emergency
regulations.
Competent
authority.
Service of
notices.
Revoking or
varying orders,
& etc.
Commissioner-
General to co-
ordinate the
essential
services.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.08.2021
4A
(b) any power assigned for the purpose of that regulation, to the competent authority by
regulation 12;
(c) any power under that regulation which has been assigned to any authority or officer
under regulation 13.
(5) For the purpose of ensuring the duly maintenance of the essential services, the Commissioner-
General of Essential Services may give necessary directions to-
(a) any competent authority appointed under regulation 11;
(b) any authority or officer who has been assigned any power under regulation 13,
and it shall be the duty of such competent authority, authority officer or coordinating officer, as the case
may be, to comply with every such direction.
10. Where any service specified in the Schedule to these regulations is declared as an essential
service, any person who is engaged in any duty or employed in any service on or after August 30, 2021-
(a) fails or refuses to be present at the place of his duty or at the place where he serves after
the expiration of one day from the date of such order or does not perform his duty according
to the terms and conditions of his service during the required entire period of time of any
normal working day or any part of a day or fails to work or refuses to work or leaves the
work place or becomes absent from work; or
(b) fails or refuses to perform such duty directed by his employer or any person acting under
the authority of the employer within a specified  period of time or during such any period
of time given by such employer or such person (whether such period of time is during
normal working hours or outside such working hours or on holidays) while engaged or
employed in any specified service.
notwithstanding such absence or failure to perform such duty or refusal occurred due to abetting any
strike or other organizational activity-
(i) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law or in the terms and conditions
of any employee agreement of such person, it shall be deemed for all purposes that he has
immediately terminated his service or resigned from his service; or
(ii) in addition, he shall be convicted of an offence.
In this paragraph the phrase "specified service" means an essential service declared by the
President by an Order published in the Gazette and an essential service which can be ordered to be
performed outside the normal working hours or on holidays by any person engaged or employed in any
duty in relation to such service.
(2)  Where any service is declared as an essential service-
(a) Any person in any manner,
(i) interrupts, obstructs, delays or restricts the maintain of such service;
(ii) interrupts or obstructs or prevents any person from coming to his work place who is
engaged in maintaining such service or in any service in relation to such service or
engaged in such service;
Maintaining
essential
services and
interrupting
those services
and etc.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.08.2021
5A
(iii) if persuades or encourages any person who is engaged in maintaining such service or 
in any service in relation to such service or engaged in such service, to not report for 
duty;
(iv) if such service is a government dep artment or any division of such  department, 
persuades or encourages to establish or maintain a service in place of such service or 
parallel to such service;
(v) if persuades or encourages any person engaged in maintaining such service or in any 
service in relation to such service or engaged in such service to leave  such  service 
(whether such person leaves such  service or not);
(vi) if prevents any other p erson from acceptin g or offering emp loyment in relation  to 
carrying out such service or duty; or 
(b) if any person by any act or by speech or document persuades or encourages any other
person to perform any act referred to in paragraph (a) of this sub regulation (if such person
performs such act or not, as a result of such action),
he shall be guilty of an offence.
PART 3
STATE  INTERVENTION  TO  PROVIDE  AND  MAINTAIN  THE  SUPPLY  OF  ESSENTIAL FOOD,
STOCKS  SPECIFIED  HEREIN KEPT  IN  PRIV ATE  FOOD  STORES,  PADDY  STORES  AND PADDY
MILLS,  TO THE  PUBLIC
11. (1) Where any premises is alleged to have been used for the commission of an offence or in
connection with the commission of an offence under these regulations, the Superintendent of Police of the
relevant area shall take such premises which has been used to store essential food stocks, including
paddy, rice and sugar, into his possession  and remove any person found or residing therein and shall
prevent and protect such premises from  unauthorized entry by any person:
 Provided that, any person who claims to have owned such building, premises or place shall be
entitled to make an application to the Court of Appeal to obtain an order to release such building or
premises from such possession. Where the Court of Appeal is satisfied, after the expiration of a period of
two weeks of issuing any such order, that such building or premises has been used without his knowledge
or in contravention of his instructions, the Court of Appeal may release such building or premises:
Provided further, where an action has not been filed within a period of six months after taking into
possession of such premises or building, the Court of Appeal shall order such building or the premises to
be returned to such owner.
(2) Where any person has been convicted of an offence under this regulation and where the court
is satisfied that such premises has been used, or used in connection with, the commission of an offence
under this regulation, the Court of Appeal may make an order to confiscate such building or premises, in
addition to any punishment imposed by the Court of Appeal in respect of such offence.
12. (1) Where a competent authority deems it necessary to seize any essential food items including
paddy, rice and any vehicle transporting such items for the purpose of providing essential supplies and
services to the public, such competent authority may seize such food items including paddy and rice and
any vehicle transporting such commodities.
Taking into
possession of
buildings and
premises used
for the
commission of
an offence, etc.
Seizure of
purchases and
transportation.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.08.2021
6A
(2)Where the competent authority seizures essential food items including paddy and rice under
paragraph (1) for the purpose of maintaining public order and for providing essential supplies  and services
to the public, such competent authority shall, taking into account the state certifies prices or custom
specified prices under the instruction of the Commissioner General of Essential suppliers, and take steps to
provide them to the consumers for a fair prices or may authorized to do so.
(3) Where the competent authority is of the opinion that it is required to do so, for the purpose of
exercising the powers vested on him under paragraph (1), he may make an Order, in relation to the entirety
of Sri Lanka or in relation to any part thereof, directing any person who has in his possession or control a
vehicle in an area in respect of which the Order relates, to not to remove or caused to be removed such
vehicle, until the person or authority specified in the Order permits to remove the same.
(4) Where any person, requests for assistant from any police officer or other public officer, in
exercising the powers vested in him by the preceding provisions of this regulation, such police officer or
public officer shall provide such assistant so requested.
(5) For the purpose of this regulation, the "competent authority" means the Chairman of the
Consumer Affairs Authority, Inspector General of Police or a District Secretary of any District.
13. (1) The President may direct or authorize one or more authorities or officers determined in that
behalf to direct any person by warrant under his hand to do any work in aid of or in respect of the
maintenance of an essential service or to provide any personal service.
(2) A person who contravenes any Order made under these regulations or fails to comply with
such Order commits an offence and shall on conviction  after a trial before a Magistrate, in addition  to any
penalty imposed  therefor–
(a) be liable for forfeiture of all his property, immovable or movable, free of any encumbrance
attached thereto;
(b) any transfer or disposition of property by such person after the effective date of   these
regulations shall deemed to be null and void.
SCHEDULE
The employment of work or labour required to perform any service for the collection, storing,
refining, transporting and distributing of the essential consumer items such as paddy, rice and sugar
required for the due maintenance of the day today life of the general public.
Requisition of
personal
services.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.