

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.10.2017
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 2041$10 - 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 17 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2017'10'17
No. 2041/10 - TUESDAY,  OCTOBER  17, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
L.D.B 5/2017
THE   LICENSING  OF  SHIPPING  AGENTS,  FREIGHT  FORWARDERS, NON-VESSEL OPERATING
COMMON  CARRIERS  AND  CONTAINER  OPERATORS  ACT,  No. 10  OF  1972
REGULATIONS  made by the Minister of Ports and Shipping under section 10 of the Licensing of Shipping Agents,
Freight Forwarders, Non- Vessel Operating Common Carriers and Container Operators Act, No. 10 of 1972.
MAHINDA  S AMARASINGHE ,
Minister of Ports and Shipping.
Colombo,
17th October, 2017.
Regulations
1.  These   regulations may be cited as the Shipping   Agents,   Freight Forwarders, Non-Vessel Operating Common
Carrier and Container Operators (Structure of Charges) Regulations 2017.
2. (1) Every licensed Shipping Agent, Freight Forwarder, Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier and Container
Operator  (hereinafter referred to as the “licensed service  provider”) who carries on the business of a shipping agent, a
freight   forwarder, a non-vessel  operating  common carrier, a container operator or a consolidator of cargo shall issue a clean
bill of lading which specifies the consignment of goods as a “Pre- Paid Freight” or “Freight Collect”.
(2)  No Bill of Lading shall specify the consignment of goods as “Zero Freight”.
3.  All charges on containerized cargo which cover entire cost of the carriage of goods referred to in the transport
document from the origin to destination, shall be included in the all-inclusive freight specified in the Bill of Lading which shall
be recovered only from the party who is contractually bound to pay the same.
4.  Every contract relating to the structure of charges levied by the licensed service provider shall be subject to these
regulations and a copy of the contract and any other relevant documents shall be submitted to the Director-General of
Merchant Shipping where required.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A- PG  3730 — 507  (10/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.10.2017
2A
5.  No licensed service provider shall charge from an importer in Sri Lanka any charge other than the all-inclusive
freight as specified in regulation 3  for the carriage of goods from the origin to destination as specified in the Bill of Lading or
Forwarder’s Cargo Receipt:
Provided, any licensed service provider may charge a delivery order fee from the importer which shall be payable in
Sri Lankan Rupees.
6. (1)  Where a delivery order fee is being charged by a licensed service provider, the amount of delivery order fee so
charged shall be informed to the Director General of  Merchant Shipping (hereinafter referred to as the “Director General”) by
such licensed service provider, for purposes of record.
(2)  If any licensed service provider intends to increase the amount of delivery order fee, an application in that
behalf shall be made to the Director General together with the documentary evidence supporting such increase.
(3)  The Director General may upon verification of supporting documents –
(a) accept the proposed increase of delivery order fee;
(b) reject the proposed revision of delivery order fee; or
(c) propose an alternative increase of the delivery order fee which he deems reasonable.
(4)  The decision of the Director General shall be communicated to the relevant licensed service provider within
forty- five working days from the date of receipt of the application referred to in paragraph (2), with reasons assigned therefor.
7.   No licensed service provider shall charge from an exporter in Sri Lanka, any charge other than the all-inclusive
freight as specified in regulation 3 for the carriage of goods from the origin to destination as specified in the Bill of Lading or
Forwarder’s Cargo Receipt.
8. Every licensed service provider covered shall comply with such directions issued under section 7 of the Licensing
of Shipping Agents, Freight Forwarders, Non- Vessel Operating Common Carriers and Container Operators Act, No. 10 of
1972.
9.  (a) Where any information or particulars, contained in any document submitted as required under these
regulations, is found to be incorrect or false; or
     (b)  where any licensed service provider violates the provisions of these regulations,
the Director General may,after an inquiry,take steps to suspend or cancel the license issued to such company or
withdraw or suspend the use of any privileges granted to such company.
10.  Any person who acts in contravention of any provision of these regulations, or furnishes any information or
explanation containing any particulars which to his knowledge are false or incorrect, shall be guilty of an offence and shall,
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonment
of either description for a period not exceeding one year, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
11.The Shipping Agents, Freight Forwarders, Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier and Container Operators
regulations 2013 published in the Extraordinary Gazette  No. 1842/16 of December 27, 2013 are hereby rescinded.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.10.2017
3A
12. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-
“all inclusive freight” shall include-
(a) Charges on full container load;
(b) Terminal handling charges;
(c) Charges for the issuance of bill of lading or forwarders cargo receipt; and
(d) Charges on less than container load cargo (if applicable); and
  “origin to destination” means the carriage of goods from –
(a) Container yard to container yard;
(b) Container freight station to container freight station;
(c) Container yard to container freight station;
(d) Container freight station to container yard.
11- 316
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.