

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"371 - 2024 fmnrjdß ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'02'09
No. 2,371 – friday,  february  09,  2024
(Published by Authority)
PArt IV (B) — LocAL  GoVernment
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of  Sri Lanka
Page
Notices under the Local authorities elections Ordinance ... ––
revenue & expenditure returns ... ––
budgets ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
	 	 Page 
Posts - Vacant ... ––
examinations, results of examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders  ... ––
Local	Government	Notifications	 ...	 138
by-Laws ... ––
ImPortAnt  notIce  reGArDInG   AccePtAnce  of  notIceS  
for  PuBLIcA tIon  In  the  WeekL y  “GAzette”
aTTeNTiON 	is	drawn	to	the	Notification	appearing	in	the	1st	week	of	every	month,	regarding	the	latest	dates	and	times	of	acceptance	of	Notices	
for	publication	in	the	weekly	Gazettes,	at	the	end	of	every	weekly	Gazette	of	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka.
All	Notices	to	be	published	in	the	weekly	Gazettes	shall	close	at	12.00	noon	of	each	Friday,	two	weeks	before	the	date	of	publication.	
All	Government	Departments,	Corporations,	Boards,	etc.	are	hereby	advised	that	Notifications	fixing	closing	dates	and	times	of	applications	in	
respect of Post-vacancies, examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices	to	actively	and	positively	participate	please	note	that	inquiries	and	complaints	made	in	respect	of	corrections	pertaining	to	notification	will	
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All	Notices	to	be	published	in	the	weekly	Gazette	should	reach	Government	Press	two	weeks	before	the	date	of	publication	i.e. Notices 
for	publication	in	the	weekly	Gazette of 01st March, 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th february, 2024.
electronic transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
  Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo	08,
01st January, 2024.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
N.B.—    (i) Part  iii, iV(a) and iV (b) of the Gazette No.	2,240	of	06.08.2021	were	not	published.	
 (ii) The List of Juror.s of badulla Jurisdiction areas in year 2021, has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala and 
Tamil Language.
137	-	B	082540	-	5,403	(02/2024)

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette  of  the  democratIc  SocIalISt  rePuBlIc  of  SrI   lanka – 09.02.2024
138
PrADeShIy A   SABhA  - LAnkAPurA
Declaring as a developed area 
The	following	resolution	was	passed	by	the	General	Meeting	in	terms	of	the	powers	vested	in	the	Lankapura	Pradeshiya	
Sabha in the Polonnaruwa district in terms in Section	134	of	Subsection	(i)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	of	1987,	 	
held	under	the	Resolution	No.	212/2020	of	the	General	Meeting	held	on	20th	October	2020	I	hereby	declare	to	the	public	
that i approve of the powers vested in me as the assistant Commissioner of Local Government by that Sub-section of that 
act.
 i. L. M. al	Ameen,  
 assistant Commissioner of  Local Government.
 
at Officer	of	the	Assistant	Commissioner	of	Local	Government,		
Resolution	No,	212/2020	passed	by	the	General	Meeting	held	on	23rd	October	2020.
In	terms	of	the	powers	vested	in	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	of	Lankapura	in	terms	of	Section 134 (i) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha	Act,	No.	15	of	1987,	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	has	been	extended	to	extend	the	service	to	the	maximum	extent	for	the	
areas described in the following map and Shedule	with	the	Lankapura	Pradeshiya	Sabha	area.	And	that	it	should	be	accepted	
as an area,
The Pradeshiya Sabha proposes that the proposal be approved by the assistant Commissioner of Local Government 
in the Polonnaruwa district.
Map	of	the	area	of	15.627sq	km	area	proposed	to	be	declared	as	a	developed	area,	in	Lankapura	Pradeshiya	Sabha	
limits in Polonnaruwa district of North Central Province the map of the area, Geographical coordinates, relevant boundaries 
and Name list of  owners are given below.
02-409
mA thuGAmA    PrADeShIy A   SABhA
 
calling for objections under the Slaughter ordinance
i hereby inform you that if you have objections regarding the running of the slaughterhouse built at the following location 
belonging	to	Welipanna	Sub-Office	of	Mathugama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,	please	submit	it	to	the	head Office	of	Mathugama	
Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	Welipanna	Sub-Office	before	22.02.2024.
Name	of	Applicant	:-	Mohamed	Hamdun	Mohamed	Niflas.
Address	:-	No.	146/3,	Marikkar	Road,	Dargatown.
Location	:-	No.	11/C,	Moor	Road,	Welipanna
	 Nelu	Nishanthi	Iddagoda,
	 The	Secretary	&	Officer	implementing,
 The powers, functions, and duties of the 
 Mathugama Pradeshiya Sabha.
22nd January, 2024.
02-96
Local Government Notifications

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette  of  the  democratIc  SocIalISt  rePuBlIc  of  SrI   lanka – 09.02.2024
139
thAWALAmA   PrADeShIy A  SABhA
Declaration as a developed area
iN  terms of  the powers conferred on the Thawalama Pradeshiya Sabha by S ub-section 134 (1) of the said act read with 
S ection	9	(3)	of	the	Local	Councils	Act,	No.	15	of	1987,	134	of	the	Local	Councils	Act,	No.	15	of	1987	to	the	following	
decision	taken	by	the	Secretary	of	Tavalama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	under	decision	No.	2023/10/17/100	dated	17.10.2023	to	
declare Tavalama North 227 V illage O fficer	domain	as	a	developed	area	It	is	hereby	announced	to	the	public	that	Sandipani	
Nilmini	Dammullage	Wanama	has	been	approved	as	Assistant	Local	Government	Commissioner/	Deputy	Local	Government	
Commissioner in terms of S ub-secton (1).
      
	 Sandipani	Nilmini	Dammullage,	
	 Assistant	Commissioner	of	Local	Government	/	Deputy,
 Comissioner of Local Government - Galle.
On January 26, 2024,
At	the	Galle	Local	Government	Assistant	Commissioner’s	Office.
The abOVe deCiSiON
In	terms	of	Section	(1)	of	Section	134	of	the	Darana	Local	Council	Act,	No.	15	of		1987,	Thawalama	North	-	
227 darana Grama Niladhari division as described in the following sub-document, located within the jurisdiction of the 
Thawalama regional Council, to be declared as a developed area, for that, i have decided to obtain the approval of the 
assistant Commissioner of Galle district Local Government and in accordance with the powers assigned to me in terms of 
Section 9(3) of the regional Council act.
The abOVe SCheduLe
Village	Officer	 Domain	 of	 Thawalama	 North	 bearing	 No.	 227	 situated	 within	 the	 jurisdiction	 of	 the	 said	 
Thawalama regional Council in the Galle district of the Southern Province,
To	the	North	-	from	the	boundaries	of	the	Grama	Niladhari	Domain	of	Habarakad	East,
To the South - hiniduma North from the domain of Grama Niladhari,
To	the	East	-	Thawalama	Mukalana	and	Thawalama	South	within	the	domain	of	Grama	Niladhari,
To	the	West	-	the	area	bounded	by	Batahena	and	Habarakada	Grama	Niladhari	domain.
02-97
oBt AInInG  the APProV AL of mInISter for ASSeSSment IntereSt
order of  minister in charge of subject
I	approve	the	decision	taken	by	W.M.Sisil	Wijesinghe,	S ecretary	and	Officer	executing	powers	daty	&	functions	to	impose	
and charge 3% annual assessment tax of annual value of property situated within developed area in rajanganaya Pradeshiya 
Sabha limit in terms of powers vested in him under Sec.134 (1) read with Sec. 9 (3) of Pradeshiya Sabha a ct,	No.	15	of	1987.
	 Maheepala	Herath,
 The governor,
 Minister in Charge of subject of Local Government, 
 North  Central Province,
 anuradhapura. 
Governor’s	Office	-	North	Central	Province.
02-418

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette  of  the  democratIc  SocIalISt  rePuBlIc  of  SrI   lanka – 09.02.2024
140
rAjGAmA   LocAL   councIL
Declaration as a developed area
iN  accordance with the powers given to the L ocal C ouncil under S ub-section 134(1) of the L ocal Council a ct numbered 
15	of	1987	read	with	S ection 9(3) of the said act, the secretary of the rajgama L ocal C ouncil	took	decision	Number	
24/1/16/3200	on	January	16,	2024.	This	is	to	inform	the	public	that	the	following	decision	has	been	approved	by	S andeepani 
Nilmini	Dammullage,	acting	as	assistant	Commissioner	of	Local	Government	/	Deputy	Commissioner	of	Local	Government	
in Galle administrative district in accordance with the powers given to the assistant Commissioner of Local Government 
by S ub-section 134(1) of the said act. will be announced.
	 Sandeepani	Nilmini	Dammullage,
 assistant Commissioner of Local Government – Galle. 
On 16th January, 2024,
at the Galle Local Government assistant Commissioner’s O ffice.
The abOVe deCiSiON
In	terms	of	Section	134(1)	of	the	Local	Council	Act,	No.	15	of	1987	,	I	have	decided	to	declare	the	entire	J urisdiction 
of	the	Rajgama	Local	Council	as	a	developed	area,	as	described	in	the	sub-document	below,	and	to	seek	the	approval	of	the	
a ssistant	Commissioner	of	Local		Government/	Deputy	Commissioner	of	Local	Government.	The	above	S chedule
administrative Limits of rajgama Pradeshiya Sabha (Part l)
To the North: from the point bordering the right wall of udugalpitiya dream Village hotel and going to the sea, 
along the right wall of dream Village hotel, along the Galle Colombo highway, along Good Shed Mawatha to rathgam 
Lagoon	and	from	there	along	the	west	bank	of	Rathgama
Lagoon	to	the	field	behind	the	Twenty	Acre	Temple.	With	a	drawn	line,
East:	From	that	point	along	the	paddy	field	behind	Akkaravissa	temple	to	Sirikandura	watta	gate	,	from	there	to	
ambagaha J unction	on	Pinkanda	,	Ginmellagaha	Road,	From	that	Point	to	Ironwala	C anal, from there to waduguda on the 
western border of horagampita C anal, then along the remaining part of horapita C anal where it meets Ging Ganga by a line 
drawn to the point,
To the right : by a line drawn from the point where the horagampita C anal falls into the Ging G anga to the Point 
where the Ging Ganga falls into the sea,
To the west: The area Surrounded by a line drawn from the point where the Ging Ganga falls into the sea, 
dodanduwa, u dugalpitiya, to the point that borders the wall on the right side of the dream Village hotel and goes to the 
sea and,
administrative Limits of rajgama Pradeshiya Sabha (part ii)
To the North: from the point bordering the right wall of udugalpitiya dream V illage hotel and going to the sea, 
along the right wall of dream V illage hotel, along the Galle Colombo highway, along Good Shed Mawatha to rathgam 
Lagoon	and	from	there	along	the	west	bank	of	Rathgama	Lagoon	to	the	field	behind	the	Twenty	Acre	Temple.	With	a	drawn	
line,
East:		From	that	point	along	the	paddy	field	behind	Akkaravissa	temple	to	Sirikandura	watta	gate,	from	there	to	
ambagaha J unction	on	Pinkanda,	Ginmellagaha	r oad,from that point to lronwala canal, from there to w aduguda on the 
western border of horagampita C anal, then along the remaining part of horapita C anal where it meets Ging Ganga by a line 
drawn to the point,

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'09
Part IV (B) – Gazette  of  the  democratIc  SocIalISt  rePuBlIc  of  SrI   lanka – 09.02.2024
141
To the right: by a line drawn from the point where the horagampita C anal falls into the Ging Ganga to the point 
where the Ging Ganga f alls into the sea,
To the west: The area surrounded by a line drawn from the point where the Ging Ganga f alls into the sea, dodanduwa,  
udugalpitiya, to the point that borders the wall on the right side of the dream Village hotel and goes to the sea and,
administrative Limits of S ub	Office	of	Rajgama	Pradeshiya	Sabha:
02-98
PrADeShIy A  SABhA  IBBAGAmuWA
Issuing a License for the maintenance of a new Beef Stall for the year 2024
by  virtue of powers vested under Section 7(2) of butchers Ordinance, i hereby notify that the person whose name is 
indicated in the following Schedule has submitted me an application requesting a license for running a beef Stall at the place 
specified	therein	and	if	any	person	resided	within	the	area	of	authority	of	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Ibbagamuwa	has	any	objection	
with	regard	to	the	issue	of	the	said	license,	he/she	should	forward	such	objection	in	writing	in	duplicate	within	07	days	from	
the date of publication of this notice in Part iv(b) of the Gazette	Paper	of	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka.
	 H.	M.	Nirosha	Herath,
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha,
 ibbagamuwa. 
24th of January, 2024,
At	the	Office	of	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Ibbagamuwa.
SCheduLe
Name address of the person
who has requested to maintain
the Beef Stall
Address and identification
details of the place where the
Beef stall is proposed to be run
Grama Niladhari Division and 
Number
Mr.	M.	Y.	M.	Farook,
Madige,
Mudundoowa.
I.	C.	Number	(IBG/520712/8347)
The shop belonging to Mr. idass 
Saparulla located in front of Madige, 
Mudunduwa.
526-Dethili	Anga
02-94
PriNTed  a T   The  deP ar TMeNT   Of  GOVerNMeNT   PriNTiNG ,  Sri  LaNka.