

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1745
1745
wxl 1"878 - 2014 wf.daia;= ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'08'29
No. 1,878 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 29, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1748
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1755
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th September, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th
September, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—  Pradeshiya Sabha (Amendment) and Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Bills were published as supplements to
the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 01, 2014.
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,877 of 22.08.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1746
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1747
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1748
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th of September,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Hikkaduwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Wellabadapattu Division and Births General, District Secretariat,
and Deaths of Madampe Division Galle.
Galle Nagoda Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Gangabada Pattu Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Mapalagama Galle.
Athumale Division.
08–899
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1749
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th of September,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Uwaparanagama Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Gampaha Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Udukinda Badulla.
Division (Kandyan/General)
08–889
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1750
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 22nd of September,
2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
04th August, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Udapalatha Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Legundeniya Division and Post of General, District Secretariat, Kandy.
Marriage Registrar of Udapalatha
(Kandyan/General)
08–888
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th of September,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
08th August, 2014.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1751
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Galgamuwa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Walpaluwa Area, Wanni General, District Secretariat,
Hathpattuwa Division Kurunegala.
08–898
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
MATALE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 22nd of September,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
04th August, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matale Ukuwela Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Warakamura Area in Matale South General, District Secretariat,
Division Matale.
08–890

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1752
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
(Land Title Settlement Department)
Public Service Commission
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER
(GRADE III OF THE CATEGORY OF EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS) ON OPEN BASIS
APPLICATION are invited from eligible Sri Lanka citizens who
posses is below mentioned qualifications for the Post of Legal Officer
in Land Settlement Department.
1. Method of Recruitment .– Eligible applicants who score the
highest marks at a Structured interview held by board of interviewers
appointed by the Public Service Commission will be appointed for
the post depending on the number of vacancies existing. The
Structured interview will be conducted as per the marking scheme
approved by the Public Service Commission. (mentioned under
No. 06).
2. Qualifications :
(i) Educational/Professional Qualifications. Being an
Attorney-at-Law in the Supreme Court/Should possess
a degree obtained by the University Grants Commission.
(ii) Should have at least 03 years of active professional
experience after taking at as an Attorney-at-Law at the
Supreme Court.
(iii) Physical Fitness.– Every applicant should be in a befitting
physical and mental condition to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and to perform the duties of the post satisfactorily.
(iv) Other :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
* Should be of an excellent moral character.
* Applicants should have completed all the
qualifications required for the recruitment of the
post at the closing date of calling of applications.
* Should have excellent command in English
Language.
3. Terms of employing in the service and conditions of service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected
candidates should contribute for the Widows/Widowers
and Orphan's Pension Scheme.
(ii) Y our appointment is subject to probation period of three
years. You should pass the it Efficiency Bar Examination
within 3 years of recruitment for the post of Legal Officer
(Grade III) as mentioned in the Recruitment Procedure.
(iii) You will also be required to acquire the related language
proficiency as per the Public Administration Circular No.
07/20074 and consequent circular.
(iv) This appointment is subject to the provision of
Establishment Code and procedural Regulation of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
4. Age Limit.– Applicants should be not less than 21 years old
and not more than 45 years old at the closing date of application.
5. Salary Scale.– The salary scale attached to this post is Rs.
22,935 - 10x645 - 8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555. Salary Code No.
SL-1-2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 dated
25.04.2006. 
6. Structural interview will be based on the marking scheme mentioned below :
Subject Maximum
Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications LLB Degree obtained from a recognized University : 20
For a 1st class pass 20
For a 2nd class upper pass 15
For a 2nd class lower pass 10
For a 1st class pass in the final year of the Law College 15
For a 2nd class pass in the final year of the Law College 10
Note.– 10 marks should be given only if the find Examination is passed with "Honours" category.
Marks are given only for the highest qualifications achieved. (For either the degree
qualification or for the Law College qualification).
02. Additional Professional Qualification : 15
For a Postgraduate Diploma Course with a duration of not less than a year offered by a recognized
institution on the related field or for a postgraduate Legal Diploma. (per as marks for each Diploma Course)
For a diploma course with a duration not less than six months offered by a recognized institution on
the related field (per 02 marks for each course)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1753
03. Additional Experience : 30
Experience as an Attorney-at-law in public or Private Sector - Maximum mark - 30 (per five mark for
a year) Except the three years served as an Attorney-at-law to obtain the basic qualification)
Additional Experience should be confirmed through a certificate of an Attorney-at-law/president's
counsel or of a judge who has completed 20 years in service
04. Computer Literacy : 15
Information Technology as a main subject pursued in a degree course offered by a University recognized 15
by the University Grants Commission. For a diploma course in Information Technology with a duration
not less than 06 month offered by a Government Approved Institution. 10
For a certificate course in Information Technology with a duration of not less than 03 months offered 5
by a government approved institution
05. English Language Competence : 15
Postgraduate Degree pursued in the English Medium. (should have answered all the relevant question 15
papers in the English Medium)
A diploma for English Language obtained from a University or a Government Institute recognized 10
by the University Grants Commission
A certificate for English Language obtained from a University or a government institute recognized 05
by the University Grant Commission
06. Merit displayed at the interview 05
Total 100
Subject Maximum
Marks
07. Identity of the Candidates. – Only the applicants whose
applications are complete in every aspect will be summoned for the
interview. The originals of all the certificates and their duty certified
copies must be presented of the interview.
The following documents of identity are accepted in proving the
candidates identity at the interview :
(i) The Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Persons Registration.
(ii) A valid passport.
08. ( a) Applications must be forwarded by registered post to
reach the address given below on or before 25th of
September, 2014 :
The Commissioner General of Land Title Settlement,
Land Title Settlement Department,
No. 1200/6, Mihikatha Medura,
Rajamalwattha Road,
Battaramulla.
(b) The specimen of the application is given at the end of
this notice. The applicants should prepare their
applications using the either sides of an A4 paper with
numbers 1-14 on the first page and the rest on the second
page.
(c) "Post of Legal Officers of the Land Title Settlement
Department" must be written on the top left hand corner
of the envelope containing the application.
(d) The applicant's signature on the application must be
attested by a principal of a state school/A Justice of
Peace/a Commissioner of the Public Notary/a
Commissioned Officer of the Sri Lanka Army or an
Officer in a permanent post drawing a monthly
consolidated salary of Rs. 22,935.
(e) The applicants already employed in the Government
Service or in the Provincial Government Service must
forward their applications through the respective Head
of the Department.
(f) The applications that do not comply with the format of
the specimen given here, will be rejected we do not
entertain any complaint with regard to the loss and delay
of applications.
09. Providing false Information.– If in the event some information
provide on the application sent to us by you is found to be false or
inaccurate before the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled.
If such information is disclosed after the recruitment, actions will
be taker to dismiss you from service under the procedures to be
adopted with regard to such disclosure.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1754
10. The Public Services Commission reserves the right to fill or
not to fill this vacancy :
Under the order of the Public Services Commission,
GAMINI ILLANGARATHANA,
The Commissioner General of
Land Title Settlement.
Land Title Settlement Department,
No. 1200/6, Mihikatha Medura,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION
APPLICATION FORM FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF LAND TITLE SETTLEMENT
No. :.........................
(For office use only)
01. ( a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Name with initials (in block capital letters) :––––––––––.
(b) Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Full Name (in block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Permanent Address (in block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
03. Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
04. NIC No. :––––––––––––.
05. Sex :––––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of acceptance of applications :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
08. Nationality :––––––––––––.
09. Marital Status :––––––––––––.
10. Particulars of the Degree :
University :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––––.
11. Date on which you made oaths as the lawyer :––––––––––––.
12. Professional Experience as a lawyer : Years :––––––––––––.
13. Other Educational Qualifications :––––––––––––.
14. Language proficiency (tick in the appropriate law) :
Excellent Good A verage Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English
15. Certificate of the Applicant :
I declare that the particulars furnished herein are true and accurate
and I certify that I have not been dismissed from Pubilc Service, or
retired as a merciful alternative for inefficiency or that I have not
been deemed to have vacated my post. I am aware that I will be
disqualified for this post if any particular furnished by me is found
to be false or inaccurate prior to my appointment and I will be
subject to be dismissed from service without any compensation if
such a situation is revealed after my appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
16. Attestation :
I certify that the undersigned ........................ of ................... is
personally known to be me and he/she put his/her signature before
me on this date of .......................... signature of Attestor.
Attestor's
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
17. Certificate of the Head of the Department for the applicants of
the Public Service :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................... serves as a
......................... in this Ministry/Department on permanent/
temporary/casual basis and he/she can be/cannot be released from
service if he/she is selected for this post.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––––.
(Rubber Stamp)
08–1076

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1755
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO GRADE III  OF  PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE - 2013(2014)
IT is hereby notified that a limited competitive examination for
recruitment to Grade III of Public Management Assistants' Service
2013(2014) will be held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations in the month of December 2014.
2.0 This examination will be held in the following towns for the
minor employees belong to Public Service. The list of towns and
the respective town numbers are furnished below. The
Commissioner - General of Examinations may, at his discretion,
cancel any of the examination centers owing to the insufficient
number of candidates or another reason and decide an alternative
center, taking the candidates' second preference into consideration.
Town  Town Town  Town
No. No.
Colombo 01 Trincomalee 14
Gampaha 02 Batticaloa 15
Kalutara 03 Ampara 16
Matale 04 Puttalam 17
Kandy 05 Kurunegala 18
Nuwara Eliya 06 Anuradhapura 19
Galle 07 Polonnaruwa 20
Matara 08 Badulla 21
Hambanthota 09 Monaragala 22
Jaffna 10 Kegalle 23
Mannar 11 Ratnapura 24
Mulativu 12 Kilinochchi 25
Vavuniya 13
3.0 (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner -
General of Examinations and the candidates shall be
bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by him
for conducting the examination and issuance of results.
his decision will be the final.
(ii) Rules and regulations for candidates are provided
separately in the Gazette notification. Candidates are
liable to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, for breach of these rules.
4.0 Medium in which candidates should sit the examination. –
This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil & English languages.
Candidates may sit this examination in only one language medium
of their preference. Candidates will not be allowed to change the
language medium once it is selected.
5.0 Salary.– As per the Public Administration Circular No.
06/2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007, the monthly salary scale applicable
to Grade III, II and I of the Public Management Assistants' Service
is Rs. 13,990 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170, 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 - Rs. 23,230.
To obtain above Rs. 15,440 promoting to Class II is required and
promotion to Class I is necessary to obtain above Rs. 17,310.
Note.– They will be granted incremental credit subject to the
incremental credit rules prevailing at the time of receiving
appointment.
6.0 Conditions of Service :–
(i) Number of appointments and the effective date of
appointments shall be determined by the appointing
authority. The appointing authority reserves the right
to refrain from filling of some or all vacancies.
(ii) Selected candidates shall be appointed to a post in Grade
III subject to general conditions governing the
appointments in the Public Service, terms and conditions
set out by the Pubilc Management Assistants' Service
Minute pubilshed in the Gazette Extraordinary  of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.
1,840/34 dated 11.12.2013, amendment already made
and will be made thereto in due course to the said service
minute, provisions of the Establishments Code and
Financial Regulations and Procedural Rules of the Public
Service Commission published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
(iii) Candidates who are successful in this examination will
be appointed on an acting basis for one year from the
date of the appointment. Their posts will be permanent
and pensionable. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall
be passed within 03 years from the date of recruitment
to Grade III of Public Management Assistants' Service,
as mentioned in the service minute.
(iv) Candidates who receive appointments on the results of
the examination will be liable to transfer and may be
posted to any station in Sri Lanka.
(v) Official language.– Officers who have been appointed
to service in a language other than any official language
shall acquire proficiency in one of the official languages
before confirmation in the service.
Other Official Language.– Proficiency in the Second
Official Language should be achieved before lapse of 05
years from the date of appointment in terms of the
provisions of Public Administration Circular 01/2014
and circulars consequent to it.
7.0 Selections for Appointments.– Only the minor employees in
Public Service will be admitted for the competitive examination.
After selecting candidates who secure 40% or more marks for each
paper of the examination, final selections will be made on merit
basis depending on the aggregate of their marks.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1756
Note.– The officers in Provincial Public Service are not
allowed to sit for this examination.
8.0 Eligibility.– To be eligible to compete in this examination,
every applicant shall :
(i) Shall be officers who are holding permanent posts in
Public Service and receiving the salary at primary level
under salary codes of PL category and officers receiving
salary under salary Code MN-01-2006A as per Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006.
(ii) Shall have completed at least a continuous and
satisfactory service of 05 years immediately preceding
the closing date of application, which fact shall be
certified by the Head of the Department.
(iii) Shall have passed the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination in not less than six (06)
subjects including Language/Literature and Arithmetic/
Pure Mathematics/Elementary Mathematics/
Commercial Arithmetic with credits passes for two
subjects 
at one sitting.
(iv) Candidates shall be of an excellent character.
(v) All the candidates shal have the physical and mental
fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform
the duties of the post.
(vi) All qualifications prescribed for recruitment to the post
shall be completed as at 29th of September 2014.
Note:-
(1) Period of service served prior to receiving a permanent
appointment or any period of service or training period
covered by a candidate prior to the appointment to a
certain post on permanent basis or a training period
which shall have to be completed as a condition for
appointment to a certain post on permanent basis shall
not be considered for the 05 years period mentioned in
(ii) above. Further the period of service under casual/
temporary basis completed by a candidate before his
appointment to a certain post on permanent basis shall
not be taken into account when calculating the qualifying
05 year period mentioned in (ii) above.
(2) The five-year satisfactory service period referred to in
section (ii) above will be determined on the following
basis. Candidates who have fulfilled the following
requirements will be considered as having a satisfactory
service for the purpose of this examination.
(a) Shall have earned all the salary increments during
the five years immediately preceding the date of
receiving applications.
(b) Shall not be subjected to any disciplinary
punishment during the five years immediately
preceding the date of receiving applications.
(3) The Head of Department should be prepared to release
the officer if he/she is selected for an appointment.
(4) Employees who are engaged in semi-technical work,
who have been trained on a certain task or who have
been given special training by the government will not
be eligible to sit this examination. For example,
employees in engineering and industrial grades and
Public Health Officers in the Department of Health
will not be eligible to sit for this examination. In case
there are any doubts as to whether a particular
employee is eligible or not, the applicant should consult
his department, which, in turn, will consult the
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
When consulting the Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs regarding the eligibility of any
employee to sit this examination, the Department
concerned should submit a comprehensive description
of the job held by the employee with the salary scale
and state whether the applicant had been given any
training to equip himself to hold the job and the nature
and duration of such training, if any.
(5) Temporary and casual employees in public service,
employees of Boards, Corporations and similar bodies
are not eligible to compete in this examination.
(6) Any other employee in Postal Department, except the
minor employees in the Combined Services are not
eligible to appear for this examination.
(7) The candidates, before forwarding their applications,
should satisfy themselves that they have fulfilled all
the requirements prescribed herein. Candidates who
present themselves for the examination without
fulfilling the prescribed requirements will be
disqualified, even if they attain a required standard of
marks in the examination.
9.0 Applications :-
 (a) (i) Application forms should be prepared using A4 (21cm
x 29cm) (Normal Half sheet) size papers, in such a
manner that paragraphs from No. 01 to 03 appear on
the first page and the paragraphs from No. 4 onwards
on the other pages.
(ii) The title of the examination shuld be indicated in
English Language as well, in the application forms
prepared in Sinhala and Tamil languages. A specimen
form of application for admission to this examination
is appended to this notification. The application
should be prepared only as per the specimen appended

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1757
to this and a candidate should not send more than one
application form. It is further informed that
photocopies or advanced copies should not be sent.
Relevant information should be given legibly by
candidate's own handwriting. Applications which are
incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the
specimen form will be rejected without any notice. It
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
completed application form. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the application
form perfected by him/herself complies with the
specimen given in the examination notice, as otherwise
the application may be rejected.
(iii) Appointments are issued to the selected candidates
strictly by the name with initials mentioned in the
application and therefore the name should be correctly
written following the specimen provided. It shall not
be allowed to change the name or include a part in the
name or remove a part at the issuance of appointments.
(b) Examination Fees. - The fee for this examination is
Rs. 500. This is payable at any District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat under revenue head 2003-02-13 of
the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt
obtained thus to the name of candidate should be affixed
firmly in the relevant cage on the application form (A
photo copy of the receipt should be kept with the applicant
for future use). The fee will not be refunded under any
circumstance while money orders and stamps will not be
accepted in respect of the fee.
(c) The application form must be completed correctly and
legibly in the candidates own handwriting and sent by
registered post to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
P. O. Box. 1503,
Colombo.
On or before 29.09.2014 through the Heads of
Departments in which the candidates are serving.
10.0  Heads of Departments are required to furnish a certificate
as indicated at the end of the application form. Any application
received after the due date will be rejected. The name of the
examination should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the form. If any candidate fails to comply
with this procedure, his/her application is liable to be rejected.
Candidates are requested to forward their applications to the Heads
of their Departments well in advance enabling them to forward the
applications to the Commissioner General of Examinations on or
before 29.09.2014.
The post and the service station of the candidate at the time of
applying for the examination will be applied for all the actions of
the examination. Any changes taken place after submitting
application will not be taken into consideration.
11.0  The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue a
copy of the examination time table along with the admission card to
all candidates whose applications have been received. Concurrent
to this, newspaper advertisement will be published by the
Commissioner General of Examinations, informing the same.
Candidates appearing for the examination should get the admission
card attested in advance and produce it to the supervisor of the
examination hall. Without such admission card, no candidate will be
allowed to sit for the examination. If the admission card is not
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should
be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner
specified in the advertisement. When informing, the name of the
examination applied for, full name, address and the NIC number of
the candidate shall be indicated. It would be advisable for candidates
outside Colombo to fax a letter of request along with a fax number
of the candidate to the department of examinations through the fax
number mentioning the notification for sending a copy of the
admission. Further, it would be advisable to keep a copy of the
application, copy of the receipt relevant to payment of examination
fee and the receipt of registration of the application to prove any
information requested by the Department of Examinations.
12.0  Admission to the examination does not constitute
acceptance of eligibility. Such admission will be subjected to
scrutinization at a later stage. The candidature of any applicant,
who is subsequently found to have been ineligible to compete at the
examination, is liable to cancelled at any stage prior to, during or
after the examination.
13.0  The results will be released to the Director-General of
Combined Services by the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
In addition to the above results will be informed to each candidate
by the Commissioner General of Examination by post or via the
website 
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
14.0 Identity of Candidates.- Candidates will be required-to prove
their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, any of the
following documents will be accepted :–
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
15.0 Heads of Departments should approve duty leave to
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations enabling them· to appear
for the exam. Travelling expenses are not payable.
16.0  Penalty for Furnishing False Information .- Candidates
should take care to furnish correct information when filling the
application form. As per the rules and regulations of the examination,
the candidature of any applicant may be cancelled prior to, during
or after the examination, if his/her ineligibility to sit for the
examination is disclosed. If any of the particulars furnished by a
candidate is found to be false at any stage he/she will be liable to
dismissal from the Public Service.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1758
17.0  Scheme of Examination.– The subjects of the examination
and the marks assigned to each subject are given below:
Subjects Maximum Pass Duration
Marks Mark
Language proficiency and 100 40 2 1/2 hours
Aptitude Test of
Management Assistants'
Service
Aptitude 100 40 1 hour
Language Proficiency and Aptitude test of Management
Assistants' Service (duration 2 1/2 hours) :
The question paper shall consist of subject related questions
designed to test the candidate's ability of expression,
comprehension, spellings, language and essay, drafting a
given letter, summarizing passages, expressing the idea of
several given sentences in one sentence making graph
based on the given data and use of simple grammar.
Questions designed to test the knowledge of the candidate
on basic rules and regulations applied in taking action
regarding the documents of an office and Management
Assistant's knoweldge on duties such as action to be
taken on a letter containing matters on which the officer
should take action.
Questions to test candidate's knowledge on the items used in
the office such as call-up diary, voucher, moving registers,
attendance registers, day stamp, official stamp and mail
bag and their use.
All questions should be answered.
Part I - Structural questions on comprehension in order to test
the language skills, summarization and essay writing.
(1 hour 15 minutes - 50 marks)
Part II - Short questions, structured questions and essays based
on a case, statement or paragraph in order to test the
aptitude for Management Assistants' Service. (1 hour
15 minutes - 50 marks)
Aptitude Test (Duration 1 hour) :
This paper shall consists of subject related questions designed
to test the candidates' skill at numbers, power of critical
reasoning and general intelligence.
This consists of 50 questions of multiple choice and short answer
model. (Duration 01 hour) All questions should be answered.
Note:-
(i) These question papers are designed to test the
candidate's aptitude and ability to undertake duties
of the service.
(ii) In all written answer papers, marks will be deducted
for spelling mistakes and illegible handwriting.
18.0  The decision of the Director General of Combined Service
will be final regarding any matter not provided for in this notice of
examination.
19.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala notification
shall prevail.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
15th of August, 2014.
Specimen Application Form
(For office use only)
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE - 2013(2014)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
Language medium of Examination (T own in which you intend
Sinhala - 2 to sit the examination as per
Tamil - 3 the Gazette notification).
English - 4 (It will not be allowed to
(indicate the relevant number in change this subsequently)
the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
eg.– GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1759
2.0 Place of Work and Address :
2.1 Name and address of office/Department/Institution :
–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
2.2 Name and address of office/Department/Institution :
–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1,         Male - 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year :                           Month :              Date :
3.3 National Identity Card No. :
3.4 Telephone No. :
4.0 Service particulars :
4.1 Name of the Department in which you are serving at present
:––––––––.
4.2 Ministry of Department to which it belongs :––––––––.
4.3 Designation of present post :––––––––––. .
4.4 Date of appointment to the present post :––––––––––.
4.5 Whether the present post is permanent or temporary
:––––––––––.
4.6 Whether confirmed in the present post :––––––––––.
4.7 The date on which you qualified for confirmation :––––––.
4.8 Reference No. and date of letter issued confirming you in
the present post :––––––––––.
4.9 Present annual salary (consolidated) :––––––––––.
4.10 Salary scale (Salary Code as per Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007) :- P. L.
1-2006A/P. L.-2-2006A/P.L.-3-2006A/MN-01-2006A
-cross off irrelevant words) :––––––––––.
4.11  Whether the present appointment is pensionable :–––––.
4.12 Period of service in the present post as at 29.09.2014 :
––––––––.
5.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the examination
fee:
(i) Office to which the fee was paid :––––––––––.
(ii) The date and number of the receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––––.
Affix the  relevant receipt firmly here.
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy
with the candidates)
I hereby certify that the information furnished here by me are
correct. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false or incorrect before appointment, I am liable to be
disqualified and if found after appointment, I am liable to be
dismissed. Further, I state that I am bound by the rules and
regulations and decisions taken to issuing of results imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for the conduct of
examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
(in the presence of the Head of Department).
Date :–––––––––.
Note.– The applicant should place his/her signature in the
presence of his/her Head of Department or an officer authorized to
sign on behalf of him.
Attestation of  Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... , employed at my
place of work and who is personally known to me, placed his/her
signature in my presence on ................................. .
––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp
of the person attesting.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department
I hereby certify,
(01) that this candidate (Mr./Mrs./Miss.) .................. is an
employee in this Department ;
(02) that he/she is holding a permanent post ;
(03) that he/she has been confirmed in a permanent post as at
29.09.2014 ;
(04) that he/she has been issued a letter confirming him/her in a
permanent post ;
(05) that he/she has completed at least 5 years of continuous
service on or before 29.09.2014 ;
(06) that he/she is drawing a salary / or is on a scale of salary
which is within the limits prescribed in para 8.0 of the
Gazette Notification ;
(07) that his/her work and conduct during the 5 years
immediately prior to 29.09.2014 have been satisfactory ;
(08) that he/she could be released from his/her present post, if
selected for an appointment on the results of this
examination ;

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1760
(09) that the application bears a receipt to the value of Rs. 500 ;
(10) that the particulars given in his/her application have been
checked with records available in this departments and
that he/she is eligible to sit this examination according to
the regulations prescribed in the Gazette Notification
relating to this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
Head of Department.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Note :
(l) This certificate should be signed only by the Head of
Department or by a Staff Officer duly authorized to sign
on his behalf. The officer issuing the certificate should
satisfy himself that the contents of the certificate are
correct in all aspects.
(2) The application of any candidate who does not satisfy all
the requirements of eligibility should not be forwarded to
the Commissioner General of Examinations.
08–1066
–––––––––––––––––
OPEN   COMPETITIVE   EXAMINATION   FOR
RECRUITMENT   TO  GRADE  III   OF   PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT   ASSISTANTS'   SERVICE - 2013(2014)
IT is hereby notified that a Open Competitive Examination for
recruitment to the posts in class III of Public Management Assistants'
Service will be held by the Commissioner-General of Examinations
in the month of December 2014. The examination will be held in the
towns mentioned in the Schedule II. The expected town to sit for
the examination shall be selected as per that schedule and the town
expected to sit for the examination and the relevant number of the
town should be mentioned correctly according to the Schedule II.
2.0  Candidates who satisfy the prescribed qualifications will be
selected on merit, on the results of a written examination to be
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and on
the basis of district population ratio, to the posts in the Grade III of
Public Management Assistants' Service.
3.0 ( a) Number of persons to be appointed and effective date
of appointments wil be determined by the Appointing
Authority. Further, the Appointing Authority reserves
the right to refrain from filling some or all of the
vacancies.
(b) Selected candidates shall be appointed to a post in Grade
III subject to general conditions governing the
appointments in the Public Service, terms and conditions
set out by the Public Management Assistants' Service
Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1840/34
dated 11.12.2013, amendment already made and will be
made thereto in due course to the said service minute,
provisions of the Establishments Code and Financial
Regulations and Procedural Rules of the Public Service
Commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
(c) This appointmetn is subject to a probation period of
three years. The First Efficiency Bar Examination shall
be passed by the officer within a period of 03 years
after recruiting to Grade III of the Public Management
Assistants' Service as prescribed in the Service Minute.
(d) Prescribed official language proficiency shall be obtained
within 05 years of joining the service as per Public
Administration Circular 01/2014 and consequent
circulars.
4.0 Salary .– As per the Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(iv), dated 24.08.2007, monthly salary scale entitled
to  Class III, II and I of the Public Management Assistants' Service
is Rs. 13,990 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 - Rs. 23,230.
Promotion to Class II should be obtained to go beyond Rs. 15,440
whilst promotion to Class I will be required to go beyond
Rs. 17,310.
5.0 This post is permanent and pensionable.
6.0 Qualifications.– Following qualifications are applicable for
the recruitment to posts in Class III of Public Management
Assistants' Service.
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years of age on the closing date of applications,
(c) Should be of an excellent character,
(d) Shall be of an excellent moral character and physical
fitness to serve at any part of the island,
(e) Should have fulfilled the following educational
qualifications.
(1) Shall have passed six (06) subjects with credit passes
for four (04) subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/English
language and Mathematics at the General Certificate
of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination at one
sitting ;
and
(2) Shall have passed all the subjects in General Certificate
of Education (Advanced Level) at one sitting (except
the General paper and General English).
Note.– It is sufficient to have passed 03 subjects under the
old syllabus which was consisted of 04 subjects.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1761
N. B.– It is compulsory to have satisfied all qualifications
prescribed for the post by candidates on or before 29th
September 2014.
7.0 Selection on district population basis .– District name list is
indicated as schedule I. The district selected to compete for
vacancies and its number should be mentioned in the application
correctly according to the Schedule I.
(a) Recruitment to the service will strictly be on a
representative basis. A fixed number of vacancies will be
set apart for each district in proportion to its population.
Only the applicants from a particular district will be entitled
to complete for the number of vacancies to be filled in that
district.
(i) If the vacancies so allocated to a particular district
cannot be filled by the applicants who have applied
for that particular district and have satisfied the
quailfications, number of vacancies will be
redistributed among the adjoining districts in
proportion to population.
(ii) If the total number of vacancies to be filled is few and
the district population basis cannot be applied,
selection will be made on the order of merit.
(iii) Where the number of candidates who secure the
minimum marks required is less than the number of
vacancies available in a district, the district population
basis shall not be appleid for the selection.
(b) Eligibility for inclusion in a district. – At least one of the
following requirements should have been fulfilled by a
candidate to complete for the vacancies in any district.
(i) The candidate should have been born in the district ;
or
(ii) He should have been a permanent resident of the district
at least for three (03) continuous years within the five
(05) years immediately preceding the last date to fulfill
the eligibility qualifications for the examination ;
or
(iii) He should have received his secondary school education
within the district for five (05) continuous years.
Note :
1. In order to confirm the residence of the candidate who
is selected from the written examination, he/she is bound
to forward following documents, at the interview or
any time inquired.
(i) Birth Certificate.
(ii) Extracts from electoral registers confirming the
residence in continues three (03) years period and
the certificate of residence issued by Grama Niladari
duly counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.
(iii) School leaving certificate :
2. If the farther/mother of any candidate has been
employed in a transferable service of the
government or of a Provincial Public Service or of
a state corporation, such candidate will be allowed
to choose his own, or his father's/mother's place
of birth as his district. (At the interview or any
time candidates are required to forward couments
to prove the place of birth of the parents and that
they are public servants).
3. No candidate will be allowed to complete for
vacancies in more than one district. Once a
candidate declares a district of his choice as the
most preferred, it should remain irrevocable.
8.0 Three percent (3%) of the existing number of vacancies will
be reserved for persons with disabilities. Only 3% of the persons
with disabilities who secure highest marks in the examination and
qualify will be selectd for appointments. The minimum level of
marks candidates should score to be selected for appointemnt is
50%. A candidate selected for an appointment will be referred to a
Special Medical Board and, by a report obtained from a medical
specialist, he/she should establish the disablement and the fact
that, it does not hinder performance of duties of the respective
post.
Note.– The applicant should mention in the application that
he/she applies under disabled rehabilitation conditions. A
person who is not disabled should not imply himself/
herself as a disabled person.
9.0 Scheme of the examination :
(a) The examination will consist of two papers. This
examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. Candidates will not be allowed to change language
medium applied initially.
Marks Durations
(i) Language proficiency 100 2 1/2 hours
(ii) Aptitude 100 1 hour
Language Proficiency.– This paper will consist of subject
related questions designed to test the candidates' ability
of expression, comprehension, spelling, language and
essay, drafting a letter provided, preparing graphs and
tables with data provided, summarizing the paragraphs
given, expressing the idea of several given sentences in
one sentence, the application of the simple rules of
grammar. All questions should be answered.
Aptitude.– This paper will consist of subject related
questions designed to test the candidates' skill at
numbers, power of critical reasoning and general
intelligence. This consists of 50 questions of Multiple
Choice and Short Answer model. All qeustions should
be answered.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1762
Note :–
(i) These papers will be designed to test the aptitude and
ability of the candidate to perform his official duties,
(ii) Marks will be deducted for unclear handwriting and
spelling mistakes in all the written question papers.
(b) Despite this being a competitive examination, candidates
are expected to secure at least 40% of the marks allocated
for each subject and an aggregate of at least 50% of the
total marks of the examination. Appointments will
strictly be made in the order of merit based on the total
marks scored, depending on the number of vacancies
set apart to be filled on the results of the competitive
examination.
(c) Examination Results.– Issuance of results to each
candidate will be made by the Commissioner General of
Examination by post or via  the website
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
10.0 Penalty for furnishing false information. – The candidate
should be very careful to include the correct particulars in the
application. If it is found that any candidate is not eligible according
to the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature
can be cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination.
Further, if it is found that any information furnished by a candidate
is false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public
service.
11.0 Examination Fees. – Examination fee is Rs. 500. This fee
can be paid to any Divisional or District Secretariat to be credited
to revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt obtained should be affixed in the relevant
cage of the application so as not to be detached. (It is advisable to
keep a photocopy of this receipt with the candidate). Under no
circumstance the examination fee will be refunded. Money orders
and stamps will not be accepted.
12.0 Applications .– Applications should be prepared in the
following manner using a paper size A4 (21x29cm) (normal
halfsheets).
(a) Paragraphs form 1 to 3 should appear on the first side of
the page,
(b) Paragraphs No. 4 onwards should appear on the other
pages,
(c) The title of the examination appearing in the specimen
should be indicated in English Language as well, on both
Sinhala and Tamil appilcation forms,
(d) When mentioning the name of the candidate at the 1.1 of
the application, the last part of the full name of the
applicant should be mentioned first and the initials of the
names belong to the surname and the initials of the other
parts of the name should be mentioned next.
Eg.– Full name as at 1.2 of the application : MATHURATA
GAMARALALAGE  BUDDHIKA  SARA TH
KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA.
It should be written as GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B.
S. K. in 1.1 of the application.
Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in
accordance with the specimen form, will be rejected without any
notice. Applications of those who have not paid examination fees
on or before due date will also be rejected. Candidates should be
responsible for any loss incurred by them due to incompleteness of
applications. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure
that the application form perfected by him/herself complies with
the specimen given in the examination notice and further, it would
be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application
form.
N. B.–1. Candidates are not allowed to change the town in
which they apply to sit the examination. At the
instances where the number of candidates apply
for a certain town, is not sufficient to hold an
examination centre, they will be directed to the town
which they have indicated as second preference.
However, if there is not sufficient number of
candidates even at the second centre, the candidates
will be directed to an adjoining city. The
Commissioner General of Examinations reserves the
right to make the final decision about the cities
where exam will be held.
2. As the appointments are issued to the selected
candidates strictly by the name with initials
mentioned in the application, the name should be
correctly written following the specimen provided.
it shall not be allowed to change the name or include
a part in the name or remove a part at the issuance
of appointments.
12.1 All applicants who have paid prescribed examination
fees and forwarded their applications on or before the
prescribed date will be allowed to sit the competitive
examination, by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, on the presumption that only those who
possess qualifications, indciated in the Gazette
Notification have forwarded their applications. Issuing
of an admission card to a candidate to sit the competitive
examination does not mean that the candidates' eligibility
for the post have been accepted. If it is found at the
interview that the applicant does not possess the required
qualifications prescribed in the Gazette Notification, his
or her candidature will be cancelled.
12.2 The words "Open Competitive Examination for
Recrutiment to Class III of Public Management
Assistants' Service - 2013(2014)" and the district for
which the candidate is competing should be written on
the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the
application is enclosed.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1763
12.3 Candidate's signature in the application form should have
been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public,
Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an officer
holding a Gazette post in the Police Service or an Officer
holding a permanent post in the Public Service whose
annual salary is Rs. 240,360 or above.
12.4 Applications duly perfected should be sent by registered
post to reach the following address on or before
29.09.2014.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Overseas Examination Branch,
P. O. Box. 1503,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
13.0 Sitting the Examination .– A notification will be published
in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. Here it would be advised to inquire form Department
of Examination with keeping the certified photocopies of the
application form and the cash receipt kept at your possession,
receipt of registration in hand and mentioning the name of the
Examination applied for, full name, NIC No. and address. It would
be advisable for candidates outside Colombo to fax a letter of request
along with a fax number of the candidate to the Department of
Examinations through the fax number mentioning the notification
for sending a copy of the admission.
All the candidates sit for the examination should attest his/her
signature put in the admission and should sit for the examination at
the examination center ordered to him/her. At the first instant the
admission in which the signature is attested should be presented to
the head of examination hall. A candidate who does not present the
admission card will not be permitted to sits for the exam.
14.0 Candidates should furnish one of the following documents
to the Supervisor of Examination in support of their identity :–
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department for
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
15. The issuing of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the required qualifications to sit
the examination. Candidates shall be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for the purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable
to be subjected to any punishment imposed by Commissioner
General of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
16.0 Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Director
General of Combined Services. All candidates are bound to comply
with the general examination rules published in this Gazette.
17.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English text of this examination notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
15th of August, 2014.
(For office use only)
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE - 2013(2014)
(Indicate the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
Language medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the correct number in the cage)
* Indicate the town and the town Number
number in which the candidate Town of
intends to sit the examination as the Town
per the Gazette Notification.
(See the schedule II for the towns 1.
where the examination centers are
located and for the respective 2.
numbers)
* The district in which you select to
complete for vacancies as per District District
para 7.0 of the Gazette notification. No.
(See the schedule I for the numbers
of districts. Indicate the number
and the district in the relevant cage)
* Are you sitting this examination
under the conditions laid down Yes - 1
in para 8.0 of the Gazette No. - 2
notification which are relevant to
disability ? (Indicate the number in
(Candidates may refer p ara 8.0 of the cage)
the Gazette Notification carefully
before filling this section since
only the differently able candidates
are required to mention "Yes" in
this part)

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1764
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
Eg.– GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B. S. K..
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Number of the N. I. C. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address  :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Male - 0              Female - 1
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year :                           Month :              Date :
3.3 Age as at 29.09.2014 :
Years :                           Months :              Days :
3.4 Telephone No. :
4.0 4.1 Since when you have been residing in the district ? :––––––.
4.2 Divisional Secretary's/Assistant Government Agent's
Division :––––––––––.
4.3 Grama Niladhari Division  :––––––––––..
5.0 Educational Qualifications :
5.1 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of Candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
5.2 Particulars of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of Candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.3 If possessing a degree from a recognized University :
(i) Name of the University :––––––––––.
(ii) Degree :––––––––––.
(iii) Year of Examination :––––––––––.
6.0 Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
7.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of
Law ? (Indicate 3 in the relevant cage) (Indicate particulars,
if the answer is yes) :
Yes : No :
8.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the Examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment was made :––––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount :––––––––––.
Affix the  receipt firmly here.
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy
with the candidates)
9.0 Candidate's Certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree to suffer any loss that may cause as a
result of incompleteness of sections and/or provision of
erroneous information. I also state that all sections herein
have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false I am liable to disqualification before
appointment and to dimissal from service if the inaccuracy
is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations for the purpose
of holding this examination.
(d) I shall not change any information mentioned herein
subsequently.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1765
10.0 Attestation of  Applicant's Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............. .............. who
submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on .............................. and
further the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and
pasted the receipt on the applications.
––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting
the signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
S
CHEDULE - I
THE LIST OF THE NAMES OF DISTRICTS
District District Number
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mulativu 12
Vavuniya 13
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25
S
CHEDULE - II
TOWNS WHERE EXAMINATION CENTERS WILL BE LOCATED
District Town No. of the
Town
01. Colombo Kotahena 01
Maradana 02
Borella 03
Kurunduwatta 04
Bambalapitiya 05
Havelock Town 06
Nugegoda 07
Moratuwa 08
Piliyandala 09
Homagama 10
Maharagama 11
Hanwella 12
Avissawella 13
02. Gampaha Negombo 14
Minuwangoda 15
Divulapitiya 16
V eyangoda 17
Gampaha 18
Ja-Ela 19
Wattala 20
Kelaniya 21
Dompe 22
03. Kalutara Horana 23
Panadura 24
Kalutara 25
Matugama 26
Aluthgama 27
04. Matale Matale 28
Galewela 29
Naula 30
Laggala Pallegama 31
05. Kandy Kandy 32
Katugastota 33
Teldeniya 34
Wattegama 35
Nugawela 36
Galagedara 37
Gampola 38
06. Nuwara Eliya Hedunuwewa 39
Nuwara Eliya 40
Watumulla 41

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1766
Hatton 42
Ginigathhena 43
07. Galle Ambalangoda 44
Galle 45
Baddegama 46
08. Matara W eligama 47
Matara 48
Kamburupitiya 49
Hakmana 50
Deiyandara 51
Dikwella 52
Akuressa 53
Kotopola 54
09. Hambantota Beliatta 55
Walasmulla 56
Weeraketiya 57
Tangalle 58
Ambalantota 59
Hambantota 60
Tissamaharama 61
10. Jaffna Chavakachcheri 62
Jaffna 63
Thellipallai 64
Point Pedro 65
11. Mannar Mannar 66
Murukkan 67
12. Mullativu Mullativu 68
13. Vavuniya Vavuniya 69
14. Trincomalee Kantalai 70
Trincomalee 71
Muttur 72
Padavi Parakramapura 73
Kinniya 74
15. Batticaloa Batticaloa 75
Eravur 76
Kathankudi 77
16. Ampara Ampara 78
Serankada 79
Kalmunai 80
Akkaraeipattu 81
Sammanthurai 82
District Town No. of the
Town
17. Puttalam W ennappuwa 83
Madampe 84
Chilaw 85
Puttalam 86
18. Kurunegala Kuliyapitiya 87
Bingiriya 88
Narammala 89
Polgahawela 90
Kurunegala 91
Ibbagamuwa 92
Dodangaslanda 93
Morathiha 94
Nikaweratiya 95
Maho 96
19. Anuradhapura Medawachchiya 97
Kekirawa 98
Anuradhapura 99
Galenbindunuwewa 100
Kahatagasdigiliya 101
20. Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa 102
Hingurakgoda 103
21. Badulla Bandarawela 104
Welimada 105
Badulla 106
Passara 107
Mahiyanganaya 108
Girandurukotte 109
Hasalaka 110
22. Monaragala Bibile 111
Monaragala 112
Wellawaya 113
23. Kegalle Kegalle 114
Rambukkana 115
Mawanella 116
Ruwanwella 117
24. Ratnapura Eheliyagoda 118
Ratnapura 119
Pelmadulla 120
Balangoda 121
Kalawana 122
Embilipitiya 123
25. Kilinochchi Kilinochchi 124
Pallai 125
08–1067
District Town No. of the
Town

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2014
1767
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
AMENDMENT
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of Teacher Assistants based on Schools for
Estate related Schools of Tamil Medium - 2014
IN the Paragraph No. 09 of above mentioned notice of examination published in the Gazette No. 1875 dated 08.08.2014.
The Commissioner General of examinations' income vote has been incorrectly published as 2013-02-13.
It should be corrected to read as 2003-02-13.
M. K
ODIPPILIARACHCHI,
Senior Assistant Secretary,
(Teachers' Establishment),
For the Secretary of Education.
08–116