

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2013
99
99
wxl 1"795 - 2013 ckjdß 24 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'01'24
No. 1,795 – THURSDAY , JANUARY 24, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 102
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 102
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th February, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st
February, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,794 of 18.01.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2013
100
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2013
101
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2013
102
Posts – Vacant
POLICE   HEADQUARTERS  -   COLOMBO
Amendment regarding the Post of Sub-inspector of Police as per Gazette No. 1,785
dated 16.11.2012 Police Department
UNDER the Section of I:(IIA) as per the Government Gazette No. 1,785 dated 16.11.2012 published to pertaining to fill the vacancies
of the Sub-inspector of Police, closing date has been extended till 25.02.2013.
Inspector General of Police.
08th January, 2013.
01–679
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH   AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Post of Entrepreneurship Development Training
Officer - Grade II, in Field/Office Category 2 - 2012(2013)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from qualified citizens of Sri
Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to
the post of Entrepreneurship Development Training Officer - Grade
II, in Field/office Category 2 of Small Enterprises Development
Division under Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development.
02. On the results of a written test conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations and on the results of a
trade test conducted by the Secretary of Ministry of Youth Affairs
and Skills Development, Candidates who have proved their
qualifications will be selected for appointment to the Posts in of
Entrepreneurship Development Training Officer - Grade II.
(According to the order of merit from among those who have passed
the written examination, a number equivalent to twice the number
of vacancies shall be called for the trade test.)
03. Number of persons to be appointed and effective date of
appointment will be determined by the Secretary to the Ministry.
The Secretary reserves the right to refrain from filling some or all of
the vacancies.
04. Salary scale .– Under Public Administration Circular No.
06/2006 MN 5-2006(A) Rs. 16,720 - 320 x 10 -365 x11 -450x15 -
Rs. 30,685.
The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 03
years from the date of appointment and proficiency of Second
Official Language should be achieved before the lapse of 05 years
from the date of appointment as per Public Administration Circular
No. 07/2007.
05. This post is permanent and pensionable.
06. Qualifications :
06.1 Educational qualifications .– Candiadte should have
obtained a four year Special Degree with a class in
Economics, Commerce, Management, Business
Administration, Sociology, Statistics, Information
Technology or Agriculture from a University recognized
by the University Grants Commission. Persons whose
degree results are pending are not eligible to apply.
06.2 Physical Fitness. – All candidates should be physical
and mental fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanak and
discharge duties of the post.
06.3 Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be of excellent and moral character ;
(iii) Should fulfill all the requisite qualifications as
specified in the notification of calling applications/
Gazette before the closing date in every aspect.
07. Age Limit.– Should be not less than 21 years and not more
than 35 years of age on the closing date of applications.
08. 08.1 Method of Recruitemnt.– Written test will be held only
in Colombo at the end of the month of March 2013.
08.2 Scheme of Examination :
(i) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English medium. The language media of
examination indicated initially shall not be allowed
to change subsequently.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2013
103
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the
examination in one and the same langauge.
(iii) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid
down by the Commissioner - General of
Examinations. If a candidate violates any of those
rules, he or she is liable to a punishment at the
discretion of the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(iv) In the event of any inconsistency between the
notice pubilshed in Sinhala and Tamil langauges,
the notice published in Sinhala medium shall
prevail.
08.3 Subjects of the Examination. – The written test consists of
two question papers :
Subject Duration Maximum Pass
Marks Marks
01. Comprehension 01 hour 30 minutes 100 40%
02. Intelligence Test 01 hour 100 40%
08.4 Syllabus .– Comprehension - Should answer all the
questions.
(i) Recognition the importance of the development of
small enterprises field, in National Economic
Development.
(ii) Identify business opportunities compatible with
national development.
(iii) Directing the entrepreneurs by identifying local
resources, national and international market
opportunities.
(iv) Identifying skilled entrepreneurs and direct them to
the field of small enterprise.
(v) Understanding of small and skillful enterprises.
(vi) Aware entrepreneurs in Managemnet and other
financial as well as supportive services.
(vii) Motivating youth in the field of entrepreneurship and
organizing necessary workshops in order to change
their attitudes and to encourage them.
(viii) Preparing business plans and projects required to
submit to the banks and financial institutions in
business affairs.
(ix) Collecting business information and giving them to
information seekers.
Intelligence Test .– A question paper of 50 multiple choice
questions and questions for short answers. All questions should be
answered.
To assess the candidate's capacity for comprehension and
intelligence by measuring the candidate's inferences and responses
to problems presented in verbal, numerical and spatial contexts.
08.5 Trade Test.– In order of merit among those who have
passed the written examination, a number equivalent to
twice the number of vacancies shall be called for the trade
test. Qualifications will be tested at the trade test and
marks that are given at the trade test are set out below :
Amount of Marks
Presentation Skills 30
Information Technology Literacy Test
20
Aggregae 50
09. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– Applicant should
take care to furnish correct information in filling the application
form. If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable
to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the examination,
as per the rules and regulations of the examination. If, during any
stage, it is found that a candidate has furnished false, he will be
liable for dismissal from the public service. The Commissioner-
General of Examinations will issue admission cards to every person
whose applications have been received. The issue of an admission
card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the
required qualifications to sit the examination. All candidates are
bound to abide by the ruels laid down by the Commissioner-General
of Examinations. If a candidate violates any of those rules, he or she
is liable to a punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner-
General of Examinations.
10. Examination Fee.– The examination fee is Rs. 800. It should
be paid at any District Secretairat/Divisional Secretariat to be credited
to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt obtained from the District Secretairat/
Divisional Secretariat should be pasted securely to the relevant
cage in the application form. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with the candidate for future reference). Under no
circumstances will the fee be refunded.
11. 11.1 Applications.– Application should be prepared using
papers of A4 size (21x29cm) (normal half sheets) in
such a way that :
(i) Para 01-03 appear on the first page ; and
(ii) Para 04 onwards on the other pages ;
(iii) Applications which are incomplete and not
prepared in accordance with the specimen form
will be rejected without any notice. Further, it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
completed application form with the applicant.
Candidate should responsible to make sure to
whether the application for is perfected in

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2013
104
compliance with the specimen form given in the
examination notice. If not so, the application will
be rejected. It is essential to mention the name of
the examination in English Language as well, in
applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil
medium.
(iv) Relevant information should be entered clearly in
candidate's own handwriting.
11.2 The completed application form for the examination
should be sent by Registered post to reach below
mentioned address on or before 26th February, 2013 :
Commissioner General of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
11.3 The words "Recruitment to the Post of
Entrepreneurship Development Training Officer
(Grade II) - 2012(2013) "should be clearly indicated
on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing
the application. Any application received after the
closing date will not be accepted.
11.4 The signature of the applicant in the application should
be ceritfied by a Principal of a Governemnt School/
Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Notary
Public/Commissioned Officer in the Army, Navy or
Air Force/A permanent Government Officer in receipt
of an annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or more.
11.5 A notice will be published in the newspapers by the
Department of Examinations as soon as admission
cards are issued to applicants. If the admission card is
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such an
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified
in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep
the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations : i. e. a certified
photocopy of the application form and the receipt
kept at your possession, receipt of registration and in
case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request
furnishing a fax number to which the admission cards
shuld be sent.
12. A candidate should submit any of the following documents
to the supervisor at the examination hall in order to prove his
identity :
(i) Valid National Identity card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
13. Secretary of Ministry of Youth Affairs and skills
Development will decide regarding any matter not provided here.
All candidates are abided to common examination rules and
regulations in this Gazette.
14. The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite qualifications to
sit the examination.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
K. A. T
HILAKARA THNA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and
Skills Development.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT  TO THE POST OF
ENTREPRENEURSHIP  DEVELOPMENT TRAINING OFFICER - GRADE II, IN
FIELD/OFFICE CATEGORY 2 IN THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS AND
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT - 2012(2013)
(For official use)
Language medium of examination :
Sinhala - 2 In letters
Tamil - 3 In number
English - 4
* Language selection for performing duties :
Sinhala - 2 In letters
Tamil - 3 In number
1.0 1.1 Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
Example : PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
1.5 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.01.2013
105
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
–––––––––––. (In English block capital letters)
2.4 Telephone No. (if available) :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 District where the applicant's permanent resident belongs
to :–––––––––––.
3.2 Divisional Secretary's Division :–––––––––––.
3.3 Period of residing :–––––––––––.
3.4 Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
4.0 4.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
4.2 Age as at 26.02.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.3 Whether Married/Single :
Single - 1
Married - 2
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
5.0  Educational Qualifications :
5.1 Particulars of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) The year and the month of the examination :––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
6.0  Particulars of Degree :
(i) Degree :–––––––––––.
(ii) Class :–––––––––––.
(iii) University :–––––––––––.
7.0  Professional qualifications :
(i) –––––––––––.
(ii) –––––––––––.
(iii) –––––––––––.
8.0  Whether you have been convinced in Court of Law ?
(Mark 
3 in the relevant cage)
Yes N o
(If yes, give details)
9.0  Examination fees :
(i) To which office, the examination fee is paid :––––––––.
(ii) Receipt Number and Date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid Rs. :–––––––––––.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate)
10.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree so suffer any loss as a result of any
information not being completed and/or any information
being erroneously being included here. Further, I state
that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any contained herein found to be false
I am liable to disqualification before appointment and
dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after
appointment.
(c) Further, I hereby agree to abide by all rules, imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
purpose of holding the Examination.
(d) I shall not change any information mentioned herein later.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11.0 ( a) Attestation of Candidate's Signature :
I hereby certify the Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................., who submits
this application, is known to me personally and he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on ............... and paid the prescribed
examination fees and pasted the receipt on the application.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting
 the signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the attesting officer :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the official frank)
Note.– Should be  certified by a Principal of a Government
School/Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Notary
Public/Commissioned Officer in the Army, Navy or Air Force/
a permanent Government Officer in receipt of an annual
salary of Rs. 240,360 or more.
01–775
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.