

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
————————
Presented by the Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs and
Constitutional Reforms on 17th of October, 2023
(Published in the Gazette on September 25, 2023)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
Price : Rs. 30.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
[Bill No. 209]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
BILL
A
OFFICE FOR NATIONAL UNITY AND
RECONCILIATION
to provide for the establishment of the Office for National Unity and
Reconciliation, in order to ensure and promote national unity and
reconciliation in Sri Lanka; to set out the powers, duties and functions thereof
 and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

<!-- page 2 -->

1Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
5
10
15
20
Short title
L.D.-O 16/2023
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR NATIONAL
UNITY AND RECONCILIATION, IN ORDER TO ENSURE AND PROMOTE
NATIONAL UNITY AND RECONCILIATION IN SRI LANKA; TO SET OUT THE
POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS THEREOF AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS having regard to the need and importance of
national unity and reconciliation in the socio-economic
development process in Sri Lanka and the commitment and
consensus for the achievement of the same;
AND WHEREAS it has become a matter of national
importance to establish an office for national unity and
reconciliation in order to assure to every citizen equal
opportunities in the economic, social, cultural and political
spheres whilst safeguarding the identity and to build an
inclusive society in which diversity will be respected and
all communities will coexist in harmony and unity;
NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1.  This Act may be cited as the Office for National Unity
and Reconciliation Act, No.      of 2023.
2.  The objects of the Act shall be -
(a) to promote and foster national unity, reconciliation
and peaceful coexistence among all persons in Sri
Lanka;
(b) to formulate and recommend to the Government, a
national policy on reconciliation and coexistence;
Preamble
Object s of
the Act

<!-- page 3 -->

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation2
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to facilitate the implementation of policies and
programmes in relation to national unity and
reconciliation that would help to build
understanding, harmony and unity among all
communities;
(d) to recommend to the Government, measures to be
taken to resolve matters causing tensions and
conflicts within and among the different
communities;
(e) to provide assistance to the  stakeholders working
on reconciliation and coexistence in order to
achieve coherence in peace and national unity
initiatives;  and
(f) to assist and facilitate the implementation of any
recommendation made by any reconciliation
endeavour established under any written law, or
any policy of the Government, for the purpose of
achieving national unity and reconciliation.
PART  I
E
STABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR NATIONAL UNITY AND
RECONCILIATION
3.  (1) There shall be established an office which shall be
called and known as the “Office for National Unity and
Reconciliation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Reconciliation Office”).
(2) The Reconciliation Office shall be a body corporate
having perpetual succession and a common seal and may
sue and be sued in its corporate name.
Establishment
of the Office
for National
Unity and
Reconciliation

<!-- page 4 -->

3Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
5
10
15
20
25
(3) The headquarters of the Reconciliation Office shall
be situated in Colombo and the Reconciliation Office may,
from time to time, establish such number of regional offices
as may be necessary, to achieve its mandate.
4.  (1) The Reconciliation Office shall consist of -
(a) one ex-officio member appointed by the President,
as nominated by the Minister, who shall be an
officer not below the rank of an Additional Secretary
of the Ministry of the Minister; and
(b) ten other members appointed by the President on
the recommendation of the Minister made in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (2)
(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed members”).
(2) In making recommendations for the appointment of
members referred to in paragraph ( b) of subsection (1), the
Minister shall have due regard to -
(a) ensure that the composition of the  Reconciliation
Office reflects the pluralistic nature of the Sri
Lankan society;
(b) ensure that the persons recommended to be
appointed as members of the Reconciliation Office
shall be persons having eminence and experience
in one or more of the fields of human rights law,
international humanitarian law, reconciliation and
social harmony, national unity, management,
project planning and regional development; and
(c) ensure that the persons recommended to be
appointed as members of the Reconciliation Office
are not subject to any disqualification specified in
section 5.
Constitution
of the
Reconciliation
Office
30

<!-- page 5 -->

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation4
5
10
15
20
25
(3) The President may, on the recommendation of the
Minister, appoint one member as the Chairperson of the
Reconciliation Office.
5.  A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Reconciliation Office, if
such person –
(a) is or become a Member of Parliament, of any
Provincial Council or of any Local Authority;
(b) is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(c) has been or is adjudged an insolvent by a court of
competent jurisdiction;
(d) has been or is found to have a conflict of interest,
which in the opinion of the President, formed on
the recommendation of the Minister, conflicts
with his duties as a member of the Reconciliation
Office;
(e) is or becomes unfit to continue in office by reason
of illness or other infirmity of mind or body;
(f) has been or is declared to be of unsound mind by a
court of competent jurisdiction;
(g) has served or is serving or a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka
or any other country; or
(h) absents himself from three consecutive meetings
without previously obtaining leave from the
Reconciliation Office.
Disqualification
to be a
member of
the
Reconciliation
Office

<!-- page 6 -->

5Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
5
10
15
20
25
6. (1) Every appointed member of the Reconciliation
Office shall, unless such member vacates office earlier by
death, resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three
years from the date of the appointment and unless such
member has been removed, shall be eligible for reappointment
for not more than one further term, whether consecutive or
otherwise.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the period in which a
member is appointed as an acting member shall not be
considered as a ‘term’ of office within the meaning of this
section.
7. (1)  The office of an appointed member of the
Reconciliation Office shall become vacant -
(a) upon the death of such member;
(b) upon such member resigning such office by writing
addressed to the President;
(c) upon such member being removed from office on
any ground specified in section 5; or
(d) on the expiration of such member’s term of office.
(2)  A member of the Reconciliation Office may be
removed from office by the President, if such person becomes
disqualified under section 5 to be a member of the
Reconciliation Office.
(3) The Chairperson may resign from the office of
Chairperson by letter addressed to the President.
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2),
the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period of
membership of the Reconciliation Office.
Term of
office of the
appointed
members
Removal and
resignation
of appointed
members

<!-- page 7 -->

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation6
5
10
15
20
25
(5) ( a) If the Chairperson of the Reconciliation Office
becomes temporarily unable to perform the duties of his
office, by reason of illness or other infirmity or due to absence
from Sri Lanka or any other reason, the President may, subject
to the provisions of section 4, appoint any other member of
the Reconciliation Office to act as the Chairperson.
(b) If a member of the Reconciliation Office becomes
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, by
reason of illness or other infirmity or due to absence from
Sri Lanka or any other reason, the President may, subject to
the provisions of section 4, appoint any other qualified
person to temporarily act in place of such member during
such period.
(6) No act or proceeding of the Reconciliation Office
shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of any vacancy among its members, or defect in the
appointment of any member thereof.
8. (1) The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the
Reconciliation Office. In the absence of the Chairperson of
any meeting of the Reconciliation Office, the members
present at such meeting shall elect one of the members of the
Reconciliation Office  to preside at such meeting.
(2) The Chairperson or the member presiding at any such
meeting of the Reconciliation Office shall, in addition to
his own vote, have a casting vote.
(3)  The quorum for meetings of the Reconciliation Office
shall be five members.
(4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the
Reconciliation Office may make rules, to regulate the
procedure in regard to the conduct of its meetings, and the
transaction of business at such meetings.
Quorum and
the meetings
of the
Reconciliation
Office
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
5
10
15
20
25
PART II
MANDATE, POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE
RECONCILIATION OFFICE
9. The Reconciliation Office shall have the mandate to –
(a) make recommendations to the Government and
relevant authorities towards achieving national
unity, reconciliation and durable peace in Sri
Lanka;
(b) formulate a national policy and national action plan
on reconciliation and coexistence;
(c) facilitate and implement programmes to promote
national unity and reconciliation in Sri Lanka and
to monitor the implementation thereof; and
(d) recommend to the Government, measures to be
taken to resolve matters causing tensions and
conflicts within and among the different
communities, having adverse effects on national
unity.
10. The Reconciliation Office shall have the following
powers, duties and functions: -
(a) to make recommendations to the Government and
relevant authorities, on matters relevant to building
national unity and reconciliation in Sri Lanka and
other matters specified in the mandate of the
Reconciliation Office;
(b) to formulate a national policy on reconciliation
and coexistence and assist the implementation of
the same;
Mandate of
the
Reconciliation
Office
Powers,
duties and
functions of
the
Reconciliation
Office

<!-- page 9 -->

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation8
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to formulate and implement the national action plan
on reconciliation and coexistence comprising of
the programmes specified in the Schedule to this
Act;
(d) to identify the persons or groups of persons
aggrieved within the social layers of the Sri Lankan
society due to ethnic, religious, linguistic, social,
political and economic factors;
(e) to develop affirmative action  programmes  for the
persons or groups of persons referred to in paragraph
(d) within the national action plan on reconciliation
and coexistence;
(f) to pursue the efforts towards reconciliation and the
strengthening of national unity, and to address post-
conflict concerns such as the return and resettlement
of internally displaced people, and the social
rehabilitation and reintegration of former
combatants;
(g) to launch public awareness and education
campaigns on the national policy on reconciliation
and coexistence and the national action plan;
(h) to mainstream the values defined in the national
policy on reconciliation and coexistence within
Government institutions and existing national
initiatives through annual work plans;
(i) to identify the constraints to national integration
and to take suitable action based on discussion and
consensus of the relevant stakeholders;
(j) to collaborate with the Ministries, government
departments and other institutions dealing with
matters relating to reconciliation and peace
building;
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
5
10
15
20
25
(k) to review various strategies that are being
implemented and due to be implemented with
regard to the national integration and reconciliation
and to assist in the  settlement of issues in
implementing such strategies;
(l) to make recommendations to the Government and
other relevant authorities for the consultation with
relevant stakeholders on required policies and
actions for national unity, reconciliation,
coexistence and building a lasting peace;
(m) to assist the relevant authorities -
(i) to prepare and implement programmes on
the promotion of national integration,
reconciliation and coexistence and national
harmony and to integrate such programmes
into development plans at the district level;
(ii) to implement the recommendations made by
any reconciliation endeavour established
under any written law, or any policy of the
Government, for the purpose of achieving
national unity and reconciliation;
(iii) to resolve issues that may emerge in the
process of peace building and reconciliation
by making proposals on appropriate solutions
to such issues; and
(iv) to seek funds for implementation of
programmes and projects on national unity
and reconciliation, conducted under this
Act;

<!-- page 11 -->

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation10
5
10
15
20
25
(n) to liaise and coordinate with other local and foreign
institutions, development partners and civil
society with a view to promoting the objects of the
Act;
(o) to guide and facilitate peace and reconciliation
programmes conducted by local organisations
including community based organisations;
(p) to make rules to ensure the effective functioning of
the Reconciliation Office including its
administration;
(q) to make rules and issue guidelines from time to
time which shall include gender and child
responsive policies, to be followed by the staff of
the Reconciliation Office relating to the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and
functions;
(r) to appoint,  employ and dismiss officers and
employees of the Reconciliation Office and to
exercise disciplinary control over such officers and
employees;
(s) to request secondment of public officers to the
Reconciliation Office; and
(t) to appoint committees and establish in addition to
any unit or division specifically mentioned in this
Act, divisions and units as are required for the
effective administration and functioning of the
Reconciliation Office and to delegate such powers
and functions as are necessary to such committees,
divisions and units.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
5
10
15
20
25
PART III
SECRETARIAT
11. (1) The Reconciliation Office shall have a Secretariat
which shall be charged with the responsibility of
administering the affairs of the Reconciliation Office.
(2) The Reconciliation Office shall appoint a Director-
General, who shall be a person having qualifications and
experience in the field of national unity and reconciliation
and the Director-General shall be the Chief Executive Officer
of the Reconciliation Office.
(3) There may be appointed, by the Reconciliation Office,
such other officers and servants as may be necessary to assist
the Reconciliation Office in the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions.
12.  (1) At the request of the Reconciliation Office, any
officer in the public service may with the consent of that
officer and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Public Administration, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Reconciliation Office for such
period as may be determined by the Reconciliation Office
or with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Reconciliation Office, the
provisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall,  mutatis
mutandis apply to and in relation to such officer.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Reconciliation Office, the
provisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis
mutandis apply to and in relation to such officer.
Secretariat
Appointment
of public
officers to
the staff of
the
Reconciliation
Office
30

<!-- page 13 -->

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation12
5
10
15
20
PART IV
FINANCE AND REPORTING
13. The State shall provide the Reconciliation Office with
adequate funds to enable the Reconciliation Office to
discharge the functions assigned to it by this Act. Such funds
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
14.  The salaries of the members of the Reconciliation
Office shall be determined by Parliament and be charged on
the Consolidated Fund, and shall not be diminished during
their terms of office.
15. The Reconciliation Office may raise funds –
(a) by obtaining grants, gifts or endowments from
within Sri Lanka; and
(b) to achieve its mandate by obtaining grants, gifts or
endowments from outside Sri Lanka:
Provided that, the funds under paragraph ( b) shall be
channeled through the Department of External Resources.
16.  (1) The financial year of the Reconciliation Office
shall be the calendar year.
(2) The Reconciliation Office shall cause proper accounts
to be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities.
(3) The accounts of the Reconciliation Office shall be
audited by the Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.
Finances
Salaries of
members of
the
Reconciliation
Office
Reconciliation
Office to
raise funds
Financial
year

<!-- page 14 -->

13Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
5
10
15
20
25
30
17. The Reconciliation Office shall submit annual reports
including its audited accounts, to Parliament, and shall also
cause such reports to be made public within a period of one
month of such reports being submitted to Parliament.
PART V
G
ENERAL
18.  (1) Any person who –
(a) wrongfully resists or obstructs any person
authorised under this Act in the exercise of the
powers conferred on such person;
(b) wrongfully hinders or obstructs the Reconciliation
Office in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions; or
(c) willfully provides false information to the
Reconciliation Office,
commits the offence of contempt against the authority of
the Reconciliation Office.
(2) Where the Reconciliation Office has reasonable
grounds to believe that a person has committed the offence
of contempt against the authority of the Reconciliation
Office, the Reconciliation Office shall report such matter to
the Court of Appeal. Every offence of contempt committed
against the authority of the Reconciliation Office shall be
punishable by the Court of Appeal as if it was an offence of
contempt committed against the Court of Appeal.
19. (1) ( a) No order, decision, act or omission of the
Reconciliation Office or any member, officer or servant
thereof shall be questioned in any proceedings or any court
of law, save and except in proceedings under Article 126 or
140 of the Constitution.
Reporting
Offences
Protection
from action

<!-- page 15 -->

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation14
5
10
15
20
25
(b) The writ jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appeal
by Article 140 of the Constitution in relation to any order,
decision, act or omission of the Reconciliation Office or any
member, officer or servant thereof, shall be exercised by the
Supreme Court and not by the Court of Appeal.
(2) Other than in the circumstances provided for in
subsection (1) of this section –
(a) no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be instituted
against any member of the Reconciliation Office or
any officer or servant appointed to assist the
Reconciliation Office, other than for contempt
against the authority of the Reconciliation Office,
for any act which in good faith is done or omitted
to be done, by him, as such member or officer or
servant;
(b) no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be instituted
against any member of the Reconciliation Office in
respect of any report made in good faith by the
Reconciliation Office under this Act or against any
other person in respect of the publication by such
person of a true account of such report; and
(c) no proceedings civil, criminal or administrative,
shall be instituted against any person consequent,
to such person in good faith providing evidence or
documentation to the Reconciliation Office.
20. (1) The Reconciliation Office may make rules for
matters for which rules are required to be made under this
Act.
(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be placed before
Parliament and published in the Gazette within a reasonable
period not exceeding three months.
Rules
30

<!-- page 16 -->

15Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
5
10
15
20
25
21. The members of the Reconciliation Office (for the
limited purpose of their functions under this Act) and the
officers and servants shall be deemed to be public servants
for the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19), the Anti-
Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023 and the Evidence Ordinance
(Chapter 14).
22. The Reconciliation Office shall be deemed to be a
scheduled institution within the meaning of the Anti-
Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Act
shall be construed accordingly.
23. (1) The Reconciliation Office may delegate to the
Director-General, or any other member or officer thereof,
any of its powers and functions.
(2) The Director-General, the member or officer to whom
any of the powers or functions of the Reconciliation Office
has been delegated shall exercise and perform such powers
and functions subject to the general or specific directions of
the Reconciliation Office.
24. Unless the context otherwise requires, in this Act -
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the
Reconciliation Office under Article 44 or 45 of the
Constitution; and
“community based organisations” means a non-profit
or non governmental organizations that operates at
the grassroot level within a specific community or
locality.
25. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Members
& c. deemed
to be public
servants
Reconciliation
Office to be a
scheduled
institution
Delegation of
Powers
Interpretation
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency

<!-- page 17 -->

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation16
SCHEDULE [section 10( c)]
Programmes to be comprised in the national action plan on
reconciliation and coexistence
1. Programmes to ensure reconciliation and coexistence that builds
up awareness, peace and unity among all communities and
follow up.
2. Programmes to promote and catalyze a multi-stakeholder effort
to create a society that respects rule of law, fundamental rights,
freedom, social obligations, mutual respect, non-discrimination,
equity and diversity.
3. Programmes to establish a coherent network mechanism
designed and established from regional level to the national
level to promote dialogue, build consensus towards
reconciliation and provide early warning and response to
emerging conflicts.
4. Programmes to strengthen the governance, policies and
curricula to promote reconciliation and social cohesion in the
education system including schools, both public and private
universities, tertiary and vocational education institutions.
5. Programmes to make psychosocial care and support system,
including coordination, assessment, monitoring and evaluation
strengthened to foster reconciliation among deprived
communities.
6. Programmes to formulate a national action plan for preventing
violent extremism, in consultation with the relevant Ministries
and government departments and institutions.
7. Programmes to make recommendations to the Government on
measures to be taken to resolve issues causing to stress and
conflicts existed among different communities and implement
such measures and follow up.
8. Programmes to formulate projects and programmes focused
on social integration, education, conflict transformation,
psychosocial supportive projects, arts and culture, awareness
creation and socialization, economic engagement programmes
under overall district development and local economic
development plans, livelihood development plans with a special
focus to women and youth integration.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING