

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
287
287
wxl 1"541 _ 2008 ud¾;= 14 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'03'14
No. 1,541 – FRIDAY , MARCH 14, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 290
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 291
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th March 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 7th March, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in July-Sept. 2003, has been published in Part V of this Gazette.
Note.-Environment Conservation Levy Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka  January 25th 2008.
Butchers Ordinance (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lank a January 25th 2008.
Inlan Revenue (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka of January 25th, 2008.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
288
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either  in Sinhala la nguage or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
289
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
290
Posts - Vacant
REGISTRAR    GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of  Births and deaths in the Tamil Medium
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium in the  divisions set out in the
Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births and Deaths Registration Divisions  and should  be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influences in the area.
03. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational  and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretaries, Land and District Registries, Divisional  Secretaries offices, Grama Niladhari offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretariat (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries.  Applications should  be sent  by Registered post to the address given in the Schedule  on or before 11th April 200 8.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
Colombo 11.
26th February, 2008.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary’ s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Galle Kadawathsathara Post of Registrar of Births and District Secretary/
Deaths in Galle Mahamodera Addi. Registrar General
General Hospital Division District Secretariat
(Tamil Medium) Galle
do do Post of Registrar of Births and do
Deaths in Galle Karapitiya
Hospital Division
(Tamil Medium)
03 - 403

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
291
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY    OF    LIVESTOCK    DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF  RESEARCH
ASSISTANT IN CLASS II B OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE – 2008
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Director General of  the  Animal
Production and Health for the competitive examination  to recruit
for the  posts of Research Assistant class II B in the Department of
Animal Production and Health.
02. Examination :
The examination will be held on May 2008 in Kandy by the
Director  General of Animal  Production and Health. The right to
postpone or cancel the examination shall be with the Director
General.
03. Conditions of the Service :
Recruitment will be made for class II B of the Research Assistant
service subject to the general  conditions  of the Public  Service and
the following  conditions governing the appointments
(i) The selected officer is subject to the conditions of serving in
any part of the Island.
(ii) The officers who are recruited under open competitive
examination will be on probation for a period of 3 years. If a
public officer already confirmed in a permanent post in the
Public Service is appointed, he will be subjected to supervision
for a period  of one year. The officers who are appointed by
the open competitive examination are required to pass the
relevant first Efficiency Bar examination before confirmed in
the post.
(iii) The officers who have entered the service in the English
medium under open recuitment should obtain the proficiency
in an official language i. e. Sinhala or Tamil. A certified copy of
the result sheet or the original of the certificates issued  by the
Department of Examinations should  be produced to prove
that Sinhala/Tamil subject has been passed at the G. C. E.
(Ord. Level) examination in order to exempt from the official
languages proficiency examination
(iv) The selected officer is subject to the orders of the Public
service Commission provisions of the Establishment Code,
Financial Regulations  Provisions and Regulations issued by
the Government from time to time and orders of the Ministry
and Department.
4. Salary Scale :
MI -2-2006 A – Research Assistants Service class II B
Rs. 14,570-10x170-11x180-6x240-14x320-Rs. 24,170
(Monthly as per Public  Administration Circular 06/2006 IV)
The officers in this segment should pass the 1st Efficiency bar
examination before receiving the 3rd increment.
5. Age Limit :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years
on the closing date of the application. This maximum age limit
does not apply for the officers who are already in the Public
Service.
(b) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(c) Should be physically fit.
6. Educational Qualifications:
Should have obtained the Diploma in Animal Husbandry from a
Sri Lanka  College of Animal Husbandry ;
and
Should have  passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination in
not more than two sittings in 06 subjects with credit passes in
Languages or literature/Arithmetic/ Mathematics ;
or
Pass in any other examination similar to it.
Note: If the person who have obtained a Diploma from the Open
university of Sri Lanka have passed the foundation course relevant
to that course they can be released from the requirement of
completing the G .C. E. (Ordinary Level).
7. Method of Recruitment :
The candidates who have fulfilled the basic qualifications should
sit for the Competitive examination which will be conducted by the
Department of Animal production and Health.
The candidates who have obtained 40% or more marks for each
paper prescribed for the general competitive examination will be
called for a viva voce on merit basis. No marks will be given for the
interview and recruitments will be made on the basis of the order of

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
292
the aggregate obtained at the examination by the candidates who
have fulfilled the necessary qualifications.
8. Examination:
(i) Medium of examination will be in Sinhala/ Tamil/ English.
(ii) Candidate can select the medium of the examination.
(iii) Permission  will not be given to change the medium applied
for at the Examination.
(iv) The examination fee is Rs. 300/- the money order drawn in
favour of the Director General, Department of Animal
Production and Health encahable at Post Office. Peradeniya
should be affixed to the relevant cage in the application.
(v) Subjects – The examination will be consisted of two question
papers.
 (i) Intelligence Test
(ii) Question paper in Technology.
Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence Test – time 01 hour – 100 Marks
This question paper is designed to examine the logical  reasoning
analytical  Thinking  and the ability to take decision.
(b) Question paper in Technology – time 01 hour – 100 Marks.
This includes the subjects given below.
 (i) Identification and maintenance of laboratory equipment.
(ii) The tests used for diagnosis
Pathology
Parasitology
Microbiology
Serology
Nutrition
(iii) The tests used for Animal Husbandry
Physical tests
Chemical tests
Sensitive tests.
(iv) Cleanliness of the Laboratory, sterilization
(v) Obtaining samples storing and transport.
09. Method of Application :
The application should be prepared in accordance to the
specimen application form attached to this notification. Application
prepared on paper 8 ½ x 12 (A4) using both sides of it.
The Application should be sent under registered cover to reach
the Director General, Department of Animal  Production and Health,
P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya on or before 10th April 2008.
The words "Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the
Posts of Research Assistant" should be written clearly on the top
left hand  corner of the envelope. The application received after the
closing date will be rejected.
Note : The candidates who are in the Public Service should
forward their application through the Head of the Department/
Institute.
Incomplete applications will be rejected. No allegation that an
application has been delayed or lost in the post will be considered.
Applications will not be acknowledged. If admissions are not
received within four days prior to the date of the examination. The
candidates are requested to  inform the Direcor General, Department
of Animal  Production & Health with the following particulars.
(i) Full name of the applicant
(ii) Address
(iii) Date of Posting, registered No. and Post Office.
10. The Photostat copies of the following  should be attached to the
application-
(i) Certificate of Birth,
(ii) Educational Certificates.
Identity of the Candidate:
Every candidate is required to prove his identity at the
Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor. The
following documents are accepted for that purpose.
(i) National identity Card  issued by the Commissioner General
of Registration  of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport (Issued 3 years prior to the date of the
Examination.)
Submission of  False Information :
If it reveals that a candidate has not  gained the required
qualification to sit for the examination his/her candidature can be
cancelled before or during the period or after the examination or at
any stage.  If it appears that a candidate has submitted false
information knowingly he/she will be liable to disqualification.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general  conditions pertaining to the appointment to the Public
Service stipulated at the commencement of Part (IIA) of this Gazette
notification and rules and regulations for the candidates.
11. The Direcor General, Department of Animal Production and
Health reserves herself the right to take a decision with regard to a
problem arisen about a fact which is not mentioned in the Gazette
notification or about the number to the recruited and that will be
the final decision.
Dr. (Mrs.) H. M. S. P. H
ERATH,
Director – General
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya.
05th  February, 2008.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
293
Specimen Application Form
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT
DEP ARTMENT OF  ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
Application for the Posts of  Research Assistant
in Class II of  the  Sri Lanka Technological Services – 2008
  Medium selected
(Write the relevant number in the cage)   (For office use only)
Sinhala – 2
Tamil   – 3
English – 4
01. Name  :
1.1 Name with initials (in block letters)
(Example. SILV A B. A. )  :—————.
1.2 N. I. C. No.
02. Address:
2.1 Private Address :—————.
2.2 Official  Address :—————.
2.3The address to which the admission card to be sent :——.
03. 3.1Sex (Mark the relevant cage)
Female
Male
3.2 Date of Birth :—————.
Year:                       Month :                  Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing  date of the application :
Y ear              Month              Date:
3.4 Civil Status: (Mark the relevant cage) :
Married
Unmarried
04. Educational  Qualifications:
4.1 G . C. E. (A/L) :   Year :————.  Month :—————.
Subject Grade Index. No.
4.2 (a) The Institute from where the Diploma was obtained  :—
————.
(b) The year on which the Diploma was obtained  :————
—.
05. The present occupation and the previous  appointments held:
Post Institute From to
06. The name of the Post Office to  which the examination fees
had been paid:
No. of the Money Order  :—————.
(The examination fee is Rs. 300. It can be paid to any
Post office in the Island  in favour of the Director
General, Department of Animal  Production and
Health. Affix the Receipt here.
7. I hereby certify that  the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any of
the information furnished by me is found  to be false or
incorrect, I am liable  to be disqualified before selection or to
be dismissed whithout  any compensation if such detection
is made after appointment.
—————.
Signature of the Applicant
Date  :—————.
Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent posts
in the Public  Service at present :
Certificate of the Head of the Department
The above particulars furnished by the  officers were checked and
found to be correct and if he/ she is selected for the above  post
he/she can be/cannot be released.
—————.
Head of the Department.
Designation  :—————.
Address  :—————.
Date  :—————.
03-297

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
294
MINISTRY   OF   LIVESTOCK   DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE II B OF THE CLASS II OF
THE SRI LANKA LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS
SERVICE - 2008
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Director General of the Animal
Production and health for the competitive  examination to recruit to
the post on the Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Livestock
Development Officers of Animal Production and Health Service.
02 Examination :
The Examination will be held on May, 2008 in Kandy by Director
General of Animal Production and Health.
The right to postpone  or cancel the examination shall be with
the Director General.
03. Conditions of the service :
(i) The recruitment to Class II B of the Sri Lanka Livestock
Development Officers Service will be made subject to the
general conditions governing the appointments in the Public
Service and the following conditions :
(i) The selected officer is subject to serve in any part of
the island.
(ii) The officers appointed under open competitive
Examination will be on probation for a period of 3
years. If an officer who is confirmed in a post  in the
Public Service is appointed he will be on probation
for a period of 01 year. The officers who are appointed
by the open competitive examination are required to
pass the Efficiency Bar Examination I before they are
confirmed in their posts.
(iii) An officer who entered the Public Service in English
medium under the open recruitments should gain
proficiency in official languages either on Sinhala or
Tamil during the period of probation. A certified copy
of the results sheet or the Original issued by the
Department of Sri Lanka Education has to be submitted
to prove that Sinhala/ Tamil subject had been passed
in order to exempt from the official language
proficiency test.
(iv) The selected officer will be subject to the orders of the
Public Services Commission rules and regulations of
the Establishments Code, Financial Regulations terms
and conditions issued by the Government from time
to time  and the orders of the Ministry and the
Department.
04. Salary Scale :
MT-2-2006A
Rs. 14,570 - 10x170 - 11x180 - 6x240 – 14x320 –  Rs. 24,170
(As per P. A. Circular No. 06/2006 (iv) Monthly).
The officers in Class II B should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination
I before reaching the Salary step IV of the salary scale.
05. Age Limit :
(i) Should be not less than  21 years and not more than 35
years on the closing date of the application. The upper
age limit will not apply for the officers who are already in
the Government Service.
(ii) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should be physically fit.
06. Educational Qualifications  :
Should complete the following qualifications as at 10th April,
2008.
Applicants should have passed G.C.E. (Ad. Level) Examination
in three subjects and two subjects from Maths, Applied Maths,
Physics, Chemistry, Combined Maths, Biology and Agriculture.
and,
Two year Diploma obtained from the School of Animal
Husbandry in Welisara, Anuradhapura or Kundasale.
07. Method of Recruitment :
The candidates who have fulfilled the basic qualifications
should sit for a common competition examination which will
be conducted by the Department of Animal Production and
Health Service.
(i) Candidates who have obtained 50% or more marks for
each paper at the competitive Examination will be called
for a viva voce. On the basis of merit, no marks will be
given at the interview. Recruitments will be made on the
basis of the total marks obtained at the Examination by
the candidates who have provide their eligibility.
08. Examination :
(i) The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil  and
English Medium.
(ii) Candidates may answer  in any language of their
preference.
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the Language
Medium at the Examination.
(iv) The Examinat ion fee will be Rs. 300. A money order
drawn  in favour of the Director General Animals
Production and Health indicating paying-in-office as
Peradeniya Post Office should be affixed on the relevant
cage in the application.
(v) The Examination will be consisted of the following two
subjects :
 (i) Intelligence ;
(ii) Question paper in Technology ;

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
295
(vi) The Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence – Time 01 Hour (100 Marks).
This question paper is designed to examine the
applicants’ logical reasoning analytical thinking and
the ability to take decisions.
(b) Question paper in Technology – Time 01 hour (100
Marks)
It is consisted with the following subjects :
(i) The resources available for agricultural and animal
husbandry activities of Sri Lanka. Potentials, personal
situation and contribution towards the economy.
(ii) Animal husbandry patterns of Sri Lanka  quantity of
production and marketing system, Livestock farming
patterns available in Sri Lanka, their location and the
dissemination.
(iii) Popular methods used for breeding purposes with regard
to firm hard.
(iv) Epidemics, disease  control activities, collection of samples
from sick animals and transporting of them.
(v) Animal gammated farming systems and recycling
methods.
(vi) Industries associated with Animal Husbandry processing
of Milk and meat and processing of animal feed.
(vii) Income and the expenditure accounting systems pertaining
to animal production in process. Reporting  and auditing
of farms planning of farms.
(viii) Using of Scientific information dissemination system and
their productivity.
09 Method of application :
(i) Application forms  should be prepared according to the
specimen attached herewith. Applications prepared on a paper
of size 81/2 ’’ x 12 ’’ (A4) using both sides of it should be
forwarded under registered cover to reach  the address of
Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health, P. O. Box 13, Gatabe, Peradeniya on or before 10th
April, 2008.
The words “competitive  Examination for recruitment  to the
post of Livestock Development Officer” should be clearly
indicated on the top  left hand corner of the envelope.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Note :
The applicants who are in the Public Service should forward
their applications through their Heads of the Departments/
Institution.
(ii) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No Allegations
with regard to the applications lost or delayed in the post
will be accepted.
(iii) No acknowledgement will be sent if the candidates have
not received their admission cards four days prior to the
date of the Examination it should be informed to the
Director General of Animal Production and Health
immediately with the following particulars :
(i) Full Name ;
(ii) Address ;
(iii) Date on which the application was posted, Registered
No. Post Office.
Photostat copies of the following should be attached  to the
application form of the candidate.
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii)Certificate with regard to the educational qualifications.
10. Identity of the Candidate :
Every candidate should prove his identity at the examination
hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. The following documents
are accepted for that purpose :
1. An identity card issued by the Commissioner General of
Registration of Persons ;
2. Valid Passport (should have been issued 3 years prior to
the date of the Examination.)
Submission of false information
If it reveals that a candidate has not possessed the required
qualifications to sit for the examination his or her candidature can
be cancelled before or during the examination after it or at any stage.
If it appears that a candidate has submitted false information
knowingly he/she will be subject for dismissed.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general conditions of the service relevant for the appointment to
the Public Service stated on paragraph 2:1 of Part 1 of this gazette
notification together with the rules and instructions for the
candidates.
The Director General, Animal Production and Health reserve
himself the right to take a decision with regard to a problem arise or
about the situation of candidates and it will be the final decision.
The particulars of the service are published in the service minute of
the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers Service in the Extra-
ordinary gazette of the Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka
No. 1410/ 23 dated 14.09.2005.
H. M. S. P. H
ERATH,
Director General of Animal
Production and  Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Getambe, Peradeniya.
05th February, 2008.
B4 - B 079658

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
296
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
Application for the Post of Livestock Development Officers of
Class II B of the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers
Service 2008
                  For Office Use only :
The Medium applied for:
Mark the relevant no in  the cage
Sinhala – 2
Tamil   – 3
English -4
01.  Name :
1.1 Name with initials on block letters in English (Surname
first) :.............................................................................
         ............................................................................
1.2 Name in full – in sinhala : ............................................
.....................................................................................
1.3 N.I.C. No. :
02.  Address :-
2.1 Private :————.
2.2 Official Address :————.
2.3 Address to which the admissions card should be sent
:————.
03. Sex : Mark the relevant Cage :————.
Female
Male
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3  Age as at the closing date of the applications  :
             Years : Months : Days :
3.4  Civil Status  (Mark the relevant cage)
Married
Unmarried
04. Educational Qualifications :————.
4.1 G.C.E. (Advance Level) Examination :   years :—Month :—
Subject The Pass  Obtained Index No.
4.2 (a) The Institution from where the Diploma in Animal
Husbandry was obtained :————.
(b) The year on which the Diploma in Animal Husbandry
was obtained :————.
05. The present occupation and the previous appointments held
(if available only)
Post Institution From To
06. The name of the post office to which the examination fee had
been paid  :————.
Money order No.  :————.
The examination fee Rs. 300. It should be written in favor of
Director General, Animal production and Health.
The receipt should be affixed  here.
I certify that the particulars given in this application  are true
and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein
are found to be false or incorrect I am liable to disqualification
before selection and to dismissed without any compensation if
defected after the selection.
 :————.
Signature of the Applicant
Date :————.
Relevant to the Officers in the Public Service at present
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I do hereby certify that the forgiving particulars were checked by
me and found to be correct. He/ She could/ Could not be released
from the present post held by him/ her if selected for the above
post.
 :————.
Head of the Department.
(Official seal should be placed)
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
03-298

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
297
Notaries Final Exmination Held in September 2007
It is hereby notified that the following candidates have been passed
the Notaries Final Examination in order to Act as Notaries Public in
the language shown alongside their names.
1. Mr. S. M. Dawith Singho Sinhala
2. Mr. A. N. Chandradithya Sinhala
3. Mr. H. M. S. D.Herath Sinhala
4. Mr. L. W. S. Dayarathna Sinhala
5. Mr. H. P. Wijayananda Sinhala
6. Mr. W. M. Rupasinghe Sinhala
7. Mrs. P. M. Oluni Cooray Sinhala
8. Mr. I. B. Wimalawanshasoorya Sinhala
9. Mr. C. K. Gamage Sinhala
10. Mrs. G. K. Gamage Sinhala
11. Mr. H. L. M. Jawfer T amil
12. Miss A. S. lyer T amil
13. Mr. J. D. C. J. S. Nanayakkara Sinhala
14. Mrs. D. M. P. Sujatha Sinhala
15. Mr. Y . G . Seneviratne Sinhala
16. Mrs. E. M. A. K. Kumarathunga Sinhala
17. Mr. A. M. Gunasena Sinhala
18. Mr. D. A. L. W. Ranasinghe Sinhala
19. Mrs. L. A. Wanshawathi Sinhala
20. Mrs. S. P. D. H. K. Pathirana Sinhala
21. Mr. A. M. T. Abeykoon Sinhala
22. Mr. A. C. M. Faleel T amil
23. Mr. K. R. Jayathilaka Sinhala
24. Mr. M. Udayakumaran T amil
25. Mr. K. Thyagarajah T amil
26. Mr. V . Sivasubramaniam T amil
27. Mr. D. Nissanka Sinhala
28. Mr. D. S. Sriyasinghe  Sinhala
29. Mr. H. J. Dayaratne Sinhala
30. Mrs. H. L. A. D. B. D. Seneviratne Sinhala
31. Mr. H. T. Dayananda Sinhala
32. Mr. K. Thiruchelvam T amil
33. Mrs. H. M. H. H. Wickramasinghe Sinhala
34. Mrs. H. D. H. L. Karunaratne Sinhala
35. Mrs. A. K. D. Alwis Sinhala
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
Colombo 11.
27 February 2008.
03-402
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  AND  AGRARIAN  SERVICE
Department of Agriculture
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts of Agricultural Instructor, Research Assistant, Farm
Machinery Instructor, Engineering Assistant, Engineering Foreman, Technical Officer and Building Overseer/Inspector
of Works Grade III of the Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Department of Agriculture - 2008
APPLICATION are Called from Citizens of Sri Lanka for the purpose of filling above vacancies in Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service in the Department of Agriculture.
02. The age of applicants should not be less than 18 years or more than 45 years. The maximum age limit will not be applicable
to those who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service.
03. The monthly salary scale attached to the post in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv) is  Rs. 14570-
170x10-180x11-240x6-320x14-24170/=
04. The post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions will have to be made to the Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension scheme.
05. The candidates are required to fulfill the following Basic Educational Qualifications and Professional Qualifications as at the
closing date of Application.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
298
Post Educational Qu alification Professional Qualification
G .C.E. (O/L) G .C.E (A/L)
Agricultural A pass in G .C.E. (O/L) A pass in G .C.E. (A/L) (old Syllabus) Two year Agriculture Diploma
Instructor and Examination in 06 (six) Examination in 03 (three) Science subjects Certificate obtained from the Schools
  Re search subjects with credit pass with two Science subjects out of Zoology, of Agriculture at Kundasale,
  Assistant in Language or Literature, Chemistry, Botony and Agriculture at Angunakolapelessa, Pelwehera, Bibila,
Arithmetic/Mathematics, one sitting. Labuduwa, Wariyapola, Vavuniya,
Science and any other subject or Anuradhapura and Karapincha
at not more than two sittings. A pass in G .C.E. (A/L) (new syllabus) or
Examination in 03 (three) Science subjects Agriculture Diploma Certificate
with Biology and Chemistry at one sitting. obtained from the Technical Colleges at
Dambulla and Kuliyapitiya.
or
Agriculture Diploma Certificate
obtained from the Hardi Technical
Institution.
       or
Agriculture Diploma Certificate
obtained from the Acquinas College.
or
A two year Agriculture Diploma
Certificate offered by the Government
approved Institution.
or
Other qualifications accepted by the Sri
Lanka Technological Services Board as
equivalent to the above qualifications.
Farm A pass in G .C.E. (O/L) A pass in G .C.E. (A/L) (old Syllabus) (i) National Diploma in Engineering
Machinery Examination in 06 (six) Examination in 03 (three) Science subjects offered by the Moratuwa,
Instructor subjects with credit pass with two science subjects out of Applied University or Hardi Technical
in Language or Literature, Math's, Physics, Chemistry, at one sitting. Institutions
Engineering Arithmetic/Mathematics, or
Assistant Science and any other subject (ii) National Diploma in Engineering
at not more than two sittings. or offered by the National Apprentice
and the Technical Training Authority.
Engineering A pass in G .C.E. (A/L) (new syllabus) or
Foreman Examination in 03 (three) science subjects
out of Combined Math's, Physics and
Technical Chemistry at one sitting (iii) Higher National Diploma in
Officer Engineering offered by Ministry of
Education and Higher Education.
or
(iv) Diploma in Technology offered by
the Open University of Sri Lanka.
or
(v) Successful completion of Part I of
Engineering Examination conducted
by the Sri Lanka Engineering
Institute.
or

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
299
(vi) Any other technological qualifications
accepted by the Board of Sri Lanka
Technological Services as equivalent
in all respect to the above
qualifications subsequent to in
consultation with the ministry of
Higher Eduacation and the
Institutions that offered above
mentioned Certificates in
Technology.
Building A pass in G .C.E. (O/L) A pass in G .C.E.  (A/L) (old Syllabus) National Diploma in Engineering
Overseer Examination in 06 (six) Examination in 03 (three) science subjects offered by the National Apprentice
Inspector subjects with credit pass with two science subjects out of Applied and Technical Training Authority.
of Works in Language or Literature, Math's Physics, Chemistry at one sitting ; or ;
Arithmetic/Mathematics, Higher National Diploma in Engineering
Science and any other subject Or offered by the Ministry of Education
at not more than two sittings. A pass in G .C.E. (A/L) (new syllabus) and Higher Education.
Examination in 03 (three) science subjects or ;
with two science subjects out of Combined A Diploma in Technology offered by
Math's Physics, and Chemistry at one sitting. the Open University of Sri Lanka.
or ;
Diploma in Building Designing offered
by the University of Moratuwa or Harid
Technical Institute, Ampara.
06. Method of Application.-
(a) Applications should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form appended to this notification so as No. 01 to 04 in the
first page of the paper.
(b) Applications should be prepared in the language in which the candidate intends to sit for the examination.
(c) Duly completed applications should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of examinations. Department
of  examinations, P . O. Box 1503, Palawatte, Battaramulla on or before 15. 04. 2008
(d) The top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the application should be clearly indicated the name of post of which the
candidate wish to apply.
(e) The examination fee for a post is Rs. 250/-. The original receipt obtained from any post office in the Island on payment of the
examination fee should be affixed on the space provided in the application. It would be usefully to keep a Photostat copy of the
receipt with you.
(f) Those who have applied for the posts of Farm Machinery Instructor, Engineering Assistant, and Research Assistant published
in the Government Gazette of 15th December, 2006 and the post of Building Overseer/Inspector of Work, published in the
Government Gazette of 9th February, 2007 are required to apply again as per this Gazette Notification. There is no need to pay
examination fee for the post again but, the number of the receipt, date of payment and post office to which the fee was paid
should be stated in the space provided in the application.
(g) Applications which are not complete in every respect or delayed will be rejected without prior notice, and the Department will
not bear responsibility for loss or delay of application in the post.
(h) The signature of the candidated should be attested by a Principal of Government School or Justice of Peace or an Attorney -at-
Law or an Officer of Public Service who holds a staff grade post.
(i) Those who are already in the Public Service should forward their applications through heads of the respective institutions.
Post Educational Qualification Professional Qualification
G .C.E. (O/L) G .C.E (A/L)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
300
07. Scheme of Examination:
(a) Admission Card :
The Commissioner, General of Examination will issue admission cards to candidates whose applications have been received. A
candidate must produce his/her admission card with attested signature to the supervisor of the examination hall assigned to him/
her. A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
(b) The examination is scheduled to be held in May. Any candidate who has not received his/her admission card at least 7 days before
the day of examination should immediately inform the Commissioner, General of Examinations, P . O. Box. 1503, Palawatte,
Battaramulla, furnishing the following information.
(i) Name of the Examination : ————;
(ii) Full Name of the Candidate : ————;
(iii) Address : ————;
(iv) Date of Posting the Application, Registered Number and the Post Office:  ————;
(v) Money order Number, Date and the Post Office : ————;
(c) Traveling expenses or any other allowance will not be paid to candidates in respect of sit for this examination.
(d) Identification of the Candidate :
A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of each su bject he/she
offers. For this purpose flowing documents will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
(e) Syllabus :
I. Intelligence Test — (Time 01 hour. Total marks - 100)
This paper consists of objective questions so as to make an assessment of the candidates power of logical reasoning, and analysis
and ability to draw sound inferences.
II. Technological question paper (Time 02 hours. Total marks – 100)
Part I. Objective question paper. Time 1 hour.
Part II. Structured essay type question paper. Time 1 hour
Post                                                                                                     Syllabus : Technological question paper
Agriculture This paper is designed to examine the candidate's knowledge in the field of contribution of
Instructor Agriculture to the economic development of Sri Lanka, Climatic Zones of Sri Lanka, Soil
And and Plant Nutrition, Rice Production, V egetable Production, Fruits, Crop Protection, Soil
Research Assistant Conservation and various Soil Conservation Methods, Irrigation Methods and Water
Management, Farm Mechanization, Agriculture, Floriculture and Landscaping, Protec-
tive Crop Cultivation, Animal Husbandry, Agricultural Extension.
Farm Machinery Instructor This is designed to examine the candidate's theoretical and practical knowledge in the
fields of Welding Carpentry, Smiting, Workshop Machinery, Plating, Cutting Blades,
Engineering Assistant  Material Properties and Simple Calculations, Motor Mechanics Electrical Engineering.
Engineering Foreman
Technical Officer Different welding systems and Instruments and Equipments used in those systems,
Adjustment of Instrument arrangements, for Welding.
Instruments used in Snithing Identification of metal, Casting different shapes, identification
of various machinery in a work shop, proper operation and maintenance of such machinery.
 
 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
301
Identification of Various components in material, Simple calculations such as characteristics
of material when force is acting on it, V olume, Force, Moment, Work, Efficiency Safty
measures Should be provided in a work shop.
Building Overseer/Inspector of Works This is designed to examine the candidate's knowledge in the fields of Surveying and
Leveling, Building Materials, Building Construction and Preparation of Estimates, Structural
Beading/Shear Force Diagrame.
Service : Water; Electricity, Sanitory.
Note.— Recruitment will be considered on the priority List which will be prepared in order of the aggregate Marks of the
candidates who have secured 40% or more marks in every Question paper.
(f) The examination will be held in the languages of Sinhala, Tamil and English and a candidate must sit all the papers of the
examination in one and the same language.
(g) The competitive examination for recruitment to the post of Research Assistant, Engineering Assistant, Engineering Foreman,
Technical Officer, Farm Machinery Inspector, and Building Overseer/Inspector of Works will be held only in Colombo.
(h) The competitive examination for recruitment to the posts of Agriculture Instructor will be held in the following Canters.—
Examination Centers Code Nos.
 Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Trincomalee 04
Kurunegala 05
Anuradhapura 06
Badulla 07
Ratnapura 08
(i) Since any examination Center which will not be preferred by a sufficient number of applicants will have to be cancelled, 03
examination Centers should be indicated in order of the preference.
08. Conditions of Employment:
I. The selected candidates are bound to serve in any part of the island.
II. All vacancies existing in the post of Agriculture Instructor in every part of the island will be filled on the result of this examination
and priority will be given to fill vacancies existing in following Districts and Divisional Secretariat Divisions.
Districts and Divisional Secretariat Divisions Code Nos.
In which vacancies are exited in
Kandy (Divisional Secretariat Division, Minipe) 01
Polonnaruwa 02
Anuaradhapura 03
Hambantota (Weerawila) 04
Monaragala(Muthukandiya Division) 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Vaunia 07
Killinochchi 08
Ampara 09
Matale (Divisional Secretariat Division, Wilgamuwa) 10
Badulla (Ridimaliyadda, Kandakatiya and Mahiyanganaya Divisions) 11
Trincomalee (Kantale Division) 12
Mannar (Murunkan/Nanattan Division) 13
III. Five places of work including the places of work mentioned above, selected at your option should be clearly stated in the P ara :
07 of the application. Attention will be drawn to appoint selected candidates to the places of work preferred by them.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
302
09. Method of Recruitment.—  The candidates who have scored highest marks in the examination prescribed in Para : 07 will be
called for an interview which is confined to scrutinizing the qualifications at the ratio of 1:5 according to the existing vacancies, among them
those who have fulfilled required qualification will be selected in the order of merit.
10. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be decided by the "Appointing Authority." All candidates are bound to
act in conformity with the General Rules of Examination stipulated in the Gazette Notification.
11. The Commissioner General of Examination will allow to sit for this competitive examination to all applicants who have paid
required examination fee and sent applicants on or before the date specified in the notification on predetermination that the applications have
only been sent by those who have fulfilled the requirements of this Gazette Notification.
N.B.— If, the candidates who have applied for the posts of Engineering Assistant Research Assistant, Farm Machinery Instructor
and Building Overseer/Inspector of Work as per the Gazette Notification published in the Gazettes of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka of 15th December 2006 and 9th February 2007, fulfill the requirements of the relevant post as per this Gazette Notification should
follow the instructions given in Section (f) of the above para : 6. The Commissioner General of Section Examination will take action to refund
the examination fees paid by the candidates who are not qualified to apply for the relevant post according to this nofification.
Dr. C. KUDAGAMAGE,
Director General of Agriculture.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For Office use only)
APPLICATION FOR OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT TO  VACANCIES IN THE
SRI  LANKA  TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE IN  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE
Medium of Examination Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3 (Indicate the relevant
number in the cage)
English - 4
The post applied for
Examination centres Code No.
Preferred
01. Name:
1.1 Name with Initials :————.
(in English capital letters) Eg. SILV A A.B.
1.2 Full Name :————.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card Number :————.
02. Permanent Address :————.
(in English capital letters)
2.1 Address to which the admission should be sent :————.
(in English capital letters)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
303
03. Gender : Female 1 Male 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.1 Date of Birth Y ear Month Day
3.2 Age as at the closing date of applications
Years Months Days
04. Marital Status.-
Married – 1 Unmarried – 2
(indicate the relevant Number in the cage)
05. Educational Qualifications                                                     (with the medium)
(a) G .C.E. (O/L) N.G .E.C.
First Sitting Second Sitting
Name of the Examination : ——————. ——————.
Year and Month : ——————. ——————.
Index Number : ——————. ——————.
Medium : ——————. ——————.
                                            First Sitting                                                                Second Sitting
Subjects Grades Subjects Grades
1. ————— ————— ————— —————
2. ————— ————— ————— —————
3. ————— ————— ————— —————
4. ————— ————— ————— —————
5. ————— ————— ————— —————
6. ————— ————— ————— —————
7. ————— ————— ————— —————
8. ————— ————— ————— —————
(b) G .C.E. (A/L)
Year and Month :—————.
Index Number :—————.
Medium :—————.
Subjects Grades
1. —————. —————.
2. —————. —————.
3. —————. —————.
4. —————. —————.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
304
(c) Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Diploma & Year Index No. Subjects passed Pass
Name of the Institution passed
06. The districts and divisions in which you are willing to serve in (only for the post of Agricultural instructor)
Code No.
1. ————— —————
2. ————— —————
3. ————— —————
4. ————— —————
5. ————— —————
07. (a)
Number of the receipt
Date of payment
The post office to which the examination fee was paid
Please affix the receipt of money order so as to be undetectable
(b) Following particulars will have to be provided only by candidates those who have applied as per Gazette Notifications published on
2006.12.15 and 2007.02.09
Number of the receipt Date of payment post office
08. Declaration of the Applicant:
I do hereby certify that the praticulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that, if an y
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed without any
compensation if such detection is made after appointment.
I agree to abide by the conditions of this examination.
—————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—————.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2008
305
09. Attestation of the signature of the applicant.-
I hereby certify that the Mr./Mrs. Miss ........................................... is personally known to me and  he/she placed his/her signature
before me on ................................
—————,
Signature of Attester.
Date :—————,
Full Name of Attester :—————,
Designation :—————,
Address :—————,
(Please prove by the official seal)
10. Director General of Examination,
I hereby certify that the above candidate has qualified/not qualified to sit for this examination.
————,
Signature and Designation of Head of
Department/Institution.
Date :—————.
03-406
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.