

<!-- page 1 -->

227 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022.07'15
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2022
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  09th September, 2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th August, 2022.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
G
ANGANI  LIYANAGE,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2022.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 227 B 82373 - 353 (08/2022)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 228
Note:- (i) Judicature (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 
August 05, 2022
 (ii)  Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka of August 05, 2022
(iii) High Court of the provinces (Special Provisions) (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 05, 2022
wxl 2"294- 2022 wf.daia;= ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2022.08'19
No. 2,294- AUGUST  19, FRIDAY , 2022
N. B. - Part III of the Gazette No. 2288 of 08.07.2022 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

228  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022.08'19
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF THE WESTERN 
PROVINCE IN THE EXERCISE OF ITS CIVIL 
JURISDICTION HOLDEN IN COLOMBO
Notice
In the matter of Lumiere 
Textiles Limited of Lot 
No. 15, BEPZ Walgama, 
Malwana
and
In the matter of an  
application under Section 
270(e) read with Section 
534 of the Companies Act, 
No. 07 of 2007, to wind 
up the affairs of Lumiere 
Textiles Limited by Court.
Xebec International Pte. 
Limited,
180B, Bencoolen Street,
#12-05, The Bencoolen,
Singapore (189648)
Petitioner
NOTICE is hereby given that a Petition for the Winding up 
of the above named Company by the Commercial High Court 
Miscellaneous Notices
Case No. : CHC/32/2022/CO
Nature : Winding up
of the Western Province Holden in Colombo, Sri Lanka (in 
the exercise of its Civil Jurisdiction) was on the 28th day of 
July 2022 presented to the said Court by Rasika Wellappili, 
Attorney-at-Law on behalf of the Petitioner aforesaid and that 
the said Petition is directed to be heard before the Court on the 
10th day of October, 2022 and any creditor or contributory of 
the said Company desirous to support or oppose the making 
of an order on the said Petition may appear at the time of 
hearing in person or by his Attorney-at-Law for the purpose 
and a copy of the Petition will be furnished to any creditor or 
contributory of the said Company requiring the same by the 
under-signed on payment of the precribed charge for the same.
Rasika Wellappili,
Attorney-at-Law for the Petioner,
No. 25/1/B, Belmont Street, Colombo 12.
Note :-Any person who intends to appear at the hearing of 
the said Petition must serve on or send by post to Rasika 
Wellappili Attorney-at-Law, notice in writing of his intention 
to do so. The notice must state the name and address of the 
person or if a ﬁ rm the name and address of the ﬁ rm, and must 
be signed by the person or ﬁ rm, or his or their Attorney-at-
Law (if any) and must be served or if posted, must be sent by 
post in sufﬁ cient time to reach the above named not later than
6.00 o'clock in the afternoon of the 9th day of October, 2022.
08-145
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SUSARANA 
LANKA  FOUNDATION
I, Asanka Navarathna, do hereby give notice under Standing 
Order No. 53(1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose 
to introduce to Parliament a Bill titled ''An Act to incoporate 
the Susarana Lanka Foundation''. The aim of the Bill is 
to incorporate the said Foundation which has the following 
general  objects :-
 01. Providing education scholarships, school equipment 
as well as other aid and support services targeting 
low-income children.
 02. Co-ordinating with foreign educational Institutions to 
provide international level knowledge and experience 
to the children of Sri Lanka in various ﬁ elds and 
implementing knowledge exchange programs with 
those countries.
 03. To improve library facilities in dif ﬁ cults schools and 
to encourage children to read, to provide books and 
other physical facilities to those schools, to organize 
literary competitions and other creative programs.
 04. Providing training programs and experiences to school 
children by experts in respective ﬁ elds related to the 
development of entrepreneurial qualities and skills in 
children to suit the future local and foreign job market 
etc.
 A
SANKA NA V ARATHNE,
 Member of Parliament,
  Kurunegala District.
08-153