

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... —
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 62
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"065 - 2018 ud¾;= ui 29 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'03'29                                                                                         
No. 2,065 - ThURSDAy , MARCh  29,  2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
ATTENTiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  20th  April  2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th  April, 2018.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
61 - B 81267-353 (2018/03)
Note .-    National Audit Bill was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka 
of March 16, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'29
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 29.03.2018
62
miscellaneous Lands notices
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General :- 4/10/40962
Ref. No. of Provincial Land Commissioner :- NP/28/4/2/
SLO/41-Salvation Army
noTIfIcATIon unDeR STATe LAnD 
ReGuLATIon no. 21 (2)
it is hereby noticed that for the construction of buildings for 
a Girls' Remand home and industrial training center for poor 
girls and officer's quarters, the Salvation Army has requested 
on second period of long lease, state land containing in extent 
about  02 acres and 06 perches (A.02 R.00 P.06) marked as 
Lot 01, as depicted in Plan No. PPYA 264 (L.2789) in the 
village of Kaitadi in the Kaitadi Grama Niladhari Division 
in the Tenmaradchi Divisional Secretariat Division in the 
District of Jaffna.
The boundaries of the land requested are given below.
On the North  by : Lot No. 465 – PP 39;
On the East  by : Lot No. 25 PPS 2008;
On the South by : Kandy Road;
On the West by : Lot No. 465 PP 39.
03. The requested land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions and 
the following conditions.
 (a)  Term of Second lease : Thirty (30) years (from   
  2002.06.01 onwards)
 Annual amount of the lease : 0.5% of the currently 
prevailing undeveloped value of the land as per valuation 
of the chief valuer for the year 2002.
 
Premium : -
 (b)  The lessees must, within a period of one year the date of 
commencement of the lease, develop the said land to the 
satisfaction of the Divisional Secretary.
 (c) The lessees must not use the said land for any purpose 
what so ever other than a purpose of constructing a girls 
remand home industrial training center and officer's 
quarters.
 (d) This lease shall also be subject to other special conditions 
imposed by the Divisional Secretary/ Scopin Committee/ 
BOI of Sri Lanka and other institutes.
 (e) The buildings Constructed and Constructed must be 
maintained in a proper state of repair.
 (f) if the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of time, 
steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of lease.
 (g) Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made and 
if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within 06 weeks of herein Gazette publication to the effect 
that this land must not be given on lease, the land shall be 
leased out as requested.
 
S. a. eranthika W. kularathna,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 For Land Commissioner General
At the Land Commissioner General's Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
'Mihikatha Medura', 
Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battarmaulla on 29.03.2018.
03-1321
PRiNTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOvERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANKA.