

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2819 
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2786
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"138 – 2019 wf.daia;= ui 23 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'08'23
No. 2,138 –  fRiday ,  august 23, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th september, 2019 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th august, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer.
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2783 - B 81553- 5,403 (08/2019)
Note.–   (i) Mortgage (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of august 09, 2019.
 (ii) secured transactions Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka of august 16, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2784
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2785
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner general Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner general of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner general of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
general of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner general of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner general of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2786
Posts – vacant
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Department of Cooperative Development
REcRuitMENt foR tHE Post of LEgaL officER 
(EXEcutiVE catEgoRy gRadE iii)
aPPLicatioNs are called from citizens of sri Lanka 
with qualifications specified in this notice to fill one (01) 
vacancy in the Executive Category post of Legal Officer 
of the department of cooperative development which 
comes under the purview of the Ministry of industry & 
commerce, Resettlement of Protracted displaced Persons, 
cooperative development and V ocational training and 
skills development. 
01. Method of Recruitment.– the applicant who obtained 
maximum marks based of the results of an Eligibility 
Evaluation interview conducted by an Eligibility Evaluation 
interview Board appointed by Public service commission 
out of applicants who have completed qualifications specified 
in the notice will be recruited to fill the existing vacancy. The 
Eligibility Evaluation interview will be held in conformity 
with the marking scheme (specified under No. 06) approved 
by Public services commission.
Effective date of the appointment will be decided by the 
Public service commission.
02. Qualifications :
 (i) Educational / Professional Qualifications :
  should have taken oath as an attorney-at-Law of 
the supreme court of sri Lanka.
 (ii) experience :
  should have an active professional service period 
not less than three (03) years after taking oaths 
as an attorney- at-Law of the supreme court of 
Sri Lanka. (Term of experience, date and official 
seal should be clearly placed in the documents 
which are presented to prove active professional 
experience) ;
  or
  should have experience in respect of following 
duties in the legal sector of a public institute not 
less than three (03) years after taking oaths as an 
attorney- at- Law of the supreme court of sri 
Lanka.
 (1) Legal affairs related to court cases and 
coordinating with the department of 
attorney general.
 (2) Legal affairs related to agreements.
 (3) Legal affairs related to relevant statutes.
 (4) formulation of legal documents such as 
Bills, circulars and Regulations.
 (5) affairs related to legal inquiries conducted 
by various institutes.
  (These particulars shall be confirmed by a 
certificate issued by the secretary /Head of the 
department)
 (iii) Physical Qualifications :
  Every applicant should be physically and 
mentally fit to serve in any part of the island and 
to perform duties of the post.
 (iv) Other Qualifications :
 • Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 • Should be of an excellent character
 • Requisite qualifications for this post should have 
been completed in every aspect as at the closing 
date.
03. Service Occupying Conditions and Service Conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
will be subject to any policy decision that will 
be taken by the government on your pension 
scheme. you shall contribute for the Widows’/ 
Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension scheme. 
you should make contribution time to time as 
ordered by the government.
 (ii) this appointment will be subject to a probation 
period of three (3) years .Officers should pass 
the first efficiency bar examination within three 
years of the appointment.
 (iii) Every Officer should obtain the proficiency 
in the other official language apart from the 
language he / she has been recruited to the 
post before exceeding five years from the 
appointment and the officers who have been 
recruited in a medium other than an official 
language should obtain required proficiency 
amendment 
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Recruitment of Graduates for the Orientation and Co-ordination Course of the 
Service of Professions Supplementary to medicine
aMENdMENt made to the Notice No. 05-501 the Gazette notification published in the Gazette 
No. 2124 dated 17.05.2019 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka by the secretary to the 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
the closing date of applications for the below mentioned orientation and co- ordination 
courses of the service of Professions supplementary to Medicine of Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine, is entended up to                  31.08.2019.
Code
No.
Oriantation and Co-ordination Corse Degree Required
1 Medical Laboratory technologist B.sc (MLs)
2 Pharmacist B.sc.( Pharmacy)
3 Physiotherapist B.sc. (Physiotherapy )
4 Radiographer B.sc.(Radiotheraphy)
B.sc (Radiography)
the decision of the secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
will be final in case of a problem arisen regarding a matter not covered by this Gazette notification.
 
W
asantha Perera,
  secretary, 
,
 Ministry 
of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
“suwasiripaya”
No. 385, Rev Baddegama Wimalawanse thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
05th august, 2019.
08-845

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2787
in official languages within their probationary period as per the provisions of Public Administrative Circular 
01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and circulars incidental thereto.
 (iv) this appointment is also subject to the procedural rules of Public services commission, Establishments code 
of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka and other orders of the department.
04. Age Limit.– the applicant should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age.
05. Salary Scale .– this post is entitled to a (monthly) salary scale of Rs. 47,615-10x 1335-8 x1630 - 17 x 2170 -             
Rs. l10,895/-. (salary segment sL-1-2016 of P.a.c No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. your salaries will be paid in terms of 
provisions in the schedule ii of the said circular).
06. Marking Scheme for the Structured Interview :
Serial 
No. Subject Marks
Maximum 
Marks
01. Additional Educational qualifications :
Post Graduate Degree in relevant field obtained from a university recognized by the 
university grants commission.
Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field or Post Graduate Diploma in law offered by a 
government recognized institute (a diploma not less than one year)
degree in Law obtained from a university recognized by the university grants 
commission.
• First Class
• Second Class ( upper)
• Second Class (Lower )
First Class in the final year of Law college
Second Class in the final year of Law College
Note: 05 marks should be given only First Class is obtained in the final exam) (marks 
only for maximum qualification)
25
20
15
10
05
10
05
25
02 Additional Professional Qualifications :
 i. a  diploma of more than one year in the relevant field offered by a government 
recognized institute (10 marks for each diploma)
Diploma of more than 06 months and less than one year in the relevant field 
offered by a government recognized institute (05 marks for each diploma)
Certificate course of more than 03 months and less than 06 months in the 
relevant field offered by a government recognized institute ( 03 marks for each 
certificate course)
(For the certificates obtained marks other than under No. 01)
ii. Additional Experience :
Experience as attorney at Law in public or private sector:
- Maximum 25 marks - five marks per each year
- More than 06 years and less than one year: 02 marks
(Excluding the three years of service period engaged in service as an attorney at 
Law, to acquire basic qualifications.)
10
25
35
amendment 
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Recruitment of Graduates for the Orientation and Co-ordination Course of the 
Service of Professions Supplementary to medicine
aMENdMENt made to the Notice No. 05-501 the Gazette notification published in the Gazette 
No. 2124 dated 17.05.2019 of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka by the secretary to the 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
the closing date of applications for the below mentioned orientation and co- ordination 
courses of the service of Professions supplementary to Medicine of Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine, is entended up to                  31.08.2019.
Code
No.
Oriantation and Co-ordination Corse Degree Required
1 Medical Laboratory technologist B.sc (MLs)
2 Pharmacist B.sc.( Pharmacy)
3 Physiotherapist B.sc. (Physiotherapy )
4 Radiographer B.sc.(Radiotheraphy)
B.sc (Radiography)
the decision of the secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
will be final in case of a problem arisen regarding a matter not covered by this Gazette notification.
 
W
asantha Perera,
  secretary, 
,
 Ministry 
of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
“suwasiripaya”
No. 385, Rev Baddegama Wimalawanse thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
05th august, 2019.
08-845

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2788
Serial 
No. Subject Marks
Maximum 
Marks
(Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate issued by an Attorney at 
Law or President’s counsel or a Judge with a service period not less than 20 years)
04 Proficiency in Information Technology :
for Possessing a degree including information technology as a core subject from a 
university recognized by the university grants commission
a diploma in information technology not less than one (01) year or 1500 hours from 
a government recognized institute
A certificate course in Information Technology of
06 months/ 720 hours
03 months / 360 hours
from a government recognized institute. (Marks will be given only for the maximum 
qualification).
10
07
05
03
10
05 Proficiency in English Language
Post graduate degree/degree/Post LLB degree /LLB degree studied in English 
medium.
(all relevant examination papers should be answered in English medium)
English Language diploma from a university recognized by the university grants 
commission or a government recognized institution. ( 01 year or 1500hrs)
English Language Certificate course from a university recognized by the University 
grants commission or a government recognized institute.
- 06 months / 720 hours
- 03 months / 360 hours
15
10
07
05
15
Marks to be given by Interview Board for skills
i. general Knowledge & intelligence
ii. Knowledge in the modern trends in legal sector
iii. fluency in speaking and good personality
05
05
05
15
Total marks 100
07.  Identity of Candidate.– only applicants who have submitted applications complete in every aspect will be called for 
the structured interview. Originals and duly certified copies of all the certificates should be submitted at the interview. 
Any of the following documents will be accepted to confirm the identity at the structured interview.
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons;
 (ii) Valid passport.
08. Method of Application :
 (i) applications should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 06.09.2019. 
applications received after the due date will be rejected. 
  commissioner of cooperative development and Registrar of cooperative societies 
   department of cooperative development, 
  No. 330,  
  union Place, 
  colombo 02.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2789
 (ii) A specimen application is given at the end of the of this notification. Applicants should prepare their 
applications using A4 size papers as No. 1.1 to No. 5.1 in the first page, No.5.2 to No.7 in the second page 
and No. 8 to 9 in the third page in applicant’s own hand writing.
 (iii)  “Application for the post of Legal Officer in the Department of Cooperative Development ” should be 
mentioned at the top left corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
 (iv) the signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a government school/Justice of the Peace/ 
a Commissioner of Oaths / an Attomey-at-Law/a Public Notary / Commissioned Officer of three armed 
forces, a Gazetted Police or an officer holding a permanent post in public service drawing consolidated 
monthly salary of Rs. 47,615/- or above.
 (v) candidates who are already in the Public or Provincial Public services, should forward their applications 
through the respective Heads of their departments in which they are serving at present.
 (vi) the applications which are not conformed to the prescribed specimen application will be rejected. No 
complaints will be admitted on loss or delay of applications.
09.  Furnishing false particulars.– if any of the particulars furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous 
before the Recruitment. your candidature will be cancelled. in case such falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment, 
action will be taken to discontinue the service, subject to relevant disciplinary actions being taken.
10.  The power of filling or not filling the vacancies is vested with the Public Service Commission.
11.  in a case of any inconsistency among the sinhala, tamil and English texts of this gazette  notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
12.  Applicants who have applied for this post as per the news paper advertisement dated 20.09.2018 should 
apply again.
13.  The decision of the Public Service Commission will be the final, in case of any matter not specified in this 
notification or any issue that may arise within this recruitment procedure.  
By order of the director general of combined services, 
 secretary, 
 Ministry of industry and commerce, Resettlement of Protracted displaced 
 Persons,  cooperative development and V ocational training and skills development.
on 02nd august, 2019.
sPecimen Form oF aPPlication
dePartment oF cooPerative develoPment Which comes under the PurvieW oF the ministry oF industry & commerce, 
resettlement oF Protracted disPlaced Persons, cooPerative develoPment and vocational training and skills 
develoPment
ReCRuITMeNT FOR GRADe III OF The POST OF LeGAL OFFICeR SeRvICe
 For Office Use Only
Medium :
  sinhala - 2 /t amil - 3 /English - 4
  Medium cannot be change
 [

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2790
1.0.   1.1 Name with initials (Mr./Mrs/Ms) :–––––––––––.
    (sinhala / tamil)
    Ex.guNaWaRdHaNa.M.g.B.s.K.
   1.2. Name with initials :––––––––––––––. 
    (English capital letters)
   1.3 full Name  :––––––––––––––.
    (sinhala / tamil)
   1.4 full Name  :––––––––––––––. 
    (in English block capitals )
2.0    2.1 Permanent address  :––––––––––––––.
    (sinhala / tamil)
   2.2 Permanent address  :––––––––––––––.
    (in English block capitals)
   2.3 telephone Number  :––––––––––––––.
3.0.   3.1  sex :   Male  -0  
      female -1
  3.2. civil statues:  Married  -1
    unmarried  -2
   3.3. date of Birth  :–
    
    y ear :                      Month :             date :
   3.4 age as at 06.09.2019  :–
    y ears :               Months :                 days :
   3.5 Nic No.  : 
 
4.0 4.1.  Details of the Qualifications :
  Which is required by Recruitment advertisement  
:––––––––––––––. 
  a ward obtain institution   :–––––––––––.
  date of award  :–––––––––––.
  date of take an orth as a supreme court Lawyer  
:––––––––––––––.
 4.2. Details of the Qualifications Which is required 
under No. 06 of the Recruitment advertisement   
:–––––––––––.
 4.3. Extra Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
 4.4. Extra Professional Qualifications  :––––––––––.
 4.5. Experiance  :––––––––––––––.
 4.6. Language skills  :––––––––––––––.
 4.7. details of the information technology skills 
:––––––––––––––.
5.0 Have you been convicted by a court of Law for any 
offence? (tick (P) the relevant cage) (if yes explain):
 y es   No
6.0. Certification of the Candidate :
i do hereby honorary declare that the particulars furnished 
above are true to the best of my knowledge. i agree to bear 
any loss that may occur because of not completing a part of 
this and / or completing inaccurately. further, i declare that 
i have completed all the parts accurately.
i know that the statement in the application which is 
found to be false will make me liable disqualification if the it 
is detected before the selection and for dismissal if detected 
after the selection. i shall not change any particulars stated 
in this subsequently.
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––. 
7.0 attestation of the applicant’s signature :
i, certify that i personally know (Name in full) Mr/
Mrs/Ms ................ presenting this application is presently 
known to me and he put his signature before me on 
................ 
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature and frank of the attester.
date  :––––––––––––––.
full Name of the attester  :––––––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––.
(Should be attested by the official frank)
8.0 Certificate of the Head of the Institute :
i hereby recommend and submit the application of                       
Mr. .................... who is serving in this Ministry /department 
/ institute as .............................. and he could be released 
from the present post, if selected for this appointment.
signature of the Head of the institute :––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––. 
Name :––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––. 
(Should be attested by the official frank)
08–823

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2791
SRI LANkA AIR fORCE 
Regular / Volunteer 
Airmen / Airwomen Vacancies
V acaNciEs exist in the Regular / V olunteer force of 
the sri Lanka air force for airmen / airwomen in the 
trades given below and the required minimum and specific 
qualifications are stated against.
Basic Education Qualification :
 2. Passes in six (06) subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination from not more than two sittings, 
including sinhala / tamil and English languages. 
Specific Qualification :
 3. The specific qualification as per the Trade is as 
follows :
(a) Aeronautical Engineering Trades (Male / 
female) 
           
 (1) aircraft structural technician 
 (2) aircraft Engine technician 
 (3) aircraft Electrical & instrument technician 
 (4) aircraft safety Equipment technician  
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple (s)  passes in sinhala / tamil 
and English languages, an simple (s)  passes 
in Mathematics or science. a credit pass for 
Mathematics / science is essential.
  
 and
 Priority will be given to aircraft Electrical & 
instrument technician has successful completion 
of two year fulltime National Certificate Course 
in Engineering craft Practice at a technical 
college recognized by the Ministry of V ocational 
and technical training or equivalent.
(b) General Engineering Trades (Male)
(1) armament Mechanic 
(2) Motor transport Mechanic
(3) surface technician
(4) sheet Metal Worker
(5) carpenter Mechanic   
(6) general Mechanic
(7) aircraft Welder 
(8) air Photographer technician
(9) turner
 Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil, English languages, 
Mathematics and science. a credit (c) pass 
for Mathematics / science will be an added 
qualification.
(10) Operator Motor Transport (Male / 
female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil languages. 
(c) Electronics and Telecommunication 
Engineering Trades
 (1) air Radio technician (Male)
 (2) telecommunication technician (Male). 
      
 Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil, and English 
languages, Mathematics and science. a credit 
(c) pass for Mathematics / science is essential.
 (3) air communicator  (Male / female)
 (4) telephonist (Male / female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English languages.
(d) Information Technology Trade 
 Computer Technicians (male)
   
 Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English languages. 
Knowledge on computers will be an added 
qualification. 
(e) Medical Trades (Male / Female)
(1) Nursing Assistant (Male / Female)
     
(a) Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two 
sittings including English language. 
credit (c) passes in sinhala / tamil, 
Mathematics, science and one other 
subject. Having following passes at the 
gcE (a/L) Examination from science, 
Maths and agro science stream in one 
sitting will be added advantage for 
selection and a qualification for advance 
training under Ministry of Health 
services mentioned therein;

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2792
Having credit pass for English in gcE (o/L) examination with simple 03 passes for 
Biology / combined Maths / agriculture streams in gcE (a/L) examination in one 
sitting.     
-   Nursing diploma
Having credit pass for English in gcE (o/L) examination with two simple passes from 
Biology / combined Maths / Physics / agri science and credit pass for chemistry in 
gcE (a/L) examination in one sitting.
- Pharmacist 
- Medical Laboratory  
technologist   
Having credit pass for English in gcE (o/L) examination with two simple passes 
from chemistry, Physics / agro science and credit pass for Biology in gcE (a/L) 
examination in one sitting.
- Ecg /EEt 
- EEg technician 
- Entomology assistance
Having credit pass for English in gcE (o/L) examination with two simple passes 
for chemistry, Biology, combined Maths and credit pass for Physics in gcE (a/L) 
examination in one sitting.
- occupational therapist 
- X-Ray technician 
- Physiotherapist 
- ophthalmic tech 
Having simple (s) pass for English in gcE (o/L) examination two simple passes from 
chemistry, Physics, agro science and credit pass for Biology / combined Maths in 
gcE (a/L) examination in one sitting.
- afHi 
   
 (f)  Dental Assistant (Male / Female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including English 
language. credit (c) passes in sinhala / tamil 
language, Mathematics, science and one other 
subject. Having three passes at the gcE (a/L) 
Examination from science / Maths / technology 
streams in one sitting will be added advantage for 
selection and a qualification for advance training 
under Ministry of Health services.
  
 (g)  Administrative Trades (Male / Female)
 (1)  Administrative Assistant (Male / Female)
 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English 
languages and Mathematics. Knowledge on 
computers (Microsoft Office package) will be 
an added qualification.
 (2) Accounts Assistant (Male / Female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English 
languages and a credit (c) in Mathematics / 
Business & account studies. Knowledge on 
computers (Microsoft Office package) will be 
an added qualification.
  (h)  Operations Trades
 (1) Operations Air (male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil language and a credit 
(c) pass in English language.
 (2) Fire Fighter (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English 
languages. a valid heavy vehicle driving 
license will be an added qualification.
 (3) Operations Ground (Male / Female)
 (4) Dog Handler (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English language.
 (j) Logistic Trades
 (1) Logistic Assistant (Male / Female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English languages. 
credit (c) pass in Mathematics / science / 
Business & account studies. Knowledge on 
computers (Microsoft Office package) will be 
an added qualification.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2793
 (2) Aviation fuel Quality Controller (male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English 
languages. credit (c) in Mathematics / science 
/ Business & account studies. Knowledge on 
computers (Microsoft Office package) will be 
an added qualification.
 (3) Catering Assistant (Male) 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English languages.
 (4) Ground Steward (Male / Female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English language. 
fluent in English language with communication 
skill. Experience and professional qualification 
in field of hospitality at Tourist Board 
authorized Hotels  (Ex: Waiter / Barman / 
House Keeper / Room Boy / Room attendance 
/ Room Steward) will be an added qualification.
 (5) Cabin Attendant (Male / Female) 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil language and a credit 
(c) in English language. fluent in English 
language with strong communication skill 
and having experience as a cabin assistant 
with pleasing personality will be an added 
qualification. Capable of reach to 212 Cm 
height by both hands (using toe). 
 (k) Police (Male / Female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including sinhala / 
tamil and English and Mathematics languages. 
Priority will be given to male and female candidates 
those who measured 5' 8" and 5' 6" or above in 
height respectively.
 (l) Musician (Male) - Dancer (Male / Female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including sinhala / tamil 
and English language. ability of indigenous and 
western playing of musical instrument or singing or 
dancing.  Suitable figure for dancing, ability for fork 
singing, playing dancing instrument, announcement, 
sound controller and capability for make-up will be 
considered as special qualification.
 (m) Physical Training Instructor (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including sinhala 
/ tamil and English language. National Level 
sports will be special qualification at selection. The 
practical test should pass all the candidates who 
were passing the preliminary interviews.
vACANCIES ExIST IN ThE SRI LANkA AIR 
FORCE REGULAR DIRECT ENTRY AIRMEN / 
AIRWOmEN
 4.  Trades & Educational, Professional Qualifications 
Required;
  (a)  General Engineering Trades (Male)
       (1) motor Transport mechanic
    Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil, English languages, 
Mathematics and science. a credit (c) pass 
for Mathematics / science will be an added 
qualification.
    Motor t ransport Mechanic technician will 
be enlisted as direct Entry subjected to their 
professional qualifications and experience in 
Motor Mechanic Certificate Course.
(b) Electronics and Telecommunication 
Engineering Trades (Regular - Male)
   (1) air Radio technician 
   (2) telecommunication technician 
   
    Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil, English languages, 
Mathematics and science. a credit pass for 
Mathematics / science is essential.
and
    successful completion of two years fulltime 
National course in Engineering craft 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2794
Practice (Electronics / telecommunications / 
Electrical) at a technical college recognized 
by the Ministry of V ocational and technical 
training or equivalent.
(c) Computer Technician (male)
   Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English language.
   six month full time information technology 
course (Network / software developer, software 
and Hardware repairing) or up to one year 
part time information technology course at 
government institute or government registered 
Private institute. two years working experience 
in relevant field. 
  (d) Civil Engineering Trades (Male)
 (1) Electrical technician 
 (2) Mechanical technician 
 (3) construction Equipment technician 
 (4) air conditioner and Refrigeration 
  
  Passes in 06 subjects with two credit (c) 
passes at the gcE (o/L) Examination at not 
more than two sittings including sinhala / 
tamil and English language. NVQ Level 4 
or equivalent qualification with Six month 
course at government institute or government 
registered Private institute. one year working 
experience in the relevant field. 
 (5)  black Smith & Welder
  Passes in 06 subjects with two credit (c) 
passes at the gcE (o/L) Examination at not 
more than two sittings including sinhala / 
tamil language. NVQ Level 4 or equivalent 
qualification with Six month course at 
government institute or government registered 
Private institute. technical knowledge of ariel 
rigging and working experience in the ariel 
rigging field are added qualifications and 
priority will be given during the selection.
 (e) Admin Education (Pre-school) - female 
 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English language. 
diploma from a government recognized 
institute in Pre-school teaching with minimum 
of one year post qualification experience as a 
Pre-school teacher. strong communication skills 
in English Language and fluency in Aesthetic 
subject (singing, instrument Playing, dancing 
and Art) would be an added qualification.
vACANCIES ExIST IN ThE SRI LANkA AIR 
FORCE VOLUNTEER  AIRMEN / AIRWOMEN
 5. Trades & Educational, Professional Qualifications 
Required:-
 a. Electronics and Telecommunication 
Engineering Trades (Male)
(1) air Radio t echnician 
(2) t elecommunication technician 
   
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil, English languages, 
Mathematics and science. a credit (c) pass for 
Mathematics / science is essential.
and
  successful completion of two year fulltime 
National course in Engineering craft Practice 
(Electronics / telecommunications / Electrical) 
at a technical college recognized by the 
Ministry of V ocational and technical training 
or equivalent.
 d. Tech Chemist (male) 
  Passed gcE (o/L) (Minimum 6 passes 
including mathematics) at not more than two 
sitting including a simple (s) pass in sinhala / 
tamil and English language. simple (s) passes 
in three subjects at the gcE (a/L) examination 
in Physical / Bio science / chemistry subject.
 
  Possesses a Diploma or equivalent qualification 
and the more than two years working experience 
in surface treatment field.
 c.   Physical Training Instructor (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including sinhala / tamil and English language. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2795
two years or more experience in Electronic Exercise Machine Maintenance / Repairing will be added 
qualification. The practical test should be passed by all the candidates who are facing the preliminary interviews.
6. Other Qualifications; 
 (a) Candidates must fulfil the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular / V olunteer Air 
force;
(1)     Nationality :  Must be a citizen of sri Lanka
(2) civil status :  Regular  - unmarried 
   V olunteer / direct Entry - unmarried 
    - Married 
(3)     age as at 15 december 2019
 Regular
 Male  : Not less than 18 years and not more than 23 years 
 female  : Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years 
 V olunteer
 Male  : Not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years
 female  : Not less than 18 years and not more than 28 years
 direct Entry
 Male  : Not less than 18 years and not more than 28 years 
 female  : Not less than 18 years and not more than 26 years
(4)      Height : 5 feet 5 inches (165 cm) and above (Male)
    5 feet 3 inches (160 cm) and above (female)
(5)      Weight : 17 < BMi < 26 (Male) Body Mass index =  Weight (kg)
    17 < BMi < 25 (female)  Height (m)2
(6)     Vision colour standard   : cP2
(7) Visual acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles and lens)
    6/18 for one eye and it will be corrected 6/6 with   spectacles for direct entry 
and  V olunteer candidates
(8) chest     : 32" (Male)
(9) civil status : unmarried 
 (a) Regular airmen / airwomen candidates must be unmarried and not allowed to marry 
until the completion of two years from the date of enlistment and until one year after the 
completion of the Basic trade training course and whichever is later. 
 (b) V olunteer airmen / airwomen candidates must be unmarried and not allowed to marry 
until the completion of one year from the combat training course and whichever is later.
 (c) direct Entry airmen / airwomen are not allowed to marry until the completion of initial 
combat training course.
 (d) ops grd trade airwomen are not allowed to marry until the completion of four (4) years 
from the date of enlistment. 
 (e) Dancer trade Airwomen are not allowed to marry until the completion of five (5) years from 
the date of enlistment.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2796
7. candidates who do not possess the required educational 
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 
02, 03, 04, 05 and 06 will be rejected. on arrival for the 
first interview the Height, Weight, Chest and Vision 
will be measured. candidates whose Height, Weight, 
Chest and Vision are below the standard specified in 
the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional 
skills will not be interviewed. any candidate who has 
special ability / qualifications may at the discretion of 
the commander of the air force be considered, even 
though he/she does not have the pre requisite on any 
of above, provided that he/she possess the requisite of 
the Professional / Special qualifications for the best 
interest of the sri Lanka air force..
8. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
9. Conditions of Service : 
 (a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air 
force as an airmen / airwomen on a Regular 
or V olunteer engagement and will undergo a 
Basic combat training course. on successful 
completion of training, the duration of which 
will depend on the trade, the status allocated on 
his / her enlistment as an other rank.
 (b) airmen / airwomen will be required to undergo 
training at a place in sri Lanka or abroad as 
decided by the commander of the air force in 
consultation with the Ministry of defence.
 (c) during the period of training as airmen / 
airwomen and thereafter, personnel will be 
subject to air force Law.
 (d) Every airmen / airwomen will be provided 
all items of uniforms, equipment and medical 
facilities.
 (e) during the period of training, an airmen / 
airwomen will be accommodated in an air 
force Mess and will be provided with food.
 (f) in the event of a airmen / airwomen voluntarily 
terminating his / her candidature during training, 
the parent or guardian will be required to refund 
to the Republic of sri Lanka all expenses 
incurred up to that time by the Republic of sri 
Lanka on account of such airmen / airwomen.
 (g) if at any time during his / her course a airmen / 
airwomen is reported by the authorities as being 
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to 
causes within his / her control to qualify for a 
commission, his / her parent or guardian will be 
required to refund to the sri Lanka air force all 
expenses incurred on his / her training and will 
be required to enter into a bond to this effect 
with the commander of the air force acting on 
behalf of the government of sri Lanka. 
 (h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as 
given in cage 28 of the application form in 
respect of sub paragraphs (f) and (g) above, 
and forward them together with the application. 
Parent or guardian will be required to enter in 
to a bond subsequently in this form with the 
Republic of   sri Lanka prior to the appointment 
of these candidates as airmen / airwomen.
 (j) candidates who possess the requirement 
as per para 1 to 4 will be called for the 
Preliminary interview and if successful will 
be called for Medical Examinations and all 
candidates selected will be medically and 
physically examined under sri Lanka air 
force arrangements to check the suitability 
in par with the sri Lanka air force Medical 
fitness standards. Candidates who successfully 
complete these tests will be called for the final 
interview. the required number of candidates 
per trade will be selected according to merit at 
these interviews and tests.
 (k) a  single airman is required to live in the airmen 
barracks. He / she is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. a single airmen’s 
ration allowance is paid to the Mess.
 (l) a  married airmen / airwomen may be provided 
with a married quarter if available. Recovery of 
rental will be as applicable to public servants. 
 (m) all airmen / airwomen are liable to be posted 
for duty or training in any part of the world at 
any time.
 (n) all airmen / airwomen are governed by the air 
force act and orders issued from time to time.
10. Terms of Engagement ; 
 
 (a) Regular Airmen and Airwomen : selected 
candidates will be enlisted to the third class 
of the rank of aircraftsman / aircraftwomen / 
Leading aircraftsman / corporal in the Regular 
air force and shall be required to serve for 
twelve (12) years in which eight (08) years will 
have to be served continuously whilst serving a 
further four (04) years in the Regular air force 
(Reserve) when called to do so. opportunities 
exist for suitable airmen / airwomen to extend 
for further service on completion of eight years 
of service on the discretion of the commander 
of the sri Lanka air force.  

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2797
 (b) Volunteer Airmen and Airwomen : selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of 
Aircraftsman in the V olunteer Air Force and shall be required to serve for five (05) years. Opportunities exist 
for suitable to extend for further service on completion of five (05) years of service on the discretion of the 
commander of the sri Lanka air force.
11. Official Language Requirements : the selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made 
or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
12. Pay and Allowances
(a) since a consolidated revision is in progress at present and same revision completes in year 2020, following are 
the amounts payable in 2016. further, it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the initial 
step of particular rank.
 Year 2016 2017 2018  2019  2020 
 Rank (Annual)  (Annual)  (Annual)  (Annual)  (Annual)    
 
air craftsmen 207,984.00 244,608.00 281232.00 317856.00 354480.00 (7x3600-19x4440)
Leading aircraftsmen 214,320.00 252,060.00 289800.00 327540.00 365280.00 (4x3600-19x4440)
corporal 220,656.00 259,512.00 298368.00 337224.00 376080.00 (1x3600-10x4440-9x5940)
sergeant 227,808.00 267,996.00 308184.00 348372.00 388560.00 (3x4440-9x5940-3x7920)
flight sergeant 232,848.00 237,996.00 315144.00 356292.00 397440.00 (1x4440-9x5940-3x7920)
Warrant Officer 242,352.00 285,204.00 328056.00 370908.00 413760.00 (7x5940-14x7920)
Master Warrant Officer 271,452.00 319,404.00 367356.00 415308.00 463260.00 (13x7920)
(b) Pensions / Gravities : Payable in terms of the air force Pensions and gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. all airmen / airwomen are contributors to the Widows and orphans Pension (armed force) 
scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) scheme Regulations 
1970.
13. Instructions to Applicants
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants own handwriting in the form specified below. All cages of 
the application should be filled with much detail as possible. Applications should be sent by registered post 
addressed to "COmmAND RECRuITING OffICER, SRI LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING 
SChOOL, kOTuGODA" so as to reach there not later than 1200 noon on 04 september 2019. the Envelope 
enclosing the application should be marked "APPLICATION FOR REGULAR / VOLUNTEER AIRMEN 
/ AIRWOMEN" on the top left corner. applications received at sri Lanka air force, Kotugoda after closing 
date and time and not in accordance with the requirement of this notification and not in registered post will not 
be considered.
(b) candidates who are in government service / corporations / Boards / civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through their Heads of departments / corporations / Boards / civil Establishments and should bear 
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals with certified photo copy of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to do so :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and a photo copy (Certificate issued for the purpose of the education 
code will not be accepted),
(2) National identity card and a photo copy,

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2798
(3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational qualifications required for the 
branch applied and photo copies.
(4) Certificates of trade / technical training 
and / or experience (if any) obtained from 
a recognized institution and photo copies.
(5) Two recent certificates of character 
(within 06 months obtained). one of 
these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has to know  the 
applicant for more than two years or from 
the present employer (if employed).
(6) Original certificat es in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities 
and photo copies.
(7)  A plain folder with file tag.
(8)  A colour photo of 2 x 2½ Inches certified 
by the gs.
       
(d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
(f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
14. any statement in the application which is found 
to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to 
disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered before 
the selection and for dismissal if discovered after 
selection.
15. Preliminary selections will be made amongst those 
candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates 
so selected will be required to undergo tests as may 
be prescribed by the commander of the air force. 
candidates considered suitable for the interview will 
be required to appear for an interview at their own 
expense before an air force Recruiting Board. such 
candidates will be informed individually of place, 
date and time. 
16. on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
interviews, he  is to produce the National identity 
card. candidates who do not have the National 
identity card could produce some other form of the 
accepted identification. However, no candidates will 
be enlisted without the National identity card.
17.     all candidates who are selected is required to undergo 
a medical screening test and a physical fitness test as 
per sri Lanka air force Medical and fitness standard 
during the selection process.
18. the required number of candidates per trade will 
be selected according to high marks merit at these 
interviews and tests.
19. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his testimonial. any form 
of canvassing or attempt to influence the selection 
of a candidate will result in disqualification of such 
candidates. 
20. candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified. 
 dLs 
dias, 
 RsP and three Bars, VsV , usP, Msc
 (def & strat stu), ndc, psc
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
sri Lanka air force
P.o. Box 594
colombo 02.
aPPLicatioN foR aiRMEN / aiRWoMEN iN tHE 
…………………………………..tRadE of tHE sRi 
LaNKa aiR foRcE
 1. Nationality : .................................................................
  (state whether citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
 2. full Name:  ............................…………………….......
  (as per the National identity card)
 3. National identity card Number : .................................
 4. Permanent address : ....................................................
 
 5.  Postal address : ...........................................................

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2799
 6. date of Birth :  ....................................................................................................................................................................
  (age as at 15 december 2019) :  years : ….……. Months : ……..… days : ……………
 7. Height : …….…….………cm    (……………..feet ……………...inches)
 8. Nearest Police station to Permanent address : .................................................................................................................
 9. district :  ............................................................................................................................................................................. 
 10. Electorate : .........................................................................................................................................................................
 11. gs division : .....................................................................................................................................................................
 12. telephone Number : ..........................................................................................................................................................
 13. Married or single : .............................................................................................................................................................
 14. gender : .............................................................................................................................................................................
 15. school attended : ..............................................................................................................................................................
 16. Particulars of School Qualifications obtained :
Name of School Type of examination Year and Index No. of
the examination
Subjects passed (including  
grading)
ordinary Level
advanced Level
other 
 17. Particulars of employment since leaving school (if applicable) :
Name and Address of employer Nature of employment Period of Service
From To
 
 18. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of Birth Occupation Present Address
father 
Mother
 19. Any special qualification for the post : ..............................................................................................................................
 20. details of current achievements in sports (give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. 
and standards / levels achieved) :  .....................................................................................................................................
 21. other achievements of note at school or with outside organizations (give details with dates / years etc.) :  ..................
 22. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps or Boy scout organization : ...........................…
 23. Have you applied earlier to join the sri Lanka air force or any of the armed services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications : ...............................................…........................... ........................…........................
 24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details : ................................................
 25. if earlier employed in a government department or in the Public sector / Board / corporation (including the central 
Bank, National Bank, universities, Joint stock companies controlled by the government etc.) reasons for termination 
of employment : ................................................................................................................................................................. 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2800
 26. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
  
 
  
 27.  declaration to be signed by the applicant : i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted 
and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are selected for commission in the sri Lanka air 
force published in the Gazette of the Republic of sri Lanka.
  .........................
  signature of applicant.
date :...............................
 28. declaration to be signed by the Parent or guardian of the applicant :
(a) i am the Parent / guardian of………………………………who is an applicant for a airmen / airwomen in the 
sri Lanka air force and who has signed the declaration in cage 27 of the form of application above. 
(b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of training 
for the following.
(1) t o refund to the Republic of sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant voluntarily terminating 
his / her candidature during his / her period of training all expenses incurred up to that time by the 
Republic of sri Lanka on account of such applicant.
(2) t o refund to the Republic of sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant reported on by the 
authorities as being unsuitable (for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his / her own control) 
for the continuation of service all the expenses incurred on his / her account by the Republic of sri Lanka.
 …………………………...….
   signature of Parent / guardian.
date ...................................................
Name  ...................................................
                   (in block capitals)
address :...................................
 ……………………………..
 signature of first Witness.    
date ...................................................
Name ...................................................
                   (in block capitals)
address :...................................
 ………………………………..
 signature of second Witness.
date ...................................................
Name ...................................................
                   (in block capitals)
address :...................................
08-1018/3

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2801
SRI LANkA REGuLAR AIR fORCE
Officer Cadet and Lady Officer Cadet Vacancies
1. V acaNciEs exist in the sri Lanka Regular air force 
for Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the 
following branches.
 a. general duties Pilot Branch (Male/female)
 b. t echnical Engineering Branch (Male/female)
 c. Electronics Engineering Branch (Male/female)
 d. Logistics Branch (Male/female)
 e. administrative Branch (Male)
 f. administrative Regiment Branch (Male/
female) 
 g. Operations Air Branch (Air Traffic Controller) 
(Male)
 h. Provost Branch (Male/female)
 j. information technology Engineering Branch 
(Male/female)
2. applications are invited from male / female candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below.
bASIC EDuCATION QuALIfICATION 
Non Degree Programme
(a) Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the gcE 
(o/L) examination with compulsory credit 
(c) passes for English language, science, 
Mathematics and a simple (s) pass and above 
for sinhala / tamil language in one sitting 
(additional and optional subjects are not 
considered). 
Degree Programme
(b) In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, 
minimum of three simple (s) passes at the gcE 
(a/L) examination and passes may be from any 
stream in one sitting. 
3. SPECIfIC QuALIfICATIONS (DEGREE 
PROGRAmmE)
  BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications 
(accredited by the general sir John Kotelawala 
defence university).
(a) General Duties Pilot /Operations Air (Air 
Traffic Controller) Branches 
 In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, simple 
(s) passes in three subjects at the gcE (a/L) 
examination in Physical science / Bio science 
and technology streams (as applicable) in one 
sitting.
(b) Technical (Aeronautical) Engineering / 
Electronics Engineering Branches
 In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, simple 
(s) passes in three subjects at the gcE (a/L) 
examination in Physical science (combined 
Maths, Physics and chemistry) streams in one 
sitting.
(c) Logistics/Administrative/Administrative 
Regiment / Provost Branches
 In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, 
simple (s) passes in three subjects at the gcE 
(a/L) examination in Physical / Bio science / 
commerce / technology / arts streams in one 
sitting.
(d) Information Technology Engineering Branch
 In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, 
simple (s) passes in three subjects at the gcE 
(a/L) examination in technology stream with 
information and communication technology or 
Physical science stream in one sitting
(e) Special Note:-  Pearson / Edexcel - international 
ordinary / advance Level, gcsE, gcE 
and Cambridge exam qualification may be 
considered subjected to a confirmation obtained 
from the department of Examination, sri Lanka, 
to effect  that it is equvalant to above basic 
educational qualifications. Further candidates 
who are applying for the degree programme 
are to indicate whether they have qualified 
and applied for university admission when 
indicating a/L results in the application form.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2802
4. Other Requirements.  Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular 
air force.
a. Nationality                   :-   Must be a citizen of sri Lanka
b. age                           :-   Not less than 18 years and not more than   22 years as at 15th december 2019
c. Height                :-  Male  - 167.5cm (5' 6") and above
      female  - 162.5cm (5' 4") and above
d. Weight                      :-  Male      - 17 < BMi < 26                 BMi = Weight(Kg)           
   female   - 17 < BMi < 25                   Height (m)2 
e. chest  :-  Male  - 32" (Minimum)
f. colour Vision standard :-  cP2
g. Visual acuity                :-  Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
   (Without spectacles / contact Lens)
h. civil status              :-  candidates must be unmarried. No cadet will be permitted to marry whilst under 
training and for a further period of one (1) year from the date of commissioning.
5. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
6. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirement of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first 
interview the height, vision and weight will be measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight are below the 
standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
7. Any candidate who has special skill / qualifications may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be 
considered, even though he / she does not have any of above pre-requisites, provided that he/she possess the requisite 
of the Professional/ Special qualifications for the best interest of the Sri Lanka Air Force. 
8. Conditions of Service.
a. the candidate is to initially enlist in the air force as a cadet on a regular engagement in the same manner as 
for other Ranks and will undergo a Basic combat training course. on successful completion of training, the 
duration of which will depend on the branch, the status allocated on his / her enlistment as an other Rank will 
lapse and will receive a Permanent Commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
b. cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the commander of 
the air force in consultation with the Ministry of defence.
c. during the period of training as cadets and thereafter, personnel will be subject to air force Law.
d. Every cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
e. during the period of training, a cadet will be accommodated in an air force Mess and will be provided with 
food.
f. in the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating his / her candidature for a commission during training, the parent 
or guardian will be required to refund to the Republic of sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the 
Republic of sri Lanka on account of such cadet.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2803
 
g. if at any time during his / her course a cadet is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of 
misconduct or due to causes within his / her control to qualify for a commission, his / her parent or guardian will 
be required to refund to the sri Lanka air force all expenses incurred on his / her training and will be required 
to enter into a bond to this effect with the commander of the air force acting on behalf of the government of 
sri Lanka.
      
h. Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 28 of the application form in respect of sub paragraphs 
(f) and (g) above, and forward them together with the application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter in 
to a bond subsequently in this form with the Republic of sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates 
as cadets.
j. candidates who possess the requirement as per para 2 and 3 will be called for the Preliminary interview and if 
successful will be called for Medical Examinations and all candidates selected will be medically examined under 
Sri Lanka Air Force arrangements to check the suitability in par with the Sri Lanka Air Force Medical fitness 
standards. the general duties Pilots Branch candidates, if successful will be called for the flying aptitude tests. 
All the Branch Candidates if successful will be called for the Officer Quality Tests. Thereafter, if successful all 
the candidates will be called for the familiarization training programme. candidates who successfully complete 
these tests will be called for the final interview. the required number of candidates per branch will be selected 
according to merit at these interviews and tests.
k. A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He / She is provided with furnished accommodation and 
food. Batman service will be provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to the 
Mess.
l. A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable 
to public servants. 
m. All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
n. All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
9. Official Language Requirements. the selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made 
or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions the Official Language Act, No 33 of 1956.
10. Pay and Allowances.
a. since a consolidated revision is in progress at present, and same revision completes in year 2020, followings are 
the amounts payable in 2019. further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the initial 
step of particular rank.
 
                                      Year 2019  Adjustment  Allowance 2020 (Annual)
   (Annual) 2019 (Annual)
            Rank Rs. Rs. Rs. 
Officer Cadets 348,372.00 - 388,560.00
Pilot Officer (Cadet) 415,308.00 - 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) 450,828.00 - 502,860.00
Flying Officer 512,148.00 - 571,380.00- (30x16,020)  = 1,051,980.00
flight Lieutenant 598,332.00 - 667,500.00 - (24x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
squadron Leader 655,788.00 - 731,580.00 - (22x16,020) = 1,084,020.00

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2804
(b) Other Allowances.
 (1) cost of living allowance of Rs. 7800/- per 
month.
 (2) incentive allowance of Rs. 250/- per month 
after five years of service.
 (3) Hard allowance Rs.620/- Per month.
 (4) additional Hard allowance Rs. 4380/- per 
month for those serving in operational areas.
 (5) special allowance (1) Rs. 3,100/- per month 
(Rs.100/- will be paid for per day).
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1,000/- per month.
 (7) uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255/- per 
month.
 (8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50/- per month 
(if permitted to live out).
 
 (9) Ration allowance Rs. 24,005.47 per month 
(if permitted to live out Rs.774.37 per day).
 (10) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11) three sets of holiday railway warrants per 
year (For Officer, spouse & children).
 (12)  an additional set of railway warrants or 
the reimbursement of bus fare for Officers 
living in Messes to travel from the Mess to 
the hometown once a month.
 (13) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (14) free medical facilities (including for 
families if applicable).
 (15) Married Officers permitted to live - out are 
entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius.
 (16) flying pay will be paid for those who are in 
the general duties Pilot Branch.
 (17) Rent allowances for married Officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. 
Pilot Officer to Group Captain & above Rs. 
1,600/- to Rs. 8,500/- per month.
 
 (18) Engineering allowances Rs.15,000.00 per 
month. (applicable to Engineering Officers 
only)
11. Pensions/Gratuities.  Pensions / gratuities:-  Payable 
in terms of the air force Pensions and gratuities code 
1981 and as amended from time to time. All Officers 
are contributors to the Widows and orphans Pension 
(armed force) scheme. Rate of contributions are as 
per Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) 
scheme Regulations 1970.
12. Instructions to Applicants.
(a) applications should be submitted in applicant’s 
own hand writing in terms of the form specified 
below. all cages of the application should 
be completed neatly with as much details as 
possible. applications should be forwarded 
under registered cover to : "COmmAND 
RECRuITING OffICER, SRI LANkA  AIR 
fORCE TRADE TRAINING SChOOL, 
kOTuGODA"  so  as  to  reach   him  not  
later  than 1200  noon  on 04 th September 
2019. the envelope enclosing the application 
should be marked "APPLICATION fOR 
CADETSHIP / LADY CADETSHIP IN 
ThE………………… bRANCh. a candidate 
will be allowed to apply for only one branch 
and if they apply for more than one branch 
the applications will be rejected.  applications 
received after the closing date and not in 
accordance with the requirements of this 
notification and not in registered post mail will 
not be entertained. 
(b) candidates who are in government service / 
corporations / Boards /   civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through 
their Heads of department / corporations / 
Boards / civil Establishments and should bear 
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will 
be released if selected. 
(c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photo copy of the 
following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2805
(1) Certificate of Registra tion of Birth and 
a photo copy. (Certificate issued for the 
purpose of the education code will not be 
accepted).
(2) National identity card and a photo copy.
(3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational qualifications required for the 
branch applied and photo copies.
(4) Certificates of trade / technical training 
and / or experience (if any) obtained from 
a recognized institution and photo copies.
(5) Two recent certificates of character 
(within 06 months obtained). one of 
these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has knowledge of 
the applicant for more than two years or 
from the present employer (if employed).
(6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities 
and photo copies.
(7)  A plain folder with file tag.
(8)  A colour photo of 2x2½ inches certified 
by the grama Niladari.
d. applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
e. No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
f. the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
    
13. any statement in the application which is found 
to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to 
disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered before 
the selection and for dismissal if discovered after 
selection.
14. Selection Interviews.
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfill the above 
conditions. candidates so selected will be 
required to undergo tests as may be prescribed 
by the Commander of the Air Force. The final 
selection will then be made after an interview of 
those selected candidates by a selection board 
appointed by the Ministry of defence.
(b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date 
of such interviews. travelling or other expenses 
will not be paid in this respect.
(c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he / she is to produce his / her 
National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
(d) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo written, practical and Officer Quality 
test during the selection process. 
(e) all candidates who are selected are required 
to undergo a medical screening test as per sri 
Lanka air force Medical standard during the 
selection process.
(f) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his / her testimonial. 
Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
(g) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
 dLs 
dias, 
 RsP and three Bars, VsV , usP, Msc
 (def & strat stu), ndc, psc
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
sri Lanka air force
P.o. Box 594
colombo 02.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2806
Official use only
aPPLicatioN foR officER cadEt / Lady officER cadEt iN tHE
…………………………..  BRaNcH of tHE sRi LaNKa aiR foRcE
 1. Nationality:  ........................................................................................................................................................................ 
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
 2. full Name (as per the National identity card):  ................................................................................................................
 3. National identity card Number: ........................................................................................................................................
 4. Permanent address : ...........................................................................................................................................................
 5.  Postal address : ..................................................................................................................................................................
 6. date of Birth :  ....................................................................................................................................................................
  (age as at 15th december 2019 :  years :….........…. Months :….........….   days :….........…. 
 7. Height :.................... cm    (………..feet ……….inches)
 8. Nearest Police station to Permanent address: - ........................................................................................................... 
 9. district :  .............................................................................................................................................................................
 10. Electorate : .........................................................................................................................................................................
 11. grama Niladhari division : ................................................................................................................................................
 12. telephone Number : ...........................................................................................................................................................
 13. Married or single: ..............................................................................................................................................................
 14. gender : .............................................................................................................................................................................. 
 15. school attended : ...............................................................................................................................................................
 16. Particulars of School Qualifications Obtained:-
Name of 
School Type of examination Year and Index number 
of the  examination
Subjects passed      
(including grading)
ordinary Level
advanced Level 
(To mention whether qualified or not 
to apply for university admission)
 yes                  No general English
common general test
other/Professional

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2807
 17. Particulars of employment since leaving school: - (if applicable)  
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
 18. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Father’ s & 
Mother’ s NIC No. Occupation Present addressPast Present
 19. Any special qualification for the post: ...............................................................................................................................
 20. details of current achievements in sports (give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. 
and standards / levels achieved): ........................................................................................................................................
 21. other achievements of note at school or with outside organizations (give details with dates / years etc.):  ....................
 22. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps scouting  organization : .............................
 23. Have you applied earlier to join the sri Lanka air force or any of the armed services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications: ......................................................................................................................................
 24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details : ................................................
 25. if earlier employed in a government department or in the Public sector / Board / corporation (including the central 
Bank, National Bank, universities, Joint stock companies controlled by the government etc.) reasons for termination 
of employment: ..................................................................................................................................................................
 26. Particulars of testimonials:-
  .
Name Designation Postal Address
27.  declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
  i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the sri Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Republic 
of sri Lanka.
  .........................
  signature of applicant.
date :...............................

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2808
 28. declaration to be signed by the Parent or guardian of the applicant :
(a) i am the Parent / guardian of………………………………who is an applicant for a cadetship in the sri Lanka 
air force and who has signed the declaration in cage 27 of the form of application above. 
(b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of training 
for the following.
(1) to refund to the Republic of sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant voluntarily terminating 
his / her candidature for a commission during his / her period of training all expenses incurred up to that 
time by the Republic of sri Lanka on account of such applicant.
(2) to refund to the Republic of sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant reported on by the 
authorities as being unsuitable (for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his / her own control) 
for the issue of a commission all the expenses incurred on his / her account by the Republic of sri Lanka.
 …………………………...….
   signature of Parent / guardian.
date ...................................................
Name  ...................................................
                   (in block capitals)
address :...................................
 ……………………………..
 signature of first Witness.  
date ...................................................
Name ...................................................
                   (in block capitals)
address :...................................
 ………………………………..
 signature of second Witness.
date ...................................................
Name ...................................................
                   (in block capitals)
address :................................... 
08-1018/1
––––––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  AIR  fORCE 
Officer Vacancies
1. Vacancies exist for suitable Male / female 
Commissioned Officers in the Regular / V olunteer 
force of the sri Lanka air force in the following 
Branches. 
a. t echnical Engineering Branch
b. Electronic Engineering Branch
c. Logistics Branch
d. Medical Branch
e. dental Branch
f. administrative Legal Branch
g.      administrative Education Branch
h. information technology Engineering Branch
2. applications are invited from those candidates 
possessing the professional qualifications given 
below.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2809
 bASIC EDuCATION QuALIfICATION 
(a) Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the gcE 
(o/L) examination with compulsory  credit 
(c) passes for English language, science, 
Mathematics and a simple (s) pass and above 
for sinhala / tamil language in one sitting 
(additional and optional subjects are not 
considered). 
(b) Minimum of three simple (s) passes at the gcE 
(a/L) examination and passes may be from any 
stream in one sitting.
(c) Pearson / Edexcel / international ordinary / 
advance Level, gcsE, gcE and cambridge 
exam qualification may be considered 
subjected to a confirmation obtained from the 
department of Examination, sri Lanka to effect 
that it is equalant to above basic educational 
qualifications.
 PROFESSIONAL / ACADEMIC 
QuALIfICATION
(a) TEChNICAL ENGINEERING bRANCh
(1) Chemist - male (v olunteer)   Bsc in 
chemical technology degree or equivalent 
and more than three years experience in 
surface treatment or equivalent field.
(b) ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING bRANCh
(1) Electronics Engineering Officer - Male 
(Regular)     
 Bachelors  Engineering degree in 
Electronics & t elecommunication 
Engineering or Bachelors degree in 
Physical science with Electronics / 
telecommunication as a main subject  from 
recognized university or National diploma 
in technology (Ndt) in Electronics 
& t elecommunication Engineering 
technology from the university of 
Moratuwa or Higher National diploma 
in Electrical & Electronics Engineering 
(HNdE) from sri Lanka institute of 
advanced technological Education or 
National diploma in Engineering science 
(NdEs) in Electronics & communication 
Engineering from institute of Engineering 
technology. associate membership in 
iEsL will be added advantage.
 
(c) LOGISTICS bRANCh
(1) Logistics Officers – Male / Female 
(Regular)    
 Bachelors degree in Logistics/ 
Bachelors degree in Logistics (with 
honours or special) Bachelors degree 
in commerce, Bachelors degree in 
finance and management preferably 
with post graduate diploma in Logistics 
Management/ supply chain Management 
or an equivalent qualification from a 
recognized local/ foreign university. 
Post qualification experience in Logistics 
services, auditing experience is 
preferable.     
(2) Mess Manager – Male (Regular)      
Bachelor degree or Higher diploma in 
Hotel Management or completion of all 
4 levels of full time basic courses and 
completion of intermediate and advance 
level in hospitality industry training from 
a recognized local/ foreign institute with 
minimum of 02 years post qualification 
experience in star class Hotel in cookery 
in executive capacity.   
(d) mEDICAL bRANCh  
(1) Medical Officers - Male/ Female (Regular/ 
volunteer) MBBs or a Medical degree 
equivalent to MBBs (sri Lanka) from any 
recognized university of a foreign country 
which is accepted by sri Lanka Medical council 
and full registration in sLMc.
(2) Consultant Physician - Male/ Female (Volunteer)
(a) MD (General/Medicine) with board certification.
(b) Registered with the sri Lanka Medical council 
(sLMc) as a consultant Physician. 
(3) Consultant Surgeon - Male/ Female (Volunteer)
(a) MS (General Surgery) with board certification.
(b) Registered with the sri Lanka Medical council 
(sLMc) as a consultant surgeon. 

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2810
(4) Consultant Anaesthetist - Male/ Female (Volunteer)
(a) MD (Anesthesiology) with board certification.
(b) Registered with the sri Lanka Medical council 
(sLMc) as a consultant anesthetist.
(5) Consultant Pediatrician - Male/ Female (Volunteer)
(a) MD (Pediatric) with board certification. 
(b) Registered with the sri Lanka Medical council 
(sLMc) as a consultant Pediatrician.
(6) Consultant Gynaecologist Obstetrician - Male/ 
female (volunteer)
(a) Ms (gynecology and obstetrician) with board 
certification. 
(b) Registered with the sri Lanka Medical council 
(sLMc) as a consultant gynaecologist and 
obstetrician.
 Special Note: consultants below the age 
of 40 years as at 15 th december 2019 will 
be considered for the selection. However, 
consultants over 40 years as at 15 th december 
2019 and having experience and added 
qualifications will be considered for selection 
(Rank : Wing commander) with the discretion 
of the commander of the air force.
(e) DENTAL bRANCh
(1) Dental Officer - Male/ Female (Regular/
volunteer)        Bds or equivalent from 
any recognized university of foreign 
country with full registration with the sri 
Lanka Medical council.
(2) Pre - Intern Trainees - Male/ Female 
(Regular)    Students who have completed 
final (Part 1) of BDS course and above 
of a Bds degree equivalent to Bds (sri 
Lanka) from any recognized university of 
a foreign country which is accepted by sri 
Lanka Medical council with or without 
provincial registration at sri Lanka 
Medical council will be considered. 
those candidates who are selected have 
to qualify with full registration with the 
sri Lanka Medical council within 05 
years from the date of enlistment.  
(f) ADmINISTRATIvE LEGAL bRANCh
(1) Legal Officer - Male (Regular)    
attorney-at-Law of the supreme court of 
sri Lanka.
(g) ADmINISTRATIvE EDuCATION 
bRANCh
(1) English Language Instructor - Male/
Female (Regular / Volunteer)     
successful completion of three (3) years 
teacher training course as an English 
Language teacher at the "National 
college of Education" or two (2) years 
teacher training course as an English 
Language teacher at the government 
teachers training college of Education or 
Bachelors degree  with English Language 
as a subject or a Bachelors degree B.Ed 
(Bachelor of Education) in English or a 
Bachelors degree Ba  / Bsc in English 
medium  or diploma in Education or 
Masters degree (Ma / Msc) with English 
Language as a subject or Master degree 
(Ma / Msc) in English medium.
(2) French and Chinese Language Instructors - Male/
Female (Regular/Volunteer) 
 successful completion of three (3) years teacher 
training from a government or government recognized 
foreign teacher training institution or one year 
diploma in french / chinese language with 03 years 
teaching experience in a government or government 
approved Education institution or Bachelor’s degree 
with french/ chinese language with the knowledge of 
teaching french/ chinese as a foreign language or Pg 
dip in Education (Ma/Msc) in french/ chinese.
(h) INfORmATION TEChNOLOGy 
ENGINEERING bRANCh
(1) Network Administrator - Male / Female 
(Regular)    
 Bachelors Engineering degree in a computer 
related stream or Bachelors degree in a 
computer related stream or Bachelors degree 
with computer science as a major subject or 
Higher diploma in it or computer Engineering, 
National diploma in it  or computer 
Engineering science (NdEs) or equivalent 
with specialization knowledge and experience 
in data networks or server systems will be an 
advantage. 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2811
(2) Software Developer - Male / Female (Regular)     Bachelors Engineering degree in a computer related stream 
or Bachelors degree in a computer related stream or Bachelors degree with computer science as a major 
subject or Higher diploma in it  or computer Engineering, National diploma in it or computer Engineering 
science (NdEs) or equivalent specialization knowledge or experience in c#, asP.Net 4.0 and above, Wcf , 
MVc 5, Entity framework, LiNQ, angular, Visual studio 2015, team foundation server (tfs), NEt  core, 
Python, Big data analysis tools or Ms sQL will be an advantage.
3. Experience    Post qualification executive work experience in the relevant field of two years or more will be an added 
advantage to be considered by the interview board for the selection process.
4. basic Entry Requirements
a. Nationality :  Must be a citizen of sri Lanka
b. civil status :  Married / unmarried 
c. gender  :  Male / female (as applicable)
d. age  :  Not less than 18 years and not more than 
   33 years as at 15th december 2019 for all branches
e. Height  :  Male - 167.5cm (5' 6") and above for all branches
        165.0cm (5' 5") and above for Medical/   dental branches
     female - 162.5cm (5' 4") and above for all branches
      160.0cm (5' 3") and above for Medical/ dental branches
f. Weight :  Male     - 17 < BMi < 26    BMi =  Weight (Kg) 
   female - 17 < BMi < 25      Height (m)2
   
g. chest  : Minimum 32" (Male)
h. colour Vision standard :  cP2
j. Visual acuity  :  Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (Without spectacles)
 
    Non-technical Branch 6/18 in each eye (corrected visual acuity with spectacle  
  should be 6/6 in each eye.
5. Special Note
a. Applications of candidates who do not fulfil the requirement of para 2, 3 and 4 will be rejected. On arrival for 
the first interview the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight 
are below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be 
interviewed. 
b. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant or Flying Officer or Pilot Officer in 
keeping with their professional qualification and experience at the discretion of the Commander of Air Force.
c. All Candidates who are selected are required to undergo a written, practical and an Officer Quality Test during 
the selection process.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2812
d. all candidates who are selected are required to undergo a medical screening test as per sri Lanka air force 
Medical standard during the selection process. 
e. all Masters, Bachelors degrees and diplomas should be awarded from a recognized university accepted by the 
university grant commission of sri Lanka.
f. Any candidate who has special qualifications may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be 
considered, even though he / she does not have any of above pre requisites, provided that he / she possess the 
requisite of the professional / special qualifications for the best interest of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
g. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
h. Official Language Requirements   selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made 
or may be made hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of sri Lanka and in particular 
for implementing the provisions in the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
j. selected candidates will be required to undergo training at such places as decided by the commander of the air 
Force. If at any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons 
of misconduct or due to causes within his / her control, he / she will be liable to have his / her commission 
withdrawn and / or be subject to other disciplinary action in accordance with the sri Lanka air force disciplinary 
Regulations.
k. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air Force are in terms of     Sri Lanka Air Force 
Regulations published in gazette No. 10,240 of 27 april 1951 and as amended from time to time. in terms of 
Section 10 of the Air Force Act, "Every officer shall hold his / her appointment during the President's pleasure". 
However an officer has no right to resign his / her commission unilaterally, but under provision of Section 11 of 
the air force act may be allowed by the President to do so. the provisions of any Bond / agreement envisaging 
a period of obligatory service in respect of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions of 
section 11 of the air force act stated above. Retirement from the air force will be applicable under conditions 
specified in the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.  
l. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
m. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
n. A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He / She are provided with furnished accommodation 
and food. Batman service will also be provided. A single officer's ration allowance and batman allowance are 
paid to the Mess.
p. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the 
Establishment Code. Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled to a rental allowance 
as stated in para 6. e. (11).   
6. Pay and Allowances
a. since a consolidated revision is in progress at present, and same revision completes in year 2020, followings are 
the amounts payable in 2019. further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the initial 
step of particular grade.
   

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2813
                           Year
    
Rank
2019
(Annual)
Adjustment 
Allowance 2019
(Annual)
2020
(Annual)
Pilot Officer (Cadet) 415,308.00 - 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) 450,828.00 - 502,860.00
Flying Officer 512,148.00 - 571,380.00 - (30x16020)  = 1,051,980.00
flight Lieutenant 598,332.00 - 667,500.00 - (24x16020) = 1,051,980.00
squadron Leader 655,788.00 - 731,580.00 - (22x16020) = 1,084,020.00
Wing commander 673,332.00 - 751,140.00 -  (17x19560) = 1,083,660.00
(b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers   
                          Year
   Grade
2019
(Annual)
Adjustment 
Allowance
(Annual)
2020
(Annual)
Preliminary grade 583,968.00 - 651,480.00(2x16020-7x16140-2x19560- 16x26040) = 1,252,260.00
grade ii 627,156.00 - 699,660.00(6x16140-2x19560-  16x26040) = 1,252,260.00
grade i 771,756.00 - 861,660.00(15x26040) = 1,252,260.00
specialist grade 946,536.00 - 1,056,000.00 (12x32400) =1,444,800.00
(c) Pay applicable to Dental Officers 
                          Year
    Grade
2019
(Annual)
Adjustment 
Allowance
(Annual)
2020
(Annual)
grade ii 569,604.00 - (3x16020-7x16140-2x19560-  16x26040)=1,252,260.00
grade i 771,756.00 - 861,660.00(15x26040) = 1,252,260.00
specialist grade 946,536.00 - 1,056,000.00 (12x32400)=1,444,800.00
(d) Other Allowances applicable to Medical and Dental Officers
(1) Pensionable allowances 
   Preliminary grade - Rs.1,700.00 per month
  grade ii   - Rs.1,700.00 per month 
  grade i   - Rs.3,400.00 per month 
  specialist grade   - Rs.3,400.00 per month
(2) Non Pensionable allowances 
   Preliminary grade - Rs.2,125.00 per month
  grade ii   - Rs.1,700.00 per month 
  grade i   - Rs.   400.00 per month 
 (3) dat  allowances   - Rs.35,000.00 per month
 
 (4) Extra duty payments 
  Preliminary grade - Rs.  616.00 per hour
  grade ii   - Rs.  714.00 per hour
  grade i   - Rs.  986.00 per hour 
  specialist grade   - Rs.1,168.00 per hour

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2814
(5) Language Proficiency Allowance
 Preliminary grade - Rs.1,347.00 per month
 grade ii - Rs.1,356.00 per month
 grade i - Rs.2,096.00 per month
 specialist grade - Rs.2,572.00 per month
 (6) service allowances indicated in paragraph 6 (e) are 
to be calculated separately as applicable.
(e) service allowances : -
 (1) cost of living allowance Rs.7, 800.00 per 
month. 
 (2) incentive allowance of Rs. 250.00 per 
month after five years of service.
 (3) Hard allowance Rs. 620.00 per month.
(Rs.20.00 per day)
 (4)  additional Hard allowance Rs. 4,380.00 
per month for those serving in operational 
areas. 
 (5) special allowance Rs. 3,100.00 per month 
(Rs.100.00 will be paid for per day)
 (6) interim allowance Rs.1,000.00 per month. 
 (7)  uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255.00  
per month.
 
 (8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month 
(if permitted to live out).
 (9)  Ration allowance Rs. 24,005.47 per 
month (Rs.774.37 per day, if permitted to 
live out).
 (10) Qualification pay where applicable (up to 
a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11) Rent allowance for married Officers not 
in occupation of a government married 
quarter. Pilot Officer to Squadron Leader 
and above Rs.1, 600.00 to Rs. 8,500.00 
per month. 
 (12) t elephone bill allowance. Wing commander 
to air Vice Marshal Rs.2,500.00 to                                     
Rs. 5,000.00 per month. 
      
 (13)  three sets of holiday railway warrants per 
year (for officer, spouse and children).
 (14) an additional set of railway warrants or 
the reimbursement of bus fare for officers 
living in Messes to travel from the Mess 
to the hometown once a month.
 
 (15) free issue of uniforms and ancillary 
items.
 (16) free medical facilities (including for 
families if applicable).
 (17) Married Officers permitted to live out are 
entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius.
 (18) service allowance Rs.300.00, Rs.400.00, 
Rs.500.00 as applicable (Payable to 
service Medical and Dental Officers in 
consideration to the number of complete 
years of service)
 (19) additional service allowance Rs.1, 500.00 
per month (applicable to service Medical 
and Dental Officers only)
 (20) 1/20 allowance - con pay x 1/20 x 3 days 
(Maximum) per month (applicable to 
service Medical and Dental Officers only)
 (21) Extra duty Payments 120 hrs (Maximum) 
per month (applicable to service Medical 
and Dental Officers only)
 (22) t elephone bill allowances -
  specialist doctors  Rs. 8,000.00 
     per  month   
other doctors   Rs. 4,000.00 
     per month
7. Pensions/Gratuities: - Payable in terms of the 
air force Pensions & gratuities code 1981 and 
as amended from time to time. All officers are 
contributors to the Widows and orphans Pension 
(armed forces) scheme. Rates of contributions are 
as per Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) 
scheme Regulations 1970.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2815
8.  Instructions to Applicants
(a) applications should be submitted in terms of the 
form specified below. All cages of the application 
should be completed neatly with as much details 
as possible. applications should be addressed 
to "COmmAND RECRuITING OffICER, 
SRI LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE 
TRAINING SChOOL, kOTuGODA" 
so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon 
on  04 th September 2019 under registered 
cover. the envelope enclosing the application 
should be marked   "APPLICATION fOR 
COmmISSION IN ThE ……………… 
bRANCh". applications received after the 
closing date and not in accordance with the 
requirements of this notification and not in 
registered post mail will not be entertained. 
(b) candidates who are in government service /
corporations /Boards/ civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through 
their Heads of department/ corporations/
Boards/civil Establishments and should bear a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be 
released if selected. 
(c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photo copy of the 
following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth with 
a photo copy (Certificate issued for the 
purpose of the education code will not be 
accepted).
(2) National identity card and a photo copy.
(3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational and professional qualifications 
required for the branch applied and a 
photo copy.
(4) Certificates of trade / technical training 
and / or experience (if any) obtained from 
a recognized institution and a photo copy.
(5) Two recent certificates of character 
(within 06 months obtained). one of 
these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has knowledge of 
the applicant for more than two years or 
from the present employer (if employed).
 (6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities 
and a photo copy.
 (7)  A plain folder with file tag.
 (8) A colour photo of 2x2½ inches certified 
by the grama Niladari.
(d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
(f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
9. any statement in the application which is found 
to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to 
disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered before 
the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection.
10. Selection Interview
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfil the above conditions. 
candidates so selected from the Preliminary 
interview will be required to undergo a medical 
test as may be prescribed by the commander 
of the Air Force. The final selection will then 
be made after an interview appointed by the 
Ministry of defence. 
(b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and 
date of such interviews. No travelling or other 
expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he / she is to produce his / her 
National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
(d) candidates likely to be suitable following their 
final interviews will be required to present 
themselves before an air force Medical Board.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2816
(e) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his / her testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
    
 (dLs dias), 
 RsP and three Bars, VsV , usP, Msc (def & strat stu), ndc, psc
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
sri Lanka air force,
P.o. Box 594,
colombo 02.
Official use only
aPPLicatioN foR coMMissioN iN tHE sRi LaNKa REguLaR/
VoLuNtEER aiR foRcE iN tHE…………………………..  BRaNcH 
 1. Nationality:  ........................................................................................................................................................................ 
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
 2. full Name (as per the National identity card):  ................................................................................................................
 3. National identity card Number: ........................................................................................................................................
 4. Branch applied : ................................................................................................................................................................
 5.  Post applied : ......................................................................................................................................................................
 6. Permane nt address : ..........................................................................................................................................................
 7. Nearest Police station to permanent address : ..................................................................................................................
 8. school attended :  .............................................................................................................................................................
 9.  Postal address: ..................................................................................................................................................................
 10. E-mail address: .................................................................................................................................................................
 11. date of Birth: ....................................................................................................................................................................
  (age as at 15th december 2019)  :       years: …..   Months: ………    days:………………
 12. Height :- …………cm    (………..feet ……….inches )
 13. district:  .............................................................................................................................................................................
 14. Electorate: .........................................................................................................................................................................
 15. gN division and Number: ................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2817
 16. telephone Number: ...........................................................................................................................................................
 17. civil status:  .......................................................................................................................................................................
 18. Particulars of School and/or University and Qualifications obtained:-
Name of School Type of examination Year and Index number 
of the  examination
Subjects passed      
(including grading)
ordinary Level
advanced Level 
(To mention whether qualified 
or not to apply for university 
admission)
 yes          No general English
common general test
other/Professional
19. Particulars of Employment since leaving school/university:- (if applicable) 
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
      
20. Particulars of Parents:-
Full Name Father’ s & 
Mother’ s NIC No. Occupation Present addressPast Present
 21. Any special qualification for the post: ..............................................................................................................................
 22. details of current achievements in sports. (give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. 
and standards / levels achieved) : ......................................................................................................................................
 23. other achievements of note at school / university or with outside organizations. (give details with dates / years etc.) 
: .........................................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2818
 24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps or Boy scout organization : ......................  
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
 25. Have you applied earlier to join the sri Lanka air force or any of the armed services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications: .....................................................................................................................................
 26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details : ................................................
    ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
 27. if earlier employed in a government department or in the Public sector / Board / corporation (including the central 
Bank, National Bank, universities, Joint stock companies controlled by the government etc.) reasons for termination 
of employment: .................................................................................................................................................................
 28. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
29.  declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
  i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the sri Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Republic 
of sri Lanka.
  ....................................,
  signature of applicant.
date :.............................
08-1018/2
––––––––––––––––––––
AmENDmENT  Of  CLOSING  DATE  Of  APPLICATIONS  fOR  RECRuITmENT  Of 
REGISTRAR  Of  mARRIAGE,  bIRTh  AND  DEATh  Of  ThE  REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S 
DEPARTmENT TRINCOmALEE  DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar, 
for the division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in Notice No. 03-916 in the Gazette No. 
2116 of 22.03.2019 is extended as 23.09.2019.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
 
n. c. vithanage,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2819
schedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat  Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
trincomalee Muthur Post of Birth, death and Marriage (general) 
Registrar of Koddiyar south division 
district secretary/additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, trincomalee.
08–1096
––––––––––––––––––––
AmENDmENT Of CLOSING DATE Of APPLICATIONS fOR RECRuITmENT Of REGISTRAR 
Of muSLIm mARRIAGE REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT TRINCOmALEE  DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Muslim Marriage, Registrar, for the 
division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in Notice No. 03-914 in the Gazette No. 2116 of 
22.03.2019 is extended as 23.09.2019.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
 n. c. vithanage,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
schedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat  Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
trincomalee Kuchchaveli Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar 
of Kuchchaveli division 
district secretary/additional Registrar 
general, district secretariat, trincomalee.
trincomalee Muthur Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar 
of thoppoor division 
district secretary/additional Registrar 
general, district secretariat, trincomalee.
08–1097
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
amendment 
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITuION AND INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Recruitment of Graduates for the Orientation and Co-ordination Course of the Service of Professions 
Supplementary to medicine
aMENdMENt made to the Notice No. 05-501 the Gazette notification published in the Gazette No. 2124 dated 17.05.2019 
of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka by the secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrituion and indigenous 
Medicine.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2019
2820
the closing date of applications for the below mentioned orientation and co- ordination courses of the service 
of Professions supplementary to Medicine of Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine, is entended up to                  
31.08.2019.
Code
No.
Oriantation and Co-ordination Corse Degree Required
1 Medical Laboratory technologist B.sc (MLs)
2 Pharmacist B.sc.( Pharmacy)
3 Physiotherapist B.sc. (Physiotherapy )
4 Radiographer B.sc.(Radiotheraphy)
B.sc (Radiography)
The Decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine will be final in case of 
a problem arisen regarding a matter not covered by this Gazette notification.
 Wasantha Perera,
  secretary, ,
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
“suwasiripaya”
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawanse thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
05th august, 2019.
08-845
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.