

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
REGULATION OF INSURANCE INDUSTRY
(AMENDMENT)  ACT, No. 3 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 07th February, 2011]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 20.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 11, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Short title.
Amendment of
section 4 of Act,
No. 43 of 2000.
Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.
[Certified on 07th February, 2011]
L.D.—O. 13/2010
 AN  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  REGULATION  OF  INSURANCE  INDUSTRY
A CT , NO . 43 OF  2000
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Regulation of Insurance
Industry (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2011.
2. Section 4 of the Regulation of Insurance Industry
Act, No. 43 of 2000 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended  as follows:—
         (1)  in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal of
paragraph (c) of that subsection and the substitution
therefor of the following paragraph:—
“(c) the Registrar-General of Companies ; ”; and
(2)  in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “of the Schedule to this Act”, and for
the words  “members its of the Board,”, of the words
“of the First Schedule to this Act” and of the words
“members of the Board,”, respectively.
3. Section 5 of the principal enactment  is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the insertion  immediately after paragraph (b) of
that section of the following new paragraph:—
“(bb) register persons as loss adjusters;”; and

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Amendment of
section 6 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 12 of the
principal
enactment.
(2) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (d) of
that section, of the following new paragraph:—
“(dd) enter into any bi-lateral or multi-lateral
memorandum of understanding pertaining to
the sharing of information, with any local or
foreign person;”.
4. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal of
paragraph (b) of that subsection and the substitution therefor
of the following paragraph:—
“(b) all such sums of money as shall be paid as
registration fees under sections 14, 81, 83 and
89C  of this Act;”.
5. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)
thereof, of the following new subsection:—
“(1A). Notwithstanding the provisions contained
in subsection (1), the National Insurance Trust Fund
Board established by the National Insurance Trust
Fund Act, No. 28 of 2006 shall be deemed to be:—
(a) a person registered under this Act to carry on
insurance business in Sri Lanka ; and
(b) an Insurer registered under the provisions of
this Act to carry on insurance business from
the date of coming into operation of this
Act.”;
(2) in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “for long term insurance business or for both
general and long term insurance business.” of the
words “for long term insurance business.”;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Amendment of
section 13 of the
principal
enactment.
(3) in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution for the
words and figures “the Social Security Board
established by the Social Security Board Act, No.
17 of 1996 and the National Insurance Trust Fund
Board established by the National Insurance Trust
Fund Act, No. 28 of 2006.” of the words and figures
“the Social Security Board established by the Social
Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996.”.
6. Section 13 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, as follows:—
(1)  in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “less than the prescribed amount;”, of the
words “less than such amount as determined by the
Board by rules made in that behalf;”; and
(2) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b)
thereof, of the following new paragraph:—
“(bb) has in its Board of Directors persons who are
not subject to any one or more of the
disqualifications specified in the Second
Schedule to this Act;”.
7. Section 14  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, as follows:—
(1) in paragraph (h) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “section 13; and”, of the words “section 13;”;
(2)   in paragraph (i) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “three years.”, of the words “three years; and”;
and
(3) by the addition immediately after paragraph (i)
thereof, of the following new paragraph:—
“(j) such other documents and information as may
be determined by the Board.”.
Amendment of
section 14 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Insertion of new
section 31
A  in
the principal
enactment.
“No person
be appointed
a director of
an insurer or
continue as a
director in
certain
circumstances.
8.  The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 15 of the principal enactment  and
shall have effect as section 15A  of that enactment:—
15A . Every insurer shall be required within
three years of being issued with a licence under
section 15 of this Act, to have itself listed on a
licensed stock exchange.”.
9. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
10. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, as follows:—
(1) in paragraph (g) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “direction given by the Board”, of the words
“direction given or determination made by the
Board ”; and
(2) in paragrph (h) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “in its, application for registration;”, of the
words “in its application for registration or in any
information or document submitted to the Board;”.
11. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
12. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 31 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 31
A  of that enactment:—
31A . A person shall not be appointed,
elected or nominated as a director of an insurer
or continue as a director of an insurer, if such
person is subject to any one or more of the
disqualifications specified in the Second
Schedule to this Act.”.
Repeal of
section 28 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 15
A  in
the principal
enactment.
Repeal of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.
“Insurer to
be listed on a
licensed
stock
exchange.
Amendment of
section 18 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Amendment of
section 32 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
sections 33
A ,
33B , 33C , 33D
and 33E  of the
principal
enactment.
“Conditions
relating to
the
appointment
of directors
of an insurer.
Insurer to
inform Board
of proposed
appointment,
nomination
or election of
directors.
13. Section 32 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)
of that section, of the following new subsection:—
“(1A) The disqualifications specified in the Second
Schedule to this Act, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and
in relation to a person employed as a specified officer
under subsection (1).”.
14. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 33 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 33
A , 33B , 33C , 33D  and 33E of
that enactment:—
33A . (1) A director or an employee of an
insurer shall not be appointed, elected or
nominated as a director of another insurer,
except where such insurer is a subsidiary
company or an associate company of the first
mentioned insurer.
 (2) An employee of an insurer may be
appointed, elected or nominated as a director
of that insurer, subject however to the condition
that the number of employees that may be so
appointed, elected or nominated as directors,
shall not exceed one-third of the total number
of members of the Board of Directors of that
insurer.
33
B . (1) Every insurer shall submit to the
Board along with the Form required to be filed
with the Registrar-General of Companies, a
notice in such form and manner as shall be
determined by the Board, giving information
about each person sought to be appointed,
elected or nominated as a director of the insurer,
prior to the making of such appointment,
election or nomination, as the case may be,
and obtain the Boards approval for the same.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Appointments,
elections or
nominations
of directors
of an insurer
to be
approved by
the Board .
(2) Where the Board receives a notice from
an insurer under  subsection (1) informing it of
a proposed appointment, election or
nomination of a person as a director of such
insurer, the Board shall within thirty days of
receipt of such notice and having regard to the
provisions of section 33
A , and to the
disqualifications specified in the Second
Schedule to this Act,  approve or refuse to
approve  such appointment, election or
nomination, as the case may be, and inform the
insurer of its decision along with its reasons
for reaching such decision.  It shall also be the
duty of the insurer to communicate to the person
concerned, who is sought to be appointed,
elected or nominated, as a director, the decision
of the Board.
(3) Any person aggrieved by a decision
given by the Board under subsection (2), may
submit an appeal against such decision to the
Board which shall be referred by the Board to a
Panel of Review, consisting of three persons
appointed by the Minister, from among persons
who have experience and shown capacity in
the field of insurance, financial management
or law. The Panel of Review shall having
considered the grounds on which the appeal is
being made and any other matters which in its
opinion merits consideration, make a decision
either confirming the refusal or approving the
appointment, election or nomination, as the
case may be, of such person as a director of the
insurer concerned.
 33
C . (1) An insurer shall not appoint, elect
or nominate as a director of such insurer a
person whose appointment, election or
nomination has not been approved by the
Board under section 33
B  of this Act.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Removal of a
director who
is ineligible
to hold office
as a director.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (1), a person whose name has been
submitted to the Board for approval under
subsection (1) of section 33
B , may be appointed,
elected or nominated as a director of the insurer,
pending the receipt of the decision of the
Board. However, where  the Board refuses to
grant approval and the insurer communicates
to the person concerned, the decision of the
Board, such person shall from the date of such
communication, cease to hold office as a
director of the insurer, subject to any decision
the Board may reach upon any objections that
may have been tendered by the person
concerned, under subsection (3) of section 33
B ,
against the decision of the Board refusing to
grant approval.
(3) It shall be the duty of an insurer to inform
the Board forthwith of every appointment,
election or nomination of a director, whose
appointment, election or nomination, as the
case may be, was approved by the Board.
33
D . (1) An insurer shall, immediately
upon becoming aware that a director of such
insurer has become subject to any one or more
of the disqualifications specified in the Second
Schedule to this Act or has become ineligible
to continue to hold office as a director of the
insurer, inform the Board of such fact.
(2) Where the Board receives any
information under subsection (1) about a
director or where the Board becomes aware at
any time that a person appointed, elected or
nominated as a director of an insurer has
thereafter become disqualified under any one
or more of the disqualifications specified in
the Second Schedule to this Act or has
otherwise become ineligible to continue to

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
hold office as a director of an insurer, the Board
shall—
(a) direct the insurer concerned, in writing,
to remove such person from the office
of a director within such period as  may
be specified in such direction;  and
(b) in writing, notify  the person who is to
be removed of the fact of such removal,
with a copy of the direction issued to
the insurer regarding the same annexed
to such notification.
(3) The insurer to whom a direction is issued
under subsection (2)  shall, within the period
specified in the direction—
(a) remove the person from the office of
director;  and
(b) take such steps as are necessary to
inform the shareholders of the insurer
and the Registrar-General of
Companies of such removal.
(4) The removal of a director in accordance
with a direction issued under paragraph (a) of
subsection (2) shall, notwithstanding the
Articles of Association of the insurer, take effect
from the date of receipt by the director of the
notification of removal sent by the insurer.
(5) Any person who is aggrieved by the
removal of such person from the office of a
director under subsection (3) of this section,
may within fourteen days of being notified of
such removal, appeal therefrom to the Court of
Appeal.  The Court of Appeal may on appeal
made under this section, confirm, revise, modify
or set aside the decision against which the

<!-- page 10 -->

9Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Failure to
comply to be
an offence.
Repeal of
section 35 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 37 of the
principal
enactment.
appeal is made and may make such order as the
interests of justice may require.
33E. An insurer who fails to comply with
any direction given under paragraph (a) of
subsection (2) of section 33D  within the period
specified in such direction and a director who
has been served with a notice under paragraph
(b) of that subsection who continues to function
as a director thereafter, shall each be guilty of
an offence under this Act and shall be liable on
conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand rupees and shall in addition be
liable—
(a) in the case of the insurer, to a further fine
of one hundred thousand rupees, for each
day that the insurer continues to commit
such offence after conviction; and
(b) in the case of a director of the insurer,
to a further fine of rupees one hundred
thousand for each day such director
continues to function as director, after
conviction.”.
15. Section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
16. Section 37 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended  by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following subsection:—
“(1) For the purpose of examining whether the interests
of the policy holders are being adequately safeguarded
every insurer shall be required to file with the   Board:—
(a) all policy forms to be issued by such insurer,
prior to its issue;

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Amendment of
section 49 of the
principle
enactment.
Amendment of
section 55 of the
principal
enactment.
(b) any amendments to be made to any policy
forms already issued; and
(c) where required to do so by a notice in writing,
copies of any policy forms already issued.”.
17. Section 47 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “by the Board by rules made in that
behalf.”, of the words “by the Board.”; and
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “required by the rules  made by the
Board in that behalf,” , of the words “required by
the Board,”.
18. Section 48 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,
from all the words from “in accordance with rules” to the
words “as the Board may determine.”, of the words “in such
manner and within such period after the close of the financial
year, as the Board may determine.”.
19. Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (b) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “return containing such information as may be
determined by the Board by rules made in that behalf.” of
the words “return containing such information and during
such periods of time, as may be determined by the Board.”.
20. Section 55 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “the provisions
of section 162 of the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982”, of the
words “the provisions of section 173 of the Companies Act,
No. 7 of  2007,”.
Amendment of
section 47 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 48 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Amendment of
section 60 of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 61 of the
principal
enactment.“Publishing
of returns
submitted to
the Board.
Amendment of
section 56 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 78 of the
principal
enactment.
21. Section 56 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “abstracts as may
be determined by the Board  by rules made in that behalf.”,
of the words “abstracts as may be determined by the Board
and within such period as the Board may determine.”.
22. Section 60 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the proviso to that section, by the substitution
for the words “any particular insurer, unless the insurer has”,
of the words “any particular insurer or broker, unless the
insurer or the broker has”.
23.  Section 61 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor:—
61. An insurer may with the prior written
approval of the Board, publish any return
submitted to the Board under this Act or a true
and accurate abstract of such return, for purpose
of publicity.”.
24. Section 78 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “an individual” and for the words “all
individuals”, of the words “any person” and of the
words “all persons”, respectively ; and
(2) in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “any individual”, of the words “any
person”.
25. Section 80 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of that section, by
the substitution for the words “a policy or policies
of insurance”, of the words “policies of insurance”;
and
Amendment of
section 80 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Amendment of
section 83 of the
principal
enactment.
(2) in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section—
(a) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) of
that paragraph, for the words “specified
officer”, of the words “the principal officer”;
and
(b) in sub-paragraph (ii) of that paragraph, for
the words “an associated or subsidiary
company”, of the words “an associate,
subsidiary or a holding company”.
26. Section 81 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
         (1)   in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c) of that section,
by the substitution for the words “paragraph (d) of
section 80;”, of the words “paragraph (d) of
subsection (1) of section 80;”; and
(2) in paragraph (h) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “a certified copy of the professional
indemnity insurance policy or policies issued”, of
the words “a certified copy each of the professional
indemnity policies of insurance issued”.
27. Section 83 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the substitution for the words “on an application
being made in that behalf to the Board”, of the
words “on an application being made in that behalf
to the Board not more than three months but not
less than two months  prior to the date of expiry of
its registration”;
(2) in paragraph (a) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “a professional indemnity policy of
insurance for the ensuing period”, of the words
Amendment of
section 81 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Amendment of
section 84 of the
principal
enactment.
“a certified copy each of the professional indemnity
policies of insurance for the ensuing period issued
by two or more insurers”; and
(3) in paragraph (d) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “such other documents”, of the words
“such other documents and information ”.
28. Section 84 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section—
(a) by the repeal of paragraph (b) of that
subsection, and the substitution therefor of
the following paragraph:
“(b) the broker has failed to comply with or
acted in contravention of any
directions issued by the Board under
this Act;”;
(b) by the insertion immediately after paragraph
(b) of that subsection, of the following new
paragraph:—
“(bb) the broker has ceased to be of good
financial standing;”;
(c) by the repeal of paragraph (c) of that
subsection, and the substitution therfor of the
following paragraph:—
“(c) (i) a director or the principal officer of
the broker; or
(ii) a director or the chief executive
officer of an associate, a subsidiary

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
 or a holding company of such
broker,
becomes a director, a  shareholder or an
employee of an insurer;
(d) by the insertion immediately after paragraph
(c) of that subsection, of the following new
paragraphs:—
“(cc) the broker becomes a shareholder of any
insurer;
(ccc) the broker has contravened any
provision of this Act or any regulation
or rule made or any condition   imposed
by the  Board, under this Act;”; and
(e) by the repeal of paragraph (e) of that
subsection, and the substitution therefor of
the following paragraph:—
“(e) the broker has furnished false,
misleading or inaccurate information
or has concealed or failed to disclose
material facts in the application for
registration or renewal of registration,
as the case may be, or in any statement
or document submitted to the Board.”;
and
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section, of the following new subsection:—
“(1A)  The provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4),
(5), (6) and (7) of section 18 of this Act shall, mutatis
mutandis , apply to and in relation to the
cancellation or suspension of a registration under
this section.”; and

<!-- page 16 -->

15Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Insertion of new
section 84
A  in
the principal
enactment.
“Board may
direct certain
measures to
be taken in
lieu of acting
under section
84.
Amendment of
section 85 of the
principal
enactment.
(3) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “of this Act shall apply”, of the words
“of this Act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply”.
29. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 84 of the principal enactment  and
shall have effect as section 84
A  of that enactment:—
84A . Notwithstanding the provisions of
section 84, the Board may in lieu of taking
any action under that section on any one or
more  grounds referred to therein, and where
the nature of the act or omission is not of such
gravity as to warrant taking action under that
section,  direct the broker to take such
measures that the Board may consider
appropriate, to—
(a) rectify and set right any consequence
resulting from such act or omission ;
and
(b) comply with the provisions of this Act
or any  regulation or rule made
thereunder  or any  conditions imposed
or any directions given by the Board,
under this Act.”.
30. Section 85 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “two or more registered insurers
approved by the Board”, of the words “two or more
insurers,” ;
(2)  in subsection (2) of that section and in the proviso
to that subsection, by the substitution for the words
“such policy” and for the words “the policy”, of the
words “such policies” and of the words “the
policies” respectively ; and

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
(3) in subsection (3) of that section—
(a)  by the substitution for the words “The policy
obtained” and for the words “in either-” of
the words “The policies obtained” and of the
word “of-”, respectively: and
(b)  by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that
subsection, for the words “by the Board.”, of
the following words “by the Board,whichever
is higher.”
.
31. Section 86 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows: —
(1) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section, and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection:—
“(3) Every broker shall furnish  to the Board,
returns, containing such information and within
such period of time as  may  be determined by the
Board.”; and
(2) by the addition at the end of that section, of the
following new subsection:—
“(6) Every broker shall submit to the Board
annually a certified copy each of the professional
indemnity policies of insurance issued by two or
more insurers as required by section 83 of this
Act.”.
32. Section 88 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “paid by an insurer
to a broker or insurance agent,”, of the words “paid by an
insurer to a broker or an insurance agent or by a broker to an
insurance agent,”.
Amendment of
section 88 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 86 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Insertion of Part
VIII
A  in the
principal
enactment.
Prohibition
against acting
as a loss
adjuster
without a
Certificate of
Registration.
Qualifications
for
registration.
Application
for
registration
and issue of
certificate.
33. The following new Part is hereby inserted
immediately after section 89 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as PART VIIIA of that enactment:—
“PART  VIIIA
R EGISTRATION   OF   LOSS   ADJUSTERS
89A . (1) No person shall act or hold out as
a loss adjuster to any insurer, unless such person
is the holder of a Certificate of Registration as
a loss adjuster, issued by the Board under this
Act.
(2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (1), a person who is not a resident
of Sri Lanka and who has obtained the
necessary legal recognition as a loss adjuster
from the relevant authority in the country
where such person is resident, is permitted to
function as a loss adjuster within Sri Lanka,
provided such function is being carried on with
a person in Sri Lanka who has been duly
registered as a loss adjuster under the provisions
of this Act.
89B . No person shall be eligible to be
registered as a loss adjuster under this Act,
unless such person possesses such
qualifications and experience as may be
determined by the Board by rules made in that
behalf.
89C . (1) An application for registration as
a loss adjuster shall be made to the Board in
such form as shall be provided for that purpose
by the Board and be accompanied by such
documents,  information and fee as shall be
determined by the Board by rules made in that
behalf.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Revocation
of
registration.
(2) On receipt of an application under
subsection (1), the Board shall, having
considered the particulars stated therein and
where it deems necessary having given the
applicant an opportunity of being heard, inform
the applicant by written notice whether the
applicant is eligible to be registered as a loss
adjuster or not. Upon registration of any person
as a loss adjuster, such person shall be issued
with a Certificate of Registration and be subject
to such terms and conditions as shall be
specified in the certificate.
(3) A Certificate of Registration issued by
the Board shall authorize its holder to carry on
such activity as specified therein and a
Certificate issued shall not be transferred to
any other person nor be used for the benefit of
any other person.
(4) Any transfer or use of a Certificate of
Registration by the holder thereof in
contravention of the provisions of subsection
(3), shall be null and void, and the Board shall
have the power to revoke such registration with
immediate effect.
(5) The Board may at any time add to, vary
or revoke any term or condition specified in a
Certificate of Registration issued to a loss
adjuster or add any new terms or conditions
thereto.
89
D . (1) The Board may revoke a
Certificate of Registration issued to a loss
adjuster, where the Board is satisfied that such
loss adjuster —
(a) has acted in contravention of any
provisions of this Part of this Act, or
any rules or regulations made
thereunder;

<!-- page 20 -->

19Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Board to
grant
opportunity
to show
cause before
a rejection.
(b) has acted in breach of any term or
condition specified in the Certificate
of Registration issued by the Board
under this Act;
(c) has made any statement in any
application, account, written
information or document submitted
to the Board by such loss adjuster,
which was later found to be false,
inaccurate or misleading or it is
discovered that the loss adjuster has
concealed or failed to disclose some
material facts that would have affected
the decision of the Board in assessing
his suitability as a loss adjuster; or
(d) has since the grant of the Certificate
of Registration, been found to be
disqualified for the grant of such
registration.
 (2) A loss adjuster who is aggrieved by the
decision of the Board under subsection (1) may
appeal therefrom to the Court of Appeal and
the provisions of section 19 of this Act shall
mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to
such an appeal.
89
E. (1) An application made under this
Act for registration as a loss adjuster shall not
be rejected by the Board without giving notice
in writing to the applicant to show cause within
such period as shall be specified in such notice,
as to why such application should not be
rejected.
 (2) Where any applicant for a registration—
(a) fails to show cause within the time
specified in the notice issued under
subsection (1); or

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
(b) fails to show sufficient cause
acceptable to the Board,
the application made shall be rejected by  the
Board.”.
34. Section 90 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the word “Company”
wherever such word appears in the section, of the word
“person”.
35. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 92 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 92
A  of that enactment:—
   92A . Any person who acts or holds out
as a loss adjuster without being duly registered
under this Act, shall be guilty of an offence
and shall on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less
than fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment
for a term not less than one year or to both such
fine and imprisonment.”.
36. Section 93 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “or any rule made
under this Act;”, of the words “or any regulation, rule or
order made under this Act or any conditions imposed or
determinations made by the Board under this Act,”.
37. Section 94 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “and appoint as its principal officer”,
of the words “and with the approval of the Board,
appoint as its principal officer,”; and
Insertion of a
new section 92A
in the principal
enactment.
“Carrying on
the function
of a loss
adjuster
without
being duly
registered, to
be an
offence.
Amendment of
section 93 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section  94  of
the principal
enactment.
“Amendment of
section 90 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 22 -->

21Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Insertion of a
new section 94
A
in the principal
enactment.
“Board to be
informed of
any alteration
in the
particulars
submitted
with an
application
for
registration.
Insertion of new
section 95
A  in
the principal
enactment.
“Board to
require
increase of
paid-up share
capital.
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section, of the following new subsection:—
“(1A ) The disqualifications specified in the
Second Schedule to this Act, shall mutatis mutandis
apply to and in regard to the disqualifications
applicable to a person employed as a principal
officer under subsection (1).”.
38.   The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 94 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 94
A  of that enactment:—
94A . Where after the registration of any
person as an insurer, broker or loss adjuster, as
the case may be, any alteration or a change is
made in the information or particulars
contained in an application made by that
person under section 14, section 81 or section
89
C  of this Act, it shall be the duty of such
insurer, broker or the loss adjuster, as the case
may be, to forthwith furnish to the Board a full
authenticated statement of such alteration or
change.”.
39. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 95 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 95
A  of that enactment:—
95A . The Board shall have the authority
by rules made in that behalf, to require the paid
up share capital of insurers and brokers to be
increased and it shall be the duty of all insurers
and brokers, as the case may be, to comply
with such requirement.”.
40. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 96 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 96
A  and section 96B  of that
enactment:—
Insertion of new
sections 96
A  and
96B  in the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Amendment of
section 99 of the
principal
enactment.
96 A . The Board may with a view to
safeguarding the interests of policy holders
and potential policy holders, issue directions
to insurers, brokers and loss adjustors, as the
case may be, and it shall be the duty of every
such insurer, broker and loss adjustor, as the
case may be, to comply with any directions so
issued.
96
B . Any determination of the Board
which is not required to be made by rules made
in that behalf and which relates to insurers,
brokers or loss adjustors, as the case may be,
shall immediately upon such determination
being made, be communicated to all such
insurers, brokers and loss adjustors, as the case
may be, to whom such determination relates.”.
41. Section 97 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “served on any
insurer,”, of the words “served on any insurer or broker,”.
42. Section 98 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the substitution for the words “policy of long
term insurance business”,  of the words “policy of
long term insurance business or general insurance
business”; and
(2) in the marginal note to that section, by the
substitution for the words “arising under long term
insurance business”, of the words “arising under
long term or general insurance business”.
43. Section 99 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section ; and
“Board to
give
directions.
Determination
made to be
communicated
forthwith.
Amendment of
section 97 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 98 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 24 -->

23Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Replacement of
section 100 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 102 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 113 of
the principal
enactment.
“Prohibition
against
carrying on
business
other than
those for
which a
licence or
registration is
issued.
(2) in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “means a document inviting” and for
the words “includes any document which contains
information”, of the words “means an invitation
appearing in any media, including by any
electronic means, inviting” and of the words
“includes any information”, respectively.
44. Section 100 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:—
100. No insurer or broker shall without the
prior written approval of the Board, carry on
any insurance business other than, in the case
of an insurer, the specified class or sub-class of
insurance business or in the case of a broker,
the class of insurance business, in respect of
which such insurer or broker has obtained from
the Board under this Act a licence or
registration, as the case may be.”.
45. Section 102 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “in accordance with the guidelines issued” to
the end of that subsection, of the words “in accordance with
the rules pertaining to takeovers and mergers made under
the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 36 of 1987, wherever applicable.”.
46. Section 113 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “he or she shall,”, of the words “such insurer
shall,”.
47.   Section 114 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in the definition of the expression “insurance agent”,
by the substitution for the words “an individual”,
of the words “a person”;
Amendment of
section 114 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
(2) in the definition of the expression “insurer” by the
substitution for the words “company registered” in
that definition of the words “person registered”;
(3) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “licensed commercial bank”, of the
following new definition:—
“licensed stock exchange” means a stock exchange
licensed under the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987;”;
(4) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “local authority security”, of the
following new definition:—
“loss adjuster” means a person who has specialized
knowledge in investigating and who is assessing
losses arising from insurance claims and
registered as a loss adjuster under the provisions
of this Act.
(5) by the repeal of definition of the expression
“Registrar of Companies”,  and the substitution
therefor of the following definition:—
“Registrar-General of Companies” means a person
by name or by office appointed to be or to act as
the Registrar-General of Companies under
section 471 of the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007
and includes any Deputy-Registrar General or
Assistant Registrar-General appointed  under that
section;”; and
(6) in the definition of the expression “Securities
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka” by the
substitution for the words “Securities Exchange
Commission” wherever those words appear in that
definition, of the words “Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka”.

<!-- page 26 -->

25Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Amendment of
the Schedule to
the principal
enactment.
Addition of new
Schedule to the
principal
enactment.
48. The Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the re-numbering of that Schedule as the First
Schedule to that enactment.
49. The following new Schedule is hereby added
immediately after the re-numbered  First Schedule to the
principal enactment and shall have effect as the Second
Schedule to that enactment:—
“SECOND  SCHEDULE [Section 31
A ]
D ISQUALIFICATIONS  FOR  BEING  A  DIRECTOR  OF  AN  INSURER
A person shall not be eligible to be appointed, elected or
nominated as a director of an insurer, if such person:—
(a) does not possess academic or professional
qualifications or have effective experience in
insurance, finance, business or of any other relevant
discipline;
(b) has served as a member or an employee of the Board
at any time during the  period  of three years prior
to being appointed, elected or nominated as a
director of the insurer;
(c) has been convicted by any competent court in Sri
Lanka or of any other country, for a crime committed
in connection with financial management or of any
offence involving moral turpitude;
(d) has been declared an undischarged insolvent or a
bankrupt under any law of Sri Lanka or of any other
country;
(e) has failed to satisfy any judgment or order given by
any competent court in Sri Lanka or of any other
country, pertaining to the repayment of a  debt;
(f) has been declared by a competent court in Sri Lanka
or of any other country, to be of unsound mind;

<!-- page 27 -->

26 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
(g) has been removed or suspended by an order of a
regulatory or supervisory authority from serving as
a director, chief executive officer or any other
position of authority in any insurance company,
broker, bank,  financial institution or corporate
body, within or outside  Sri Lanka; or
(h) has been a director, chief executive officer,
principal officer, specified officer or held any other
position of authority in any insurance company,
broker, bank,  financial institution or corporate
body—
(i) whose licence or other authority granted for
operating as an insurance company or broker
or bank or financial institution, has been
suspended or cancelled ; or
(ii)which has been wound up or is being wound
up, or which is being compulsorily
liquidated.
within or outside Sri Lanka.”.
50. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
51. Where on the date of the coming into operation of
this Act, a director or the chief executive officer of a holding
company of any broker registered under section 82 of the
principal enactment, is a director, shareholder or an employee
of an insurer, then, notwithstanding the amendment made to
section 84 of the principal enactment by section 28 of this
Act, the registration of such broker shall not be suspended
or cancelled nor a renewal of such registration be refused,
without the director or the chief executive officer concerned
being granted by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka, a
reasonable period of time within which to dispose of the
shares being held or relinquishing such directorship or
employment, as the case may be.
Registered
brokers having a
director or the
chief executive
officer of a
holding
company of
such broker as a
director,
shareholder or
an employee of
an insurer.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 28 -->

27Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
52. (1)  Every insurer who on the date of the coming
into operation of this Act holds a valid licence issued under
section 15 of the principal enactment, shall be required within
five years from the date of the coming into operation of this
Act, to have itself listed on a stock exchange licensed under
the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 36 of 1987 after having where so required to fulfill the
segregation requirements specified in section 53 of this Act.
(2) It shall be the duty of an insurer upon obtaining a
listing on a stock exchange as required by subsection (1) of
this section, to forthwith inform the Insurance Board of Sri
Lanka of such fact by a written communication.
(3) A failure by an insurer to comply with the requirements
imposed by this section may, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained in any provisions of the principal
enactment, be a ground for the suspension or cancellation of
the licence issued to such insurer.
53. Where on the date of the coming into operation of
this Act, an insurer is engaged in carrying on both long term
insurance business and general insurance business in terms
of a valid licence issued by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka
under the principal enactment, such insurer shall be required
within four years from the date of the coming into operation
of this Act, to segregate the long term insurance business
and the general insurance business being carried on by it,
into two seperate companies.
Insurers holding
a licence to be
listed on a
licensed stock
exchange.
Insurers to
segregate their
long term and
general
insurance
business.

<!-- page 29 -->

28 Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)
Act, No. 3 of 2011
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO .  163,  KIRULAPONA   MAWATHA ,  POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before
  15th December each year in respect of the year following.