

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1479
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1472
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"975 – 2016 cQ,s ui 08 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'07'08
No. 1,975 –  fRiday ,  July 08, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th July, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th  July, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1469
Note.— Janakaraliya cultural foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 13, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1470
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General
 :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5
 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5
 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5
 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5
 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5
 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1471
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) 
 When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1472
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths
 
KaNdy  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 08th of august, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
16th June, 2016.
The schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Minipe Post of Registrar of Marriages  d istrict Secretary/additional
   (Kandyan/General) in ududumbara  Registrar General, district   
   and Births and deaths of Kandapahala   Secretariat, Kandy. 
   North division
07–397
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths
PuttalaM  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1473
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 08th of august, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
17th June, 2016.
The schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam d ankotuwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) d istrict Secretary/additional
   in Pitigal Korale South division and  Registrar General, district   
   Births and deaths of othara Palatha   Secretariat, Puttalam. 
   South division  
07–276
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths
 
tRiNcoMalEE  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1474
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 01st of august, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
10th June, 2016.
The schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
trincomalee Morawewa Post of Registrar of Births and deaths d istrict Secretary/additional
    of Morawewa North division and  Registrar General, district   
   Marriages (Kandyan and General) of   Secretariat, trincomalee
   Kattukulam Pattu West division
07–286
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths
 
KalutaRa  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1475
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 08th of august, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
22nd June, 2016.
The schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Registrar of Marriages  d istrict Secretary/additional
    (General) in Kalutara and Panadura  Registrar General, district   
   t otamuna division and Births and   Secretariat, Kalutara
   deaths of Moragalla division
07–444
––––––––––––––––
PubLIC  SERVICE  COmmISSION
ministry of  megapolis and Western Development
oPEN REcRuitMENt to thE PoSt of lEGal 
officER (GRadE iii of ExEcutiVE SERVicE 
catEGoRy)
aPPlicatioNS are called on the order of the Public 
Service Commission to fill 01 vacancy in the Post of Legal 
Officer, Grade III of Executive Officers Category, of the 
Ministry of Megapolis and Western 
development from 
those who satisfy qualifications. Applications prepared in 
line with the specimen application given at the end of this 
notification, should be sent on or before the date mentioned 
below to reach 
“Secretary, Ministry of Megapolis 
and Western development, 17th floor, Suhurupaya, 
Battaramulla”, by Registered Post. the words “open 
Recruitment to the Post of Legal Officer of the Ministry 
of Megapolis and Western development-2016” should be 
clearly indicated on the top left corner of the envelope. the 
name of the examination should be indicated in English 
language in Sinhala and 
tamil applications in addition to 
Sinhala and tamil languages.
(a) closing date of the application is 29.07.2016.
Note: No complaint that an application has been lost 
or delayed in post shall be considered. the loss 
which may occur by delaying the applications till 
the last date, should be borne by the applicants 
themselves.
Number of Posts -01
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment shall be made 
from the applicants who have satisfied the qualifications 
furnished in the notification, on the results of a structured 
interview held by a board of interview appointed by the 
Public Service 
commission. the structured interview shall 
be held on the marking scheme (mentioned under No. 06) 
approved by the Public Service 
commission.
02. Required Qualifications :-
 (i) Educational/Professional qualifications :-
  Shall have obtained a degree in law from a 
university recognized by the Public Service 
commission/shall have taken oaths at the 
Supreme court as an attorney-at-law.
 (ii)  experience:-
  Shall have obtained an active professional 
experience of three (03) years after taking oaths 
at the Supreme 
court as an attorney-at-law.
 (iii)  Physical Fitness:-
  Every candidate should have the physical and 
mental capacity required to perform the duties 
of the post in any part of the 
island.
 (iv) Other qualifications:-
 * Shall be citizen of Sri lanka.
 * a pplicants shall be of excellent moral 
character

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1476
 * Shall have satisfied all the qualifications required for the recruitment in each and every way as at the 
closing date of the application.
03. conditions of Engaging in Service and Service conditions:-
 (i) t his post is permanent and pensionable. contribution shall be made to Widowers'/ Widows' and 
orphans' Pension.
 (ii) t he appointment is subjected to a probation period of 03 years. Within 3 years from the date of 
recruitment to Grade III of Legal Officer, the 1 st Efficiency Bar mentioned in the recruitment 
Procedure shall be passed.
 (iii) a s per Public administration circular No. 01/2014 and other consequent circulars.
  Officer shall obtain the proficiency in other official language within 05 years from the date of joining 
the post and officers who have joined the service in a language other than an official language shall 
obtain the proficiency in prescribed official language.
 (iv) Selected applicants are subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, 
Establishments code, financial Regulations, department orders and Rules and the other Rules and 
Regulations issued by the Government from time to time.
04. Age Limit.– the applicants shall be not less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing 
date of the application.
05. Salary Scale.– this post is entitled to a monthly salary scale of Rs.47,615-10x1335-8x1630-17x2170-Rs.110, 
895/= (Sl-i-2016 of Public administration circular No. 03/2016).
06. following marking scheme shall be followed at the structured interview.
 Subject Maximum marks
 01. A dditional educational qualifications:  20
   i .  l.l.B. degree awarded by a university recognized by the university
    Grants commission  
    f or a first class  20 
    f or Second class upper division 15 
    f or a Second class 10 
   II.  For a First Class at the final year examination of the Law College 15 
   III.  For a Second Class at the final year examination of the Law College  
     (Marks shall be allocated only for the highest qualification out of the
    degree or the final year examination of the Law College)10 marks  
 
 02. Additional professional qualification:  15
  For a Post Graduate Diploma of not less than a year on the relevant filed or 
  Post Graduate diploma in law offered by a recognized institution 
  (05 marks for each diploma) 
  For a Diploma course of not less than 06 months on the relevant filed offered by 
  a recognized institution.(03 marks for each diploma)
  For a Certificate course of not less than 03 months on the relevant field offered by a
  recognized institution (02 marks for each course)
  
 
03.  additional Experience:  30
   i . Experience as attorney-at-law in Public Service or private sector  
 
   (the experience gained as an attorney-at-law in addition to the 
    experience of 03 years, which is the basic qualification indicated in the 
    notification of calling for applications, shall be considered here)
    (05 marks per year)     

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1477
  (Additional experience shall be proved by a certificate obtained from a Judge or 
  President's counsel or an attorney-at-law who has completed a service period of 
  not less than 20 years.  
 04. Knowledge on computer technology  15
  Shall have offered information technology as a main subject for a degree obtained
  from an institution recognized by the university Grants commission. 15  
 
  f or a diploma course of not less than 01 year technology of an 
  institution recognized by the Government or not less than 1500 hours 10
  
 
 For a Certificate course on Information Technology of an institution 
  recognized by the Government  
  06 months/720 hours 07 
  03 months/360 hours 05 
 05. Language Proficiency  15
  d egree in English medium/ Post Graduate degree/llB degree/Post   
  Graduate course in law. 15 
  (all the relevant question papers shall have been answered in English medium)
    
  f or a diploma course in English language of a university recognized 
  by the university Grants commission or an institution recognized by  10 
  the Government(01 year or 1500 hours)
  
 
 For a certificate course in English language of a University recognized by the
  u niversity Grants commission or an institution recognized by the Government.  
  06 months/720 hours 07 
  03 months/360 hours 05 
 06. Skills proved at the interview  05
 
 
       Total marks:  100
07. Identity of the Candidates.– only the applicants, who have submitted applications perfected in each and 
every way, shall be called for the interview. Certified copies of all certificates and the copies prepared properly should be 
submitted at the interview.
any of the following documents shall be accepted to prove the identity.
 (i) National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons
 (ii) Valid Passport.
08. Submission of applications:
 (a)  applications should be sent on or before 05.07.2016 to reach the following address. applications 
received after the closing date shall be rejected.
  Secretary,
  Ministry of Megapolis and Western development
  17th floor, Suhurupaya,Battaramulla
 (b)  Specimen of the application that should be submitted is indicated at the end of this notification. 
Applicants shall prepare their applications on A4 paper with No.01 to 08 appear on the first page and 
No. 09 to 14 on page 02 and No. 15 to 15.2 on page 03. further, applications shall be perfected by 
themselves.
 (c)  "application for the Post of Legal Officer" shall be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelop 
enclosing the application.
 Subject Maximum marks

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1478
 (d)  c andidate's signature in the application form shall 
have been attested by a Principal of a Government 
School/ Justice of Peace/ commissioner of oaths/ 
attorney–at-law/ Notary Public/ commissioned 
Officer in the Armed Forces or an Officer holding a 
permanent post in public service who is receiving 
a monthly combined salary of Rs.27,871.
 (e)  The officers who are serving in the public service 
or provincial public service at present shall 
submit their applications through the respective 
head of the department.
 (f)  applications that do not comply with the 
specimen application form shall be rejected.        
No. compliant that an application has been lost 
or delayed shall be accepted.
09. Furnishing false information.– 
if the information 
furnished by you in the application is found to be false 
or incorrect before recruitment, your candidature shall be 
cancelled. 
if such false or incorrect information is revealed 
after the recruitment action shall be taken dismiss from 
service subjected to relevant measures. Public Service 
commission shall reserve the right to fill or not fill the 
vacancies.
on the order of Public Service commission,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Megapolis and 
 Western development.
 
specimen applicaTion
recruiTmenT To The posT of legal officer which is 
fallen v acanT aT The minisTry of megapolis and wesTern 
developmenT
 
(For office use only)
 
01. Name with initials: (Mr/Mrs/Miss) :––––––––––.
 in Sinhala/ tamil :––––––––––.
 English (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
 01.01 Names denoted by initials (in clear hand writing):
 in Sinhala/ tamil :––––––––––.
 English (in block capitals) :––––––––––. 
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 
03. date of Birth :   
 year :––––––––. Month :––––––––. date :––––––––. 
 01.01. age as the closing date: 
 
years :––––––––. Months :–––––––. days :––––––––.
 
04. Sex (Male-M, female-f) :  
05.  Marital Status :––––––––––.
06. Permanent address (in clear hand writing) :
  (i)  i n Sinhala/tamil :––––––––––.
  (ii)  English (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
 
07. telephone Number:- 
 fixed :––––––––––.
 Mobile:––––––––––.
 
08. The highest qualification acquired for English language 
:––––––––––.
 
09. details on the degree obtained-
  (i)  u niversity :––––––––––.
  (ii)  Effective year of the degree :––––––––––.
  (iii)  d egree obtained :––––––––––.
  (iv)  l anguage medium :––––––––––.
 
10. date on which you have given oaths as an attorney-at-
law : ––––––––––.
 
11. Period of service as an attorney-at-law at the Supreme 
court :––––––––––.
 
12. have you ever been changed by a court for any offence? 
yes/No 
 
12.01. if yes, indicate the details :––––––––––.
 
13. Certification of the applicant :
i ……………………………., declare that all the 
particulars furnished by me in this application are true 
and accurate. 
i certify that i have not been dismissed from 
public service or sent on retirement as an alternative on 
sympathetic grounds or 
i have not been treated as having 
vacated the post. i am aware that if any particular contained 
herein is found to be false i am liable to disqualification 
before selection and dismissal from service without any 
compensation if the inaccuracy is detected after selection.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.
14. attestation of the applicant's Signature:
i hereby certify that …………………………….. who 
submits this application is know to me personally and that 
he/she placed his/her signature under Para. 13 above in my 
presence on ………....
    ––––––––––––,
    Signature of the attester.
date :––––––––––.
Name of the attester :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Place the Official Stamp)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1479
15. Recommendation of the head of department: ( only 
for the applicants who are serving in Public /Provincial 
Public Service) :
15.1. Work, conduct and attendance of the officer, 
during the five years immediately preceding 
the closing date of applications, are satisfactory 
according to the personal file. All the salary 
increments have been earned.
15.2
 This officer can be released/cannot be released 
from the present post, if he/ she is selected for 
the post applied. 
i hereby recommend/ do not 
recommend the application. a disciplinary 
inquiring has been/ has not been conducted 
against the officer. The officer has been/ has not 
been subjected to any disciplinary inquiry.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamps of 
 the head of the department.
date :––––––––––.
07–486
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of  DISASTER  mANAGEmENT
Open Competitive Examination to recruit persons to posts of meteorology Observer /Communicator 
(Training Grade) of the Sri Lanka Technological Service of the Department of meteorology-2016
1.0 aPPlicatioNS are invited from qualified citizens of the Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination to recruit 
persons to the training grade of vacant posts in the Sri lanka technological Service of the department of Meteorology.
 1.1 d esignation :Meteorology observer  / communicator
 1.2 Nature of duty of the Post
  * collecting meteorological data.
  * Maintaining meteorology equipment.
  * Providing meteorological data to outside institutions.
  * including meteorological data in the web page.
  * Being vigilant about special meteorological data and reporting them.
  * other duties assigned by the head of department.
2.0 Number of recruits and the data of recruitment will be decided by the appointing authority. appointing 
authority reserves the right not to fill all or a certain number of vacancies.
3.0 Salary :
    t able : No. 01
 Grade Salary Scale Starting monthly salary
 training Grade None 1st year Rs.15,924 per month 2nd year    
   Rs.16,100 per month (in terms of the 
   Provisions of the Schedule (V) of  
   P.a.c. 03/2016)
 Grade  iii Monthly Rs.31,040-10 x 445 -11x660-10x730- Rs.18,212 /-
  10x 750 –Rs.57,550 (MN 3- 2016) (in terms of the provisions of Shedule (ii) of  
   P.a.c. 03/2016 )
 Grade ii Monthly Rs.31,040 -10x 445 -11x660-10x730 - Rs.21,218 /-
  10 x 750-Rs.57,550 (Starting at Salary step 12) (in terms of the provisions of Shedule (ii) of 
  (MN 3-2016) P.a.c. 03/2016 )
 Grade i Monthly Rs.31,040 -10x 445 -11x660-10x730 - Rs.25,532 /-
  10x 750-Rs.57,550 (Starting at Salary step 23) (in terms of the provisions of Shedule    
  (MN 3-2016) (ii) of P.a.c. 03/2016 )
 Special Grade Monthly Rs.41,580 -11x 755- 18x1,030 –  Rs.24,340 /- 
  Rs.68,425 (MN 7-2016 ) (in terms of the provisions of Shedule (ii) of  
   P.a.c. 03/2016 )

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1480
4.0 Service Conditions of the Post :
 4.1  the candidates who are recruited to the 
training Grade will be recruited to the post 
of Meteorology observer / communicator of 
Grade iii of Sri lanka technological service 
upon passing the aptitude test they have to face 
after the two year period of training.
 4.2 t he post of Meteorology observer / 
commiunicator of Grade iii of Sri lanka 
technological service is permanent and 
pensionable. this appointment is subject to a 
probation period of 3 years and the selected 
candidates  should  be prepared to serve in 
any part of the 
island. Selected candidate 
should serve  under the general conditions 
pertaining to recruitment to public service 
as specified at the beginning of the Gazette 
Notification, Sri 
lanka technological service 
minute and amendments made to it from time 
to time, procedural rules of the Public Service 
commissions,Establishments code, finance 
regulations and other orders and regulations 
issued and to be issued by the government on 
public service.
 4.3 Any officer who is recruited through a medium 
which is not  an official language should 
pass the language proficiency test during 
the probation period.
failure to pass the test 
will result in the next salary increment being 
deferred.
 4.4 The Officers should reach the language 
proficiency level relevant to their posts as 
specified in public Administration Circular 
1/2014 within 05 years of being made 
permanent on the post.
 4.5 The officers should achieve G.C.E. (Ordinary 
Level) level proficiency of English, the link 
language, before the expiration of 05 years in 
Grade 
iii.
 4.6 Selected candidates should enter into an 
agreement with the department to the effect 
that he/she will complete the two years training 
in full and serve in the department  for  five 
years  after the two years training and also sign 
a bond with the attestation of two guarantors 
acceptable to the department stating that 
a valid sum of Rs.250,000 will be paid to 
the government of the 
democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka if he /she vacates the 
training after  the date of commencenment 
of training or fails to serve in the department 
during the period specified in the agreement.
 4.7 Duty hours will not always be normal office 
hours and the officers will be required to work 
both day and night,Saturday and Sunday as 
well as on public holidays.
they will also be 
required to work on roster basis.
 4.8 Selected candidates should serve in any  part 
of the island.
5.0  Qualifications :
 5.1 Basic qualifications.
 5.2 (a) Should be a citizen of Sri lanka,
  (b) Should be of excellent moral character,
  (c) No Person who is cler gy in any sect of a 
religion is eligible to sit this examination,
  (d) Minimum age at the closing date of  
application should be 18 years and the 
maximum 30 years.
  (accordingly, only those who were born on 
or before 08.08.1998 and after 08.08.1986 are 
eligible to apply for this .) 
 5.3 Educational Qualifications: 
 (a) Should have passed the G. c.E. (ordinary 
level) Examination in six (06) subjects 
with credit passes for Sinhala / tamil /
English, Science, Mathematics and one 
more subject at one sitting.
 (b) Should have passed the G. c.E.(advanced 
level) Examination in 3 subjects at once.
 Subject combination should be as follows:
 (1)  Physics, Pure Mathem atics , and applied 
Mathematics
 (2) With Physics
 (i) Either Pure Mathematics/ applied /
combined Mathematics
 (ii) chemistry /or agriculture /information 
technology /computer Science
 5.4 Physical Qualifications :
  Each candidate should be of sound physical 
and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri 
lanka and discharge the duties of the post.
If found unfit at the medical examinations 
conducted after recruirment, he /she will be 
considered unsuitable for the post.
Note : 
it is compulsory for each candidate to 
have completed the qualifications relevant 
to the post on or before the closing date of 
applications.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1481
6.0  examination Procedure.– Examination is a written 
test comprising of two subjects. this examination will be 
conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English and candidates 
will not be allowed to change the medium later.
   Total Percentage of Time
   Marks marks  
    required to 
    Pass
 
  (i) i ntelligence 100 40% 1 hours
     Quotient
   (iQ) test
  (ii) t echnical 100 40% 2 hours
    paper related
   to the subject
   
7.0  Syllabus :
 1. i Q test
  t his paper which consists of 50 questions of 
multiple choice and short answer type seeks to 
judge the logical thinking, analytical skills and 
the rationality of the candidate. 
all questions 
should to be answered.
 2. t echnical paper related to the subject.
  t his paper consists of questions of physics 
up to G.c.E. (advanced level) and questions 
that check the knowledge of mechanics, units 
and measures,qualities of matters, shocks and 
waves, 
heat and Electricity. all questions 
should be answered.
8.0  Selection Procedure :
 8.1 o ut of the candidates who have scored the 
highest marks at the written test, the number of 
candidates commensurate with the number of 
vacancies to be filled, will be recruited on the 
basis of merit of results.
  (Those candidates who fail to confirm basic 
qualifications at the interview will not be 
recruited despite   having  reached the required 
level of achivement.)
9.0 
 Recruitment.– candidates who are selected to the 
training Grade will be appointed to Grade iii of Sri lanka 
technological Service upon passing the test conducted at 
the conclusion of the two year training.
10.0  Preparation of applications :
 10.1 a pplications should be prepared in the medium 
one wishes to sit the test.
 10.2 t he name of the examination in the applications 
forwared in Sinhala and tamil, should be 
mentioned in English as well.
 10.3 a pplications should be prepared by making 
use of both sides of 21 x 29 cm ( a4 ) Paper 
as the model application form given at the end 
of this notification. The application should be 
prepared in such a way that head numbers 1- 4 
(a) appear in page 1, numbers 05.0 - 09.3 appear 
in page 2, numbers 10.0 -15 appear in page 3 and 
numbers 16.0 – 17.3 appear in page 4.
11.0 
 Filling the Applications:
 11.1 Application should be filled with the 
handwritting of the candidate.
 11.2 Applications should be filled accurately as no 
permission will be given to change the medium 
later.
 11.3 No Permission will be given to change the 
examination center later. however, when 
there is not a sufficient  number of candidates 
at a particular center, such centre will be 
cancelled and the candidates will be reffered 
to the closest other centre. 
further, when a 
sufficient number of candidates from all or 
most of the cities where examinations centres  
are proposed to be set up, have not applied ,the 
commissioner General of Examinations will 
make arrangements for the examination to be 
conducted only in 
colombo.
 11.4 Examination fees should be paid and the 
receipt  pasted at the relevant place.
 11.5 c andidate's signature should have been 
certified in the application and in the asmission 
card. 
a candidate applying through an 
institution should have his signature certified 
by the Head of the institution or an officer 
authorized by him and other candidates should 
have their singnatures certified by a Principal 
of a Government School, the Grama Niladhari 
of the 
division, a Justice of the Peace, a 
commissioner of oaths, an attorney at – law, 
Public Notary, a Commissioned Officer of 
the 
three forces or a permanent Staff Grade 
Officer of the Public or Provincial Public 
Service drawing a consolidated annual salary 
of Rs.240,360/- or more.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1482
 11.6 Provision of false information.
  if  it is found that a candidate does not 
possess qualification to sit this examination 
or discovered that a certain  fact has  been 
furnished knowingly that it is   false or an 
important fact has been deliberately concealed 
his / her candidature will be cancelled while 
or after the examination and if such a thing 
is found after being recruited he / she will be 
dismissed.
12.0
  forwarding applications :
 12.1 completed applications should be sent to the 
following addresss on or before 08.08.2016.
 12.2 forwarding applications :
  commissioner General of Examinations,
  department of Examinations
  P.o.Box 1503
  c olombo.
 12.3 candidates who are already in the public 
sevice should send their applications through 
the respective head of department and the 
candidates who are employed in public  
corporations, local governmen t bodies etc.
should send their applications through their 
respective heads of institutions before the due 
date.
 12.4 on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
''Recruitment to posts in the technological 
Service – dapartment of Meteorology '' should 
be clearly stated.
 
 
12.5 it  would be useful to keep the photocopies of 
the completed application form and the receipt 
of payment of fees.
13.0 
 accepting aplication forms and issuing of 
admission cards.
 13.1 Applications, which do not confirm to the 
proper format, for which examination fees have 
not been paid on time and which have not been 
properly completed will be rejected without 
notice. 
candidates have to bear the loss of not 
completing the applications properly. it would 
be useful to keep a photocopy of the application 
form. 
the candidate should ensure that the 
completed application form conform to the 
format given in the examination notification. 
application which do not conform to the given 
format may get rejected.
 13.2 Receipt of applications will not be notified. No 
complaint in regard to applications being lost 
through mail will be entertained.
 13.3 commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to candidates 
who 
are within the age limit specified in this 
notification and have paid the examination fees 
on or before the closing date of applications 
and sent the applications with the receipt of 
such payment attached to the duly completed 
application forms.
issuing an admission card to 
sit this competitive  examination will not be 
considered as an acceptance that the candidate 
has qualified to sit the examination  to take 
up the post. 
if, at the interview conducted 
to check whether the candidate has the 
required qualifications in terms of the Gazette 
Notification, it is found that he / she does not 
possess the qualifications his/ her candidature 
will be cancelled.
 13.4 immediately after the admission cards have 
been  issued, the department  of Examinations 
of Sri lanka will publish notice in newspapers 
to that effect. if a  candidate has not received  
the admission card after 2 or 3 days  of the said 
notice,it should be notified to the Department 
of Examinations as mentioned in the notice.
it is  prudent to inquire the department of 
Examinations with the photocopies of the 
application form, receipt of the payment 
of Examination fees and the receipt of the 
registration of the application along-with your 
full name, address, National 
identity card 
Number and the name of the examination 
written clearly. 
if you are a candidate living 
away from colombo, you can send a fax to 
the department of Examinations with all the 
above information and your fax Number to 
obtain a copy of your admission card to sit the 
examination.
14.0  examination Fees : 
 14.1 Examination fees  is Rs. 750 this fees must be 
paid 
in cash at any post office/ sub post office 
in the island to be  credited to the government 
revenue through the revenue head 20 03.02.13 
of the commissioner general of examinations 
and the receipt received in  the name of the 
candidate should be pasted in the relevant 
place of the application form. No money 
orders  or stamps are accepted for examination 
fees. 
the examination fees paid will under no 
circumstance be refunded or exchanged for 
any other examination. 
it would be useful to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1483
15.0  Sitting the examination :
 15.1 Before the candidates sit the examination they 
have to get their signatures certified. At the 
examination centre, the admission card with 
the signature certified should be produced to 
the supervisor as you will not be allowed to 
sit the examination with that done.
further 
a candidate should sit the  examination at a 
centre assigned to him.
 15.2 c andidates are subject to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of  Examinations in regard to 
conducting the examination. 
if a candidate 
violates those  rules and regulations he/ she 
will be liable to a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner general of Examinations.
 15.3 examination results :
  a ccording to chapter 6.0 of the Gazette 
Notification, the results sheet of the candidates 
who  sat the examination and got qualified 
will be forwaded to the 
director General 
of Meteorology. Results of  all candidates 
who sat the examination will be sent to them 
personally or published in the website www.
results.exams.gov.lk
16.0
  Identity of the candidates.– at the examination 
centre, the candidate should prove his / her identity in  a 
manner that the  supervisor is satisfied, at every subject the 
candidate appears for.
the following documents will be accepted to prove 
one's identity.
 (1) Valid National identity card issued by the 
department  of Registration of Persons.
 (2) Valid passport 
17.0  i f there is any matter that is not described in this 
notification,the Director General of Meteorology will 
decide on that.
all candidates are bound to follow  the  
general rules and regulations specified in this Gazette 
Notification.
18.0  if any mismatch or inconsistency occurs in Sinhala 
tamil or English versions of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala version will prevail.
     
 laliTh chandrapala,
  direrctor General of Meteorology,
  department of Meteorology.
deparment of Meteorology,
Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
colombo 07,
08th July, 2016.
Schedule 01
 
Examination Centres and Centre Numbers
 Number Centre Centre Number
 01 c olombo 01
 02 Kandy 02
 03 Galle 03
 04 Kurunegala 04
 05 a nuradapura 05
 06 Rathnapura 06
 07 Badulla 07
 08 Jafna 08
 09 Vavuniya 09
 10 Batticaloa 10
 
SPEciMEN  aPPlicatioN
open compeTiTive examinaTion for recruiTmenT To The posT of meTeorological observers/communicaTors 
(To The Training grade ) of The srl lanka Technological service of The deparTmenT of meTeorology -2016
 * Medium of Examination Sinhala - 2   
  (Please  state the relevant number in the box) tamil - 3
  English - 4
 * Examination centre and  centre Number
  
 
Preference e xamination Centre e xamination Centre
   Number
  1
  2
  3 
 
 (Please refer to schedule  1 of the Gazette Notification and state the town and the  
  relevant examination centre numbers in the order of your preference)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1484
01. (a) Name in full (in Block letters) :–––––––––––.
  (example : hERath MudiyaNSElaGE SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 
  (b) Last Name with Initials : (In block letters with last name first) :–––––––––––.
  (example : GuNaWaRdhaNa,h.M.S.K)
 (c) Name in full (in Sinhala /tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. National identity card Number :
03. Sex : Male      - 0 (Please state the relevant number in the box)
   female  - 1
04. Permanent address:
 (a) i n Sinhala :–––––––––––.
 (b) i n English :–––––––––––.
  (in Block letters)
  (application will be posted to this address)
 (d) d istrict of permanent residence :–––––––––––.
 (e) d ivisional Secretariat division :–––––––––––.
 (f) t elephone Number : fixed :–––––––––––. Mobile :–––––––––––.
05. (a) date of Birth : year : Month : date :
 
 (b) a ge as at 2016.08.08 : y ears : Months : days :
06. c ivil Status : Married -  1
   Single    -  2 (Please state the relevant number in the box )
07. Ethnicity :
 Sinhala -1 , tamil – 2, other – 3 (Please state the relevant number in the box )
08. Education Qualifications :
 (a) G.c.E (ordinary level ) Examination
 
 first attempt Second attempt
  y ear :–––––––––––.  year :–––––––––––.
  i ndex Number :–––––––––––. index Number :–––––––––––.
 Serial Subject Pass Serial Subject Pass
 No.   No.
 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1485
 (b) G.c.E (advanced level ) Examination :
  y ear :–––––––––––.  index Number :–––––––––––.
 Serial  Subject Pass
 No.
09. Professional Qualifications / Technical qualifications :
 9.1 d egree /diploma :–––––––––––.
 9.2 i nstitution which awarded the degree / diploma :–––––––––––.
 9.3 Effective date of the Degree / Diploma certificate :–––––––––––.
10. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
11. h ave you ever been found guilty of an offense at a court of law or is there any on-going judicial procedure against 
you ? yes/No :–––––––––––.
 11.1  if yes, Please state details :–––––––––––.
 
12. i f the applicant is already employed in Public Service or Provincial Public Service, the designation and the name and 
address of the department in which he/ she is currently employed :–––––––––––.
 Name and address :–––––––––––.
13. i f the applicant has resigned from Public/Provincial Public Service, reason for such resignation :–––––––––––.
14. Payment of examination fees :
 14.1 Name of the post office / sub post office to which examination fee was paid :–––––––––––.
 14.2 Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
 14.3 d ate of  Payment :–––––––––––.
Please paste the payment receipt here.
Please keep a photocopy of the receipt with you.
15. a ttestation of the applicant :
 (a) i  declare that information furnished by me in this application is true and accurate.
 (b) i  understand that in the event the statement made by me is proven false,i shall become ineligible to be recruited 
to this position and that my employment shall be terminated if it is proven so after recruitment.
 (c) Receipt for the payment of Rs. ...................... as examination fee has been attached as specified.
 (d) i  declare that i am bound by the rules and regulations that may be imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations regarding the holding of the examination and the issuing of results.
 (e) i  will not change any information mentioned here by me.
         
 ––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'08
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2016
1486
16. Certification of the signature of the applicant :
i certify that ........................... the applicant is personally known to me and that his/ her signature was placed 
under para.15 of the above document on ..................... before me. i further certify that the examination fee has been paid 
and the relevant receipt has been attached.
  –––––––––––––––, 
  Signature of the certifier.
date :–––––––––––. 
Name of the certifier :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Must be affirmed with the official stamp)
17. Recommendation of the head of department : ( applicable only to applicants employed in the public /provincial 
public service) :
 17.1  i certify that Mr. /Mrs./Miss ............................ whose details are mentioned above, is employed at 
............................ in the capacity of ............................ with effect from ............................
 17.2  As per the personal file of the aforesaid officer,
  h is /her performance/ conduct and attendance is satisfactory / not satisfactory.
  h e/She has earned / not earned all salary increments.
  h e /She has/has not been subjected to disciplinary action.
  (if subjected to disciplinary action,please state details)
 17.3 If selected for the post applied for , it is possible / not possible to release the officer from the position  currently   
held by him/ her.
    
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of department .
 Official Stamp.
date :–––––––––––.
07–464
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.