

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2220$2 – 2021 ud¾;= 22 jeks i÷od – 2021'03'22
2220/2 – MONDAY, MARCH  22, 2021
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
My No.: CI/1826. 
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective  Agreement entered into between American & Eﬁ rd Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd., No. 67, Avissawella Road, Welivita, 
Kaduwela of the one part and the Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya, No. 341/21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya 
of the other part on 11th August, 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, 
of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956). 
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
1A – G 33993 – 23 (2021/03)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 2A
Collective Agreement No. 36 of 2020
Collective Agreement (2020 - 2023) 
BETWEEN
AMERICAN & EFIRD LANKA (PVT) LTD.
and
SRI  LANKA  NIDAHAS  SEWAKA  SANGAMAYA 
THIS Collective Agreement is made and entered into on this 11th day of August, Two Thousand Twenty (2020) between 
American & Eﬁ  rd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., having its Registered oﬃ   ce at No. 67, Avissawella Road, Welivita, Kaduwela 
and bearing Company Registered No. PV 2953 (hereinafter referre d to as the ‘Employer’) of the one part and the 
Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya, being a Trade Union duly registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance and having 
its Registered oﬃ  ce at No. 341/21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya (here inafter referred to as the ‘‘Union’’) of the 
other part witnesseth:
WHEREAS the Union has shown to the satisfaction of the Employer that it  represents a majority of the Operative Grade 
employees employed by the Employer.
AND WHEREAS it is the desire of both the Union and the Employer to enter into an Agreement, which will ensure the 
peaceful adjustment and settlement of all disputes which may arise between the Employer and its employees and/or the Union 
and the promotion of industrial peace, productivity, quality and attendance.
NOW THEREFORE for and in consideration of the above premises and the mutual terms and conditions hereinafter set out, 
the Union and the Employer agree as follows:- 
   1 .  Title.– This Agreement shall be known and referred to as “THE  OPERATIVE  GRADE  EMPLOYEES’  COLLECTIVE 
AGREEMENT  2020 - 2023.
   2 .  Date of Operation and Duration .– The Collective Agreement shall be eﬀ  ective for a period of 3 years from 
1.4.2020 and may be terminated by either party with one (01) mo nth’s written notice to the other, provided however that 
neither party shall give such notice prior to 31.3.2023. Any no tice of termination of this Agreement given by either party, 
prior to 31.3.2023 shall not be regarded as valid notice and shall be of no avail.
   3 .  Persons covered and bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and all members of 
the Union who are employed on permanent contracts of employment by the Employer in the manual/operative grades at the 
Employer’s plant at Kaduwela.
   4 .  Declaration of Principle.– 
 ( a) Both Employer and the Union accept the principle that the spe cial consideration aﬀ ecting employer are such 
that the wage and salary rates are a proper subject for collect ive bargaining between the Employer and the 
Union, and that the actions of other employers including Govern ment Corporations and the Government of 
Sri Lanka in their capacity as employers of labour, regarding t he amount and timing of wage increases are 
not automatically relevant in the context of the Employer except where otherwise provided by legislation.
 ( b) In cases in which Government does provide by legislation for beneﬁ ts including increases in wages,

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 3A
 i. When such beneﬁ  ts are more favourable to the beneﬁ  ts stipulated only the diﬀ  erence between such 
beneﬁ ts provided by such legislation and the beneﬁ ts stipulated herein, shall be added to the said beneﬁ ts 
stipulated herein.
 ii. When such beneﬁ  ts are equal or less favourable to the beneﬁ ts stipulated herein, they shall not be added 
to or compounded with the said beneﬁ ts stipulated herein,
 ( c) The stipulations contained in Para (b) above are without prej udice to the principle contained in Para (a) 
above.
   5 .  General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall  as from the 
date hereof and during the continuance in force of this Agreement be deemed to be concluded in all contracts of employment 
between the employer and the employees covered and bound by thi s Agreement, whether such contract of employment be 
written or oral or whether employment was subsisting as at the date hereof or shall come into being at any time after the date 
hereof but during the continuance in force of this Agreement. P rovided, that in the event of any conﬂ  ict or inconsistency 
between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and any pre- existing terms and conditions or practices, the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement shall prevail.
   6 .  Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment or Beneﬁ ts.–
 ( a) The Union and its members and the Employees covered and bound  by this Agreement jointly and severally 
agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary or 
add to all or any of the practices, terms and conditions or employment presently applicable to 
 ( b) any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement or all or any of the beneﬁ ts presently enjoyed by 
any of the workers covered and bound by this Agreement.
 ( c) This Agreement shall be deemed to be a full and ﬁ  nal settlement of all matters covered herein as well as all 
matters raised by the Union or incidental hereto and in respect of which negotiations took place between the 
parties before the conclusion of this Agreement.  
   7 .  Wages.–
 ( a) As from the 1st day of April 2020 the Employer shall revise t he wages of employees covered and bound by 
15% of the salary drawn as at 31st March 2020.
 ( b) As from 1st of April 2021, the employees covered and bound sh all be eligible to receive from the Employer 
a sum of Rs. 4,000 by way of a wage revision.
 ( c)  As from 1st of April 2022, the employees covered and bound shall be eligible to receive from the Employer 
a sum of Rs. 4,000 by way of a wage revision.
 ( d) The Union and its members agree that the wage revision grante d in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above shall 
along with the wage revisions granted by virtue of the Collecti ve Agreement for the period 2017-2020 shall 
be considered and acknowledged to have accumulatively rectiﬁ ed, any anomalies of the basic wage.
 ( e) The Union and its members further agrees in future, it shall not in any manner urge or request from the 
Employer for the rectiﬁ cation of any anomalies in the basic wage and that subsequent wage negotiations shall 
solely be based on the median wage increases, granted to employees in similar industries.
   It is also agreed by parties that a fresh criteria of apprai sing performance of employees covered and bound shall be 
ﬁ nalized in consultation with the union and its members and prior to the wage revision to be granted in the year 2023. 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 4A
8. Production Incentive.– Employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall continue to receive a production 
incentive, in terms of the current scheme applicable to them and shall not demand for any change in the existing scheme. 
9. Employee Grievance Handling Procedure .– In the event of an Employee grievance, the following procedu re 
shall be followed in resolving such grievance.
 ( a) The employee will, in the ﬁ rst instance discuss the grievance with the Departmental Executive.
 ( b) If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved, the Employee may then discuss the matter with the Departmental 
Manager. The Departmental Manager will, if necessary, in consul tation with the Employer’s Management 
endeavor to arrive at a satisfactory solution in respect of the grievance. 
 ( c) In the event of the grievance not being resolved at the level  of the Departmental Manager, the issue in 
grievance will then be discussed by the Employee with the Emplo yee Relations Manager/Human Resource 
Manager of the Employer.
 ( d) If  no satisfactory solution is arrived at, then the issue in  grievance will be discussed by the Branch Union 
and the Employer’s Management. At such discussion, the number of representatives from each side shall not 
exceed four (4).
10. Disputes Resolution Procedure .– In the event of a dispute arising out of matters that are no t covered under 
this Collective Agreement, both parties agree they shall refer such dispute for settlement in terms of the Dispute Settlement 
Procedure incorporated hereunder.
 ( a) Whenever there is a dispute, a written statement of the dispu te should be forwarded by the Union’s branch 
committee to the employer, and at least two weeks given for the Employer to resolve the dispute.
 ( b) If no satisfactory solution is found, the matter should be re ferred to the parent Union and to the Employers 
Federation of Ceylon (EFC), for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute.
 ( c)  If after the discussion, the matter cannot be resolved by th e intervention of the EFC and the parent Union, 
the conciliatory proceedings under the industrial disputes act should be followed.
 ( d) If after conciliation has failed in the Labour Department, the Union wishes to take trade union action, written 
notice should be given of not less than 14 days to the employer and to the EFC.
11. Trade Union Action .– The Union and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreem ent jointly and 
severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any form 
of trade union action in respect of any dispute related to matters covered by this Agreement. 
12. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.– On the termination of this Agreement, facilities and concessions 
enjoyed by the Union under this Agreement shall ipso facto cease. Employee beneﬁ ts as per the Collective Agreement will 
remain unchanged provided Employees continue with the agreed wo rk practices, terms and conditions stipulated in this 
Agreement.
13. Breaches of the Agreement by the Union and / or its Members.– If in the opinion of the Employers’ Federation 
of Ceylon, the Union or its members have committed a breach of this Agreement, then and in such event the Employer 
reserves the right to withdraw all or any of the facilities or concessions granted to the Employees, or Union seven (07) days 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 5A
after raising such breach with the Union in writing without pre judice to the Employer’s right to restore such facilities or 
beneﬁ ts upon such terms and conditions as the Employer and the empl oyers’ Federation of Ceylon may decide. The Union 
will be entitled to dispute the justiﬁ cation of such withdrawal.
If in the opinion of the Union, the Employer has committed a breach of this Agreement then and in such event, the 
Union would have the right to refer such matter to the Commissioner of Labour.
14. Interpretation of Agreement.– Any dispute over the interpretation of this Agreement shall be settled by voluntary 
arbitration under section 3(i)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act (1950).
15. Deﬁ nitions.– Unless the context otherwise requires the following words shall have the following meaning.
 ( a) “ Employee’’ or “Workman” shall mean an employee in the permanent establishment and covered and bound 
by this Agreement.
 ( b) “ Dispute” shall have the same meaning as an “Industrial Dispute” in the Industrial Disputes Act (1950) as 
amended or in any Act enacted by the Parliament to replace the Industrial Disputes Act subject to the proviso 
that it shall not include a dispute involving a variation of this Collective Agreement.
  Words importing the masculine gender shall include the femini ne gender.
  Words importing the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa.
In witness hereof, the parties have set their hands to this Collective Agreement on this 11th day of August 2020, at the EFC  
Oﬃ  ce in Rajagiriya.


<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 6A
04 - 149
My No.: CI/1818.   
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between State Mortgage & Investment Bank, No. 269, Galle Road, Colombo 03  
of the one part and Ceylon  Bank Employees Union, No. 20, Templ e Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 13th August, 
2018 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industri al Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments 
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956). 
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
Collective Agreement No. 34 of 2020
Collective Agreement 
BETWEEN
STATE MORTGAGE AND INVESTMENT BAN K No. 269, GALLE ROAD, COLOMBO  03.
of the one part
and
CEYLON  BANK EMPLOYEES’  UNION, N o. 20, TEMPLE ROAD, COLOMBO  10. 
of the other part
This Collective Agreement is made and entered into on this 13th day of August, Two Thousand and Eighteen (2018) by and 
between the State Mortgage & Investment Bank having its head oﬃ  ce at 269, Galle Road, Colombo 03 in the Republic of 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 7A
Sri Lanka and duly incorporated by the State Mortgage and Investment Bank law No. 13 of 1975 of the one part (herein after 
referred to as ‘‘ the Bank’’) and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union its head oﬃ  ce No 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the 
other part  (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Union’’).
 TITLE: This Agreement will be known and referred to as STATE MORTGAGE & INVESTMENT BANK COLLECTIVE  
AGREEMENT WITH THE CEYLON BANK EMPLOYEES’ UNION FOR THE PERIOD OF FIRST 
JANUARY TWO THOUSAND AND EIGHTEEN TO THIRTY FIRST DECEMBER TWO THOUSAND 
AND TWENTY  (01.01.2018 TO 31.12.2020.)
1. Employer to be Covered and Bound. –  This Agreement shall cover and bind the State Mortgage & Investment 
Bank which is a party to this Agreement.
2. Employees to be Covered and Bound. –  This Agreement shall cover and bind members of the Ceylon Bank 
Employees’ Union in employment with the Bank who are employed in any of the categories for which a salary scale has been 
prescribed in this Agreement in the Annex I hereto.
3. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall come into force on First day of  January, Two Thousand 
and Eighteen (01.01.2018) and thereafter continue to be enforced, unless it is determined by either party giving six months 
notice in writing to the other provided, however that no party shall give such notice to the other party after First day of July 
Two Thousand and Twenty (01.07.2020).
    4 .  Matters Covered and Variaion of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Beneﬁ ts.–
 (a) This Agreement shall be in full and ﬁ nal settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters 
raised by the Union in relation to the period 2018-2020 and in respect of which negotiations took place 
between the parties before the conclusion of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the 
continuance in force of this Agreement raise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between 
the parties preceding this Agreement other than the matters rel ating to non salary beneﬁ ts which shall be 
discussed by the Mangement of the Bank with the Union and reach  ﬁ nality on or before 31st December 
2018. After an agreement has been arrived at as regard non-salary beneﬁ ts the terms and conditions of same 
shall be annexed to this agreement, which shall form an integral part thereof.
 (b) The Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or 
add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment or beneﬁ ts  applicable or enjoyed as provided 
for in this Agreement other than by mutual agreement with the Bank.
   5 .  Salary Components.– As from 01.01.2018 each employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be paid upon 
and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained a monthly salary which comprises of the following components:
 (i) Fixed Component linked to “Basic Salary” and related Allow ances.
 (ii) Variable Component linked to performance. (Please refer s election 5.2)
   5.1 Fixed Component.– The Fixed Component comprises the following items:-
 (i) Revised Basic salary as set out in the Annex I hereto. (Increme nts will be granted continuously 
notwithstanding the maximum point given in the salary scales).  
 (ii) Allowances.– 
     ( a) In addition to the basic salary, the following allowances wil l be paid, eﬀ ective from First day of 
January Two Thousand and Fifteen. (01.01.2018).
 (i) Cost of Living Allowance as per item ( b) below
 (ii) Rent Allowance as per item (
c) below
 (iii) 10% of Basic salary, Rent Allowance and Cost of Living A llowance.
 ( b) The Cost of Living Allowance at the rate of Rs. 2.75 frozen as at December, 1999 at the index point 
of 2404.9 commencing  from January, 2000 every one (01) point change over and above the Colombo 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 8A
Consumer Price Index (CCPI) of December 1999 only will be computed at Rs. 3/-. If the index point 
drops below the December level, i.e., 2404.9 the computation should be at the rate of Rs. 2.75 per 
point.
 ( c) The Rent Allowance, which will be 20% of the Basic Salary.
   5.2 Variable Component.– Basis of determination of Variable component shall be dicided in the course of time.
   6 .   Tax on Emoluments .–  PAYE tax on emoluments of staﬀ  shall be borne by the Bank.
    7 .  Conversion of the Basic Salary .–  
 ( a) The Basic Salaries of all empolyees will be converted to the revised scale by applying the step for step (point 
by point) method of conversion.
  Eg. An employee who had been on the 5th step of the scale as at 31.12.2017 will be placed on 05th step of the 
relevant revised scale with eﬀ ect from 01.01.2018.
 (b) Non-Banking Stream personnel shall also be placed at the appropriate revised salary scale, on the same basis.
  8. Conversion Anomalies.– The  State Mortgage & Investment Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union jointly 
agree to execute the  Collective Agreeent for the years 2018 - 2020 subject to referring to a Salary and Cadre Committtee to 
examine the possible anomalies associated with calculation of increments in the salary scales.
  9. Review of the Salary Structure .– The  State Mortgage & Investment Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ 
Union jointly agree to review the existing salary structure of the employees referred in clause No. 05 of this agreement.
  10. Other Commitments.– The  Union further agrees to assist, cooperate and support the Management of the Bank 
in every manner to obtain the maximum contribution of its members to achieve the targets set out in the Business Plan of the 
Bank.
   11. Where the existing terms and conditions of employment of an employee covered and bound by this agreement and 
any existing concessions extended to the members of the Union are more favourable than the terms and conditions provided 
for in this agreement, then nothing in this agreement shall in any way affect or prejudice such existing terms and conditions 
of employment of such concessions shall continue to exist, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein.
   12. Where an employee was immediately prior to the date hereof entitled to, becomes entitled on or after that date 
under or by virtue of any law, contract, agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges more favourable than those to 
which he / she would be entitled under this agreement, nothing in this agreement shall be deemed or construed to authorize 
or permit the Bank to withhold, restrict or terminate such right or privilege.


<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 9A


<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'03'22
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 22.03.2021
 10A
04 – 150
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.