

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"262- 2022 ckjdß ui 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2022.01'07
No. 2,262– FriDAY , 07 jANuArY, 2022
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy, GAzETTE,
AtteNtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th January, 2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13
th january, 2022.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.,
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2022.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1 - B 082305 - 5,403 (01/2022)
N. B.–   Part III of the Gazette No. 2,261 of 31.12.2021 was not published.
 
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 4
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … - 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
regulations, the establishments code, Departmental orders or regulations 
and any other orders or regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
3
Rules  and   Instructions  for  candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
4
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service – 2021 (I)
it is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ 
Service will be conducted in the month of April in Colombo in accordance with the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Teacher 
Educators’ Service bearing No.1925/37 dated 28.07.2015 and published in the Gazette 
extraordinary of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
02. The relevant syllabus and the other Provisions applicable to this Examination have been published under the
Schedule III of the aforementioned Service Minute. The syllabus and the other Provisions are mentioned below for the 
convenience of the Candidates. 
An Officer can sit for the prescribed subjects of this Efficiency Bar Examination in the same sitting or in separate 
sittings.
03. Procedure of the 
examination.– Written Test :
Subject Number Subject Marks Duration (Hours)
01 General Management and establishment Affairs 100 1 1/2
02 Financial Regulations 100 1 1/2
03 Educational Reforms and Educational Law 100 02
04 English Language 100 02
04. The Syllabus :
Subject 
Number
Subject Content of the Subject
01 General 
Management and 
establishment 
Affairs
With special reference to Chapters I, II, III, IV , V , VII, VIII, IX, XII, XIII, XIV , XXIV , 
XXVII, XXX and XXXI of the Establishments Code 
With special reference to Chapter I, III, IV , V , VI, VIII, X and XII of the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service Commission. 
02 Financial 
regulations
With special reference to Chapters I, II, V , VIII, XII and XIV of Part 1 of the Financial 
Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka
03 Educational 
reforms and 
Educational Law
Candidates are expected to be familiar with the following Ordinances and Acts of the 
Parliament.
i.
Education Reforms 1972 (New Approach to Education)
ii. White Paper on Education 1981
iii. First Report of the National Education Commission 1992
iv. New Education Reforms 1997
v. New Educational Reforms implemented since 1999 (Primary, Secondary &
G. C. E. (A/L))
vi. The Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968 as amended by the Public
Examinations (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1976
vii. The National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1986
viii. The Colleges of Education Act, No. 30 of 1986
ix. The National Education Commission Act, No. 19 of 1991
x. The National Authority on Teacher Education Act, No. 32 of 1997
xi. The Constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference to the 13th Amendment and
Chapter 3 on Fundamental Rights
xii. Conventions enforced Provincial Councils relevant to Education

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
5
Subject 
Number
Subject Content of the Subject
04 English Language - english Grammar:-  Tense and Number, Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/
Compound Complex), Relative Clauses, Adjectives and Adverbs, Prepositions.
- Communication Skills: - General  Greetings and Introduction, Giving and getting
information, Advising, Suggesting and expressing opinions, telephone skills,
Interviewing Skills, Meeting.
- 
- Writing Skills: - Internal modes of communication, Formal correspondence skills,
writing descriptions Explanations, Summary Writing Skills, Report Writing Skills
N.B- Candidates are required to obtain at least 40% marks on each paper for a pass in the Efficiency Bar Examination.
A candidate may pass the examination with one or more subjects at a single sitting.
Note: - Requirement to obtain a pass in the subject of English Language under this Efficiency Bar Examination will 
be exempted when a candidate has followed the Degree or Post Graduate Diploma or Post Graduate Degree in the 
Medium of english. 
05. Language Mediums of the examination :
5.1 This Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English Mediums. The language Medium applied for the
Examination cannot be altered later.
06. Application should be prepared as per the format mentioned here using the both sides of an A4 sized paper and the
Heads No.01 to 05 should appear on the first page. In the preparation of application, the title of the Examination appearing 
in the heading of the applications should be mentioned in English Language in addition to the Sinhala Language in Sinhala 
applications and in English Language in addition to the Tamil Language in Tamil applications. You should be cautious 
whether the application is in conformity with the specimen application mentioned in the Notification of the Examination 
and whether all the information have been accurately completed prior to directing the application as the applications not  in 
conformity with the specimen application and with incomplete information are rejected without prior notice. Further, please 
be attentive whether the prescribed Examination Fees have been paid and the said details are included in the relevant place 
of the application and the receipt is affixed to the application. It would be beneficial to keep a photocopy of the application.
07. This Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations in Colombo and the candidates
are bound to  follow the Rules and Regulations imposed by him. Further, the candidates should also obey the quarantine 
rules and regulations in the country.
08. Punishment for providing false information - Accurate information should be furnished carefully in filling the
application. The candidature of a certain Candidate will be cancelled in any instance before, during or after the examination 
if it is revealed that he/ she is not qualified and has furnished false information according to the provisions related to this 
Examination.
09. The candidate should substantiate his/ her identity to the supervisor for each subject that he /she sits at the Examination
Hall. For that purpose, any of the followings will be accepted.
i.
National identity card
ii. Valid Passport
iii. Valid Driving License
Similarly, the candidates should enter the Examination Hall without covering their face and ears, in a manner the identity 
of the candidate can be confirmed. Furthermore, candidates who refuse to substantiate his/her identity will not be permitted 
to enter the Examination Hall. In addition, cnadidates should keep their face and ears uncovered from the moment they 
enter the Examination Hall until they leave the Hall after completing the Examination enabling the examination authorities 
to identify the candidate. If any objection in this regard is made, the candidate will not be permitted to sit the Examination. 
Nevertheless, results will not be issued for such candidates who fail to substantiate their identity.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
6
10. Applications should be sent through registered post to reach ''The Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Institutional Examinations Organization Branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P.O. Box. 1503, Colombo on 
or before 07.02.2022. The applications sent after this date will be rejected. The caption, ''Efficiency Bar Examination for 
Officers in the Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service - 2021 (I) '' should be mentioned on the top left hand 
corner of the envelop enclosing the applications.
11. With the presumption that only the candidates fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette Notification have 
applied for the Examination, admissions will be issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations to the candidates, 
who have submitted duly perfected applications with the relevant receipt obtained after paying the prescribed Examination 
fee on or before the closing date of applications. A notification on the issuance of admissions shall be published by the 
Department of Examinations in newspapers and in the Official Website of the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka 
immediately after issuing admissions to candidates. A candidate, who does not receive his/her admission two or three days 
after publishing the notification, should inform in to the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, as mentioned in the 
advertisement. Full name of the candidate, the address of the candidate and the National Identity Card number and the title 
of the Examination applied for should be indicated in making such inquiries. If the candidate resides outside Colombo, it 
will be effective to fax a request letter along with such details of the candidate to the Fax No. mentioned in the Notification 
including a fax number of the candidate through which the candidate can obtain a copy of the admission via fax. In inquiring 
so, it will be useful to get prepared to produce the copy of the application kept with the candidate and copy of the relevant 
receipt if the payment of Examination fees is applicable and receipt issued for sending the application by registered post, if 
it is necessary to substantiate any information requested by the Department of Examinations. Issuance of an admission to a 
candidate should not be deemed as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled qualifications for sitting the Examination. 
12. The complaints lodged by the candidates who fail to fulfil the requirements mentioned in the Para 11 above will not 
be entertained. 
13. The Signature of the Candidate should have been attested in the application as well as in the admission for the 
Examination. A Candidate in public service/ provincial public service/public corporation should certify his/her signature 
from the Head of the Institution or from an officer authorized by the Head of institution. A candidate should hand over the 
admission; in which his/her signature has been attested, to the Supervisor of the Examination on the first day of sitting the 
examination. Any candidate who fails to submit his/her duly admission is not permitted to sit the examination.
14. examination Fees :
 ( a) The Candidates sitting this Examination should pay Examination Fees on the following basis.  
 (i) Fees will not be charged for the first sitting.
 (ii) Examination Fees as mentioned below will be charged for each sitting subsequent to the first sitting.
  Full Examination fee  Rs. 500
  Fee per one Subject  Rs. 250
 ( b)  The receipt obtained in favour of the Candidate by paying this Examination fee to any Post Office / Sub Post 
Office of the Island to be credited to the revenue of the Government under the Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations should be firmly affixed through an edge of the receipt on the specified 
place of the application. It will be useful for the candidate to keep a photocopy of the receipt. 
 ( c)  Money orders or stamps will not be accepted for the Examination fee. The fees charged for this Examination will 
not be refunded or transferred to any other examination under any circumstances. 
15. A result sheet of all the Candidates who sat the Examination will be forwarded to the Secretary of the Ministry of 
Education by the Commissioner General of Examinations. The result sheets will not be personally issued to the Candidates 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
7
16. The Candidates are subject to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination in 
relation to the conduct of the Examination. It is informed that he/she will have to undergo any punishment imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations in case such rules or regulations are violated.
17. In case of any inconsistency prevails among language texts of this notification  published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English Languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such an instance.
18. The decision of the Secretary of Education will be final and conclusive pertaining to any matter, which is not covered 
by this notification.
 Prof. K. KaPila. C. K. Perera,                                                           
 S e c r e t a r y ,                                                                              
  Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,                                             
isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
On 24th December, 2021.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
YS% ,xld .=re wOHdmk{ fiajfha III jeks fY%a‚fha ks,Odßka i|yd jQ ld¾hlaIu;d lvbï úNd.h - 2021 ^1&
effiCienCy Bar examination for offiCers in grade iii of the sri lanKa teaCher eduCators’ serviCe – 2021 (i)
Applications should be sent by registered Post through the Head of the institution to reach Commissioner General 
of Examinations, Institutional examinations Organization Branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P.O Box 1503, 
Colombo. (The title of the Examination should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope)
The Medium of Language through which the Officer sits the Examination: - Sinhala  - 2     
         Tamil      - 3
                                                                                                                              English - 4
                                                                                (Indicate the relevent number in the cage)
01.   (i)  Name in Full: (In English Block Capitals) :..............................................................................................................
          (ex: HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
          (ii)  Name indicating the last name first and the initials at the end (In English Block Capitals) : ...................................
     ...................................................................................................................................................................................
          (ex: Gunawardhana, H.M.S.K.)
          (iii) Name in Full (In Sinhala/Tamil) : .............................................................................................................................
02.    (i) National College of Education/ Teachers’ College/ Teachers’ Centre wherein the candidate is serving and its Address 
    (In English Block Capitals)  The admissions are referred to this Address :..............................................................
   (iii) Personal Address (In English Block Capitals) : ........................................................................................................
         
03. Telephone Number :
   (i) Mobile Telephone :
   (ii) Fixed Telephone :

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
8
04.   (i)  National Identity Card Number:       
    (ii)  Sex:    Male     - 0 
                  Female - 1        
                             (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. The subjects for which candidate sits should be clearly indicated with the Subject Number and the Subject mentioned 
under (a) in para two of the notification. 
Subject Subject No.
06.    (i)  Date of birth:     Year  :                            Month  :                    Date :
        
    (ii)  Designation : ............................................................................................................................................................. 
07. Whether sat the full or part of the Examination before and if so, mention the subjects and the year of sitting the 
Examination and the Mediums.
Subject Year Medium Index Number
08. Particulars in relation to the payment of the Examination fee if applicable :
   (i) Receipt Number : ......................................................................................................................................................
   (ii) Post Office/ Sub post office to which the fee has been paid : ...................................................................................
   (iii) Date : .........................................................................................................................................................................
   (iv) The Amount paid : .....................................................................................................................................................
Paste the receipt here in one edge 
09. I, do hereby declare that the information mentioned above is accurate and I am entitled to sit this Examination in the 
Medium of Language mentioned as per para 05 of this Gazette Notification. I have affixed receipt herein obtained after 
paying the examination fee.  Further, I do declare that I agree to be liable to the rules and regulations imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations pertaining to the conduct of the Examination and the issuance of results.
                                                                                                   –––––––––––––––––,                                                         
                                                                                                      Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.                                                                                          

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
9
10. Attestation of Signature :
 I certify that Mr. /Mrs./Ms. ........................................................... serving in my National College of Education / Teachers' 
College/Teachers’ Center  is personally known to me and he/she palced his/her signature before me on .......................... 
and he/she is exempted from the examination fee /has paid the due examination fee and affixed the receipt here.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the signature
  (Immediate Staff officer)
 Name  :…………………………
 Designation :…………………………
 Address :…………………………
 Date :…………………………
11. Commissioner General of Examinations,
 Department of Examination, Sri Lanka
I do hereby certify that the candidate described above is qualified to sit this Examination and he/she is eligible to sit 
this Examination in the medium of Language indicated by him/her as per the para 05 of the Gazette Notification. Further, I 
certify that the Candidate is exempted from paying the Examination fee/ has paid the specified Examination Fee and affixed 
the receipt obtained after the payment of the Examination fees.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the President of National College of Education / 
 Principal of the Teachers’ College / Manager of the Teachers’ Centre.
 Designation : ..........................................
 (Substantiate with the Official Frank) 
(Delete the words not applicable)
01–17
My Number : - DNA2/MA7/3/16
DEPARTmENT Of NATIONAL  ARChIvES  
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the post of Supervising Management Assistant 
Technical Services Category Archival Reprographer Training Grade of the Department of National 
Archives - 2021
Applications are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit to the post of Supervising Management Assistant 
Technical Services Category Archival Reprographer Training grade of the Department of National Archives. There are 06 
vacancies. 70% of this is recruited under open stream.
 01. Recruitment will be done through this examination for the post of Supervising Management Assistant Technical 
Services Category Archival Reprographer Training Grade of the Department of National Archives. The last date for calling 
applications is february 07, 2022. The examination will be held only at the examination centers established in Colombo.
 02. Duties of the Post:
Approved designation 
names
Duties
Archival Reprographer Reprography of documents in the archives and newspapers of the Department of National 
Archives to replace in another medium, Quality inspection of micro- filming photographs, 
performing photographic activities of the department and copying documents required for 
public requests, Perform other duties related to the post assigned by the Director General 
National Archives, National Archives Dep./ Asst. Director (Films & Audio Visual), National 
Archives Dep./ Asst. Director (Technical) and Chief Archival Reprography Officer.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
10
03. Terms of service:
 ( a) Establishments Code and the Amendments made or thereafter to the Service Minute and Procedure and the 
Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological Service, to the General Conditions Governing appointments in 
the Public Service and to the terms and conditions imposed in the Procedure approved by the Public Service 
Commission on 05.06.2018 Candidates who are selected subject to the provisions of the Financial Regulations 
will be appointed to the Post of Archival Reprographer after successfully completing the training period.
 ( b)  This post is permanent. With pension. Although this position is stated to be pensionable, future recruits will 
be subject to future policy decisions taken by the Government regarding the pension scheme. You must also 
contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans' Pension Scheme/ Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme. You will 
have to pay contributions as required by the Government from time to time.
 ( c)  Candidates who are admitted to this training grade will be recruited to Grade III Archival Reprographer after 
successfully completing the two year training period and submitting the certificate of passing the examination 
conducted by the relevant institutions. The appointment is subject to a three - year probation period. Supervising 
Management Assistants shall pass the Departmental Examination in addition to the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination as specified in the Recruitment Scheme within 03 years of recruitment to the Grade III Archival 
Reprographer of the Technical Services Category.
 ( d)  The Director General of National Archives has the power to cancel the appointment of candidates who fail to 
accept the duties of the post offered to them on the due date.
04. monthly Salary Scale:
According to the Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016, the allowance applicable to the Supervising Management 
Assistant Technical Service Category Archival Reprographer (Training Grade) of the Department of National Archives is 
as follows :
 Monthly for the first year: Rs. 27,140/-
 Monthly for the second year Rs. 27,140/-
Apprentices who pass the examination conducted after satisfactory completion of the two year training period will be 
promoted to the post of Supervising Management Assistant Technical Services Grade III Archival Reprographer in the 
Department of National Archives. According to the aforesaid circular, the relevant salary scale (MN 3 - 2016) is Rs. 31,040 
- 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 10 x 730 - 10 x 750 - Rs. 57,550/- (Starting Salary Step - Rs. 31,040). In addition, you may receive 
other allowances paid by the government to public servants from time to time.
05. Recruitment Qualifications:
Position (a) Education Qualifications (b) Professional
Qualifications
(c) Experiences
Archival Reprographer 
(Training Grade)
Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) 
examination in Sinhala/ Tamil, Mathematics, 
Science and one other subject with Credit 
Pass in six (06) subjects simultaneously and in 
English not more than twice,
And
Passing the GCE Advanced Level Examination 
in three subjects (excluding the General 
Examination) simultaneously with two (02) 
subjects namely Biology, Chemistry, Combined 
Mathematics, Pure Mathematics and Applied 
Mathematics. 
Not Applicable Not Applicable

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
11
 ( a)  Physical Fitness:
  Every candidate should be mentally and physically fit enough to work in any part of Sri Lanka and perform the 
duties of the post.
 ( b)  Other:
 I.  Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 II.  Must have a great character.
 III.  No clergyman of any denomination is eligible to appear for this examination
 IV .  All the qualifications required to appear for the competitive examination for the post should have been 
completed in all respects by the date mentioned in the Notice of Calling Application/ Gazette Notification.
 ( c)  Age:
  The closing date for applications should be not less than eighteen (18) years and not more than thirty (30) 
years. Accordingly, only those whose birthdays falls on or before February 07, 2004 and February 07, 1992 or 
thereafter are eligible to apply.
06. method of recruitment:
Recruitment will be made for the Grade of Archival Reprographer Training based on the results of the written competitive 
examination and the General Interview. Candidates who have passed the written examination will be selected on the basis 
of their merit in the number of open recruitments followed by a general interview. Candidates who are admitted to this 
training grade will be recruited to Grade III Archival Reprographer after successfully completing the two year training 
period and submitting the certificate of passing the examination conducted by the relevant institutions. Apprentices who fail 
the examination held at the end of the training have the opportunity to extend their training period for a period not exceeding 
6 months. At the end of such an extended period, the service of the apprentices who fail the re - sit examination will be 
terminated.
 (a)  Written exam
A written examination consisting of two (02) question papers consisting of the following subjects will be conducted. The 
minimum marks required to pass each subject are as follows :–
 Subjects Time Total score Minimum marks required
     to pass
 01. Intelligence test  01h 100 40
 02. Technology ;dlaIKh (An objective 
 examination relevant to the post) 02h 100 40
Candidates should sit for all the question papers and answer all the question papers in one language only. The examination 
will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums and the medium of application will not be changed later.
(i) examination Results -  Candidates will be notified of the results by the Commissioner General of Examinations by post 
or through the website www.results.exams.gov.lk

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
12
07. Syllabus for the examination:
Name of the question paper Syllabus
01. Intelligence test It is intended to measure the candidate's general intelligence, reasoning ability, 
expression, numerical ability and comprehension ability.
02. Technology (Technical and 
subject related examination relevant 
to the post)
This is intended to measure the technical knowledge relevant to the positions.
08. Examination fees:
Examination Fees Rs. 600. Further, the examination fee should be paid in cash to any post office/ sub post office in the island 
under the Revenue Heads of the Commissioner General of Examinations 20-03-02-13 and the receipt obtained in the name 
of the applicant should be affixed at one place on the edge of the application so that it does not slip. Money orders or stamps 
will not be accepted for the examination fee and the fee paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any 
other examination for any reason. It may also be helpful to have a photocopy of the receipt.
09. method to apply:
(a)  The application should prepare according to the format attached to this notice and should be prepared on 
A4 paper. Computer- generated applications can also be used. The application should be prepared in such a way that the 
headings numbered 1.0 to 3.3 are included on the first page, the headings numbered 4.0 to 5.2 on the second page and the 
rest on pages 3 and 4. The applicant should complete the application in his own handwriting through the medium in which 
he/she is applying to appear for the examination.
(b)  Applications that do not comply with the specimen application and applications that are incompletely 
informed will be rejected without notice. (It may be helpful to have a photocopy of the application). The applicant should 
inquire whether the completed application is in line the application mentioned in the notice of examination. Otherwise the 
application may be rejected. The name of the examination mentioned in the title of the application should be in Sinhala in 
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in English in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications. The applicant should 
pay the prescribed examination fee, enter the details in the application and check again whether the receipt has been affixed.
(c)  Completed application should be received under registered cover on or before 07th february 2022 "Director 
General of National Archives, Department of National Archives, Philip Gunawardena Mawatha, Colombo 07".
At the top left corner of the application envelope should be clearly written "Open Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment - 2021" for Supervising Management Assistant Technical Service Category Archival Reprographer Training 
Grade of the Department of National Archives. No applications will be accepted after the closing date.
(d)  The signature of the applicant should be certified in the application and in the admission form for the 
examination. Whether an applicant working in a public service/ provincial public service/ public corporation have his/ her 
signature by the head of the institution or an authorized officer, otherwise an applicant should have his/her signature as the 
head/ retired officer of a government school, divisional officer, judge of the court, oath taker, oath taker Certified by a notary, 
an authorized officer of the Armed Forces, an officer of permanent staff rank in the Government/ Provincial Public Service, 
the Chief Incumbent of a Buddhist Temple, or the Presiding Priest, or in charge of any other religious place of worship or 
having a significant position in the clergy.
(e) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No complaints regarding loss or delay of application will be considered 
in the mail. The applicant shall bear the damages incurred by delaying the application till the last date.
(f)  You will not  be notified that the application has been received. Examination Admission will be issued by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations to the candidates who have paid the prescribed examination fees on or before the 
last date of receipt of the applications mentione d in the examination and submitted the completed applications along with 
the relevant receipt on the presumption that only those who have the qualifications mentioned in the examination notice have 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
13
applied. The Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will publish an announcement in the newspapers and on the official 
website of the Department stating that as soon as the examination admission forms are issued. If there is a candidates who has 
not obtained the admission card even after 02 or 03 days from the date of publication of the notice, he should inquire about 
it from the Institutional Examination Organizing Branch of the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka as mentioned in 
the advertisement. In doing so, the applicant should state the name of the examination to which he/ she has applied, the full 
name of the applicant, the National Identity Card number and the address. If the applicant is a resident outside Colombo, it 
would be more effective to send a request letter to Fax No. 011 2784232 stating the applicant's fax number so that a copy of 
the ticket can be obtained by fax with the details. In doing so, it will be useful to have a copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt of payment of examination fees and the registered post article at the time of mailing the application to confirm any 
information requested by the Department of Examinations.
10. Entering the exam:
(a)  Admission cards will be issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations to the candidates who have 
submitted the complete application in all respects. A candidate who does not present his/her admission card will not be 
allowed to sit for the examination.
(b)  Candidates should sit for the examination at the examination hall allotted to them. Each candidate should certify 
the signature of the relevant admission card for the examination hall and hand it over to the Head of the examination hall on 
the first day of his sitting in that hall.
Note -  Issuance of an Examination Admission Card to a Candidate is not considered as recognition that he or she has 
qualified for the examination.
(c) Candidates should confirm their identity to the satisfaction of the Head of the Hall for each subject they are 
sitting for in the examination hall. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
 i. National identity card
 II. Valid Passport
 III. Valid Sri Lankan Driving License
Candidates should also enter the examination hall without covering their face and both ears so that they can verify their 
identity. Candidates who refuse to prove their identities will not be admitted to enter the examination hall. Furthermore, from 
the moment of entering the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving, the candidates should not cover 
the face and both ears so that the candidate can be identified by examination authorities.
11. Penalties for providing false information:
If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature may be cancelled at any time before, during, or after the 
examination. A candidate is subject to dismissal if he/ she is found to have deliberately made a false point, or if he/she has 
deliberately suppressed an important point. Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations regarding the conduct of the examination and the issuance of results. Violation of those rules will 
result in a penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
12. Matters not considered in these regulations will be decided by the Director General of National Archives.
13. If there is any inconsistency or inconsistency between the language texts of this announcement published in the Sinhala, 
Tamil and  English mediums, in such a case the Sinhala press release will be acted upon.
As per the order of the Public Service Commission,
Director General National Archives,
Department of National Archives,
No. 07,
Philip Gunawardena Mawatha,
colombo 07.
05th day of January 2022.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
14
Specimen application
        For office use
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the post of Supervising Management Assistant 
Technical Services Category Archival Reprographer Training Grade of the Department of National 
Archives - 2021
1.0 
 1.1 Medium appearing for the examination:
 Sinhala  - 2
 Tamil  - 3
 English  - 4
 (Mention in the box)
 1.2 Full name (in capital letters);
  ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................................................................
 (Ex: HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN RATHNAYAKA)
 1.3 Name with initials (In English block letters):
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
 (Ex: H. M. S. RATHNAYAKA)
 1.4 Full name (Sinhala/ Tamil):
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................................................................
2.0 
 2.1 Permanent address (Sinhala/ Tamil):
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................................................................
 2.2 Address for the dispatch of the admission card ((Sinhala/ Tamil):
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................................................................
 2.3 Address for the dispatch of the admission card ((In English block letters):
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................................................................
3.0
 3.1 National Identity card Number:

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
15
 3.2 Sex:      Male    - 0
       Female - 1
 (Write the relevant number in the box)
 3.3 Telephone Number : Mobile        Fixed 
 4.1 Date of Birth
      Year  :                          Month  :                    Date :
 4.2 Age at the last date for receipt of applications:
    
      Years  :                             Months  :                    Days :
5.0 Educational Qualifications:
 5.1 G.C.E. (O/L) -  First sitting
                                                                                                    Year :
                                        Index No:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
 5.2  G.C.E. (O/L) -  Second sitting
                                                                                                    Year :
                                        Index No:
Subject Grade Subject Grade

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
16
 5.3 G.C.E. (A/L) 
                                                                                                  Year :
                                      Index No:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
6.0 Examination Fees (Fixed the receipt)
   I.  Post Office/ Sub Post Office: ..............................................................................................................
  Which the payment has done
  II.  Amount: ...................................................................................................................................
 III.  Date of the payment: ................................................................................................................
 IV .  Number of the receipt: ..............................................................................................................
 Fix the receipt here.
 (Keep the copy would be useful.)
7.0 Statement of the applicant:
I declare that the information given here is true to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I will be subjected 
to disqualification if the information is found to be false prior to my selection and I will be subject to dismissal without any 
compensation if it is discovered after the appointment. I further declare that I am subject to the rules and regulations imposed 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the conduct of examinations and the issuance of results. I also state 
that the relevant examination fees have been paid and the recepit has been affixed.
 ................................................ ................................................................
 Date Signature of the Applicant.
8. 0 Attestation of the signature of the Candidate:  (Cut out irrelevant words)
Submitting this application Mr./Mrs./ Miss .................................................................................... That I personally know and 
I hereby certify that he/she ................................................... was signed in front of me on .......................................... day of  
................................................. and that the due examination fee has been paid and the receipt has been affixed.
Signature of certifying officer: …………………………………………………………  
Full name of the certifying officer:  ……………………………………………………
Designation : (Rubber stamp):- . …………………………………………………………
Address:  …………………………………………………………………………………
Date: .........................................
Note: The application should be certified as mentioned in paragraph 9 (d) of the Gazette Notification.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
17
9.0 Attestation of the Head of the Department/ Institution.
I here by certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss .................................................................. Who is working in this Ministry/ Department/
Institution. If he/she will be selected for this post, he/she can/cannot be released from the service.
.........................................................   Rubber Stamp:  
 
  
Signature of the head of the Department
Date: ....................................................................................
Name of the head of the Department: ....................................................................................
Designation:  ....................................................................................
Address of the Office: ....................................................................................
01 - 103

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
18
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the 
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'01'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.01.2022
19
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received 
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be 
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication 
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of en-
suring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for 
postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2022
 JANuARy 07.01.2022 Friday — 24.12.2021 Friday 12 noon
  13.01.2022 Thursday –– 31.12.2021 Friday 12 noon
  21.01.2022 Friday –– 07.01.2022 Friday 12 noon
  28.01.2022 Friday –– 13.01.2022 Thursday 12 noon
 fEbRuARy 03.02.2022 Thursday — 21.01.2022 Friday 12 noon
  11.02.2022 Friday –– 28.01.2022 Friday 12 noon
  18.02.2022 Friday –– 03.02.2022 Thursday 12 noon
  25.02.2022 Friday –– 11.02.2022 Friday 12 noon
 mARCh 04.03.2022 Friday — 18.02.2022 Friday 12 noon
  11.03.2022 Friday –– 25.02.2022 Friday 12 noon
  18.03.2022 Friday –– 04.03.2022 Friday 12 noon
  25.03.2022 Friday –– 11.03.2022 Friday 12 noon
  
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st january, 2022.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.