

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL AUTHORITY ON TOBACCO AND
ALCOHOL (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 3 OF 2015
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 03rd March, 2015]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 20.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 06, 2015

<!-- page 2 -->

1National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol
(Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2015
2—PL 008771—3,000 (02/2015)
[Certified on 03rd March, 2015]
L.D.—O. 8/2015.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY ON TOBACCO AND
ALCOHOL ACT, NO. 27 OF 2006
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the National Authority on
Tobacco and Alcohol (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2015.
2. Section 34 of the National Authority on Tobacco and
Alcohol Act, No. 27 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the
“principal enactment”) is hereby repealed and the following
section substituted therefor:—
34 (1) A manufacturer or an importer of a
tobacco product shall cause to be displayed
conspicuously and in legible print—
(a) on the top surface area of both front
and back sides of every packet, package
or carton containing the tobacco
product manufactured or imported by
such manufacturer  or importer, health
warnings, as may be prescribed, subject
to the provisions of section 34 A; and
(b) on every packet, package or carton
containing the tobacco product
manufactured or imported by such
manufacturer or importer,  a lable or a
statement specifying the tar and
nicotine content in each tobacco
product in such packet, package or
carton.
“Prohibition
of the
manufacture,
sale, import
etc. of
tobacco
products
without
health
warnings and
a label or a
statement of
tar and
nicotine
content.
Short title.
Replacement of
section 34 of
Act, No. 27 of
2006.

<!-- page 3 -->

National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol
(Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2015
2
(2) A person shall not sell, offer for sale,
supply, distribute or store a packet, package or
carton containing tobacco products unless
health warnings as provided for in subsection
(1) (a) and a label or a statement as provided
for in subsection (1)( b), are displayed
conspicuously in legible print on every packet,
package or carton containing the tobacco
products.
(3) Any person who contravenes the
provisions of subsection (1) or subsection (2),
commits an offence and on conviction after
summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a
fine not exceeding rupees fifty thousand or to
an imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding one year or to both such fine
and imprisonment.”.
3. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 34 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 34
A of the principal enactment:—
34A. (1) A manufacturer or an importer of
cigarettes and other tobacco products shall
cause to be printed the health warnings referred
to in section 34(1), covering an area of eighty
per centum  of the top surface area (principle
display area) of both front and back sides of
every packet, package or carton containing
cigarettes and other tobacco products.
(2) The health warnings referred to in the
foregoing subsection, shall indicate in the
prescribed manner, the health hazards and the
harmful effects caused by the usage of
cigarettes and other tobacco products.
(3) The health warnings on the front and
back sides of the packet, package or carton
shall defer from each other.
Insertion of new
section 34 A in
the principal
enactment.
“How to
display
health
warnings.

<!-- page 4 -->

3National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol
(Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2015
(4) Where a manufacturer manufactures
more than one brand of cigarettes and other
tobacco products, the manufacturer shall ensure
that two different brands manufactured by such
manufacturer shall not bear the same health
warning, simultaneously.
(5) The health warnings displayed on the
packets, packages or cartons of cigarettes and
other tobacco products shall be changed once
in every six months, so that all types of
prescribed health warnings under all prescribed
categories of health warnings shall be covered.
(6) The manufacturers and importers of
cigarettes and other tobacco products shall use
the compact disc containing the prescribed
health warnings which shall be issued only by
the Authority.”.
4. Section 45 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immedialely after the definition
of the expression “Chairman” of the following definition:—
“ “Health warnings” includes pictures or pictograms
and messages.”.
5. The manufacturers and importes of existing stocks of
tobacco products shall be granted a grace period up to June
1, 2015, to comply with the provisions of section 34
A.
6. Regulations made under section 30 read with section
34 of the principal enactment prior to the date of
commencement of this Act shall, continue to be in operation
with effect from the date of commencement of this Act, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Amendment of
sectionm 45 of
the principal
enactment.
Transitional.
provisions.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Savings

<!-- page 5 -->

National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol
(Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2015
4
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .