

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 977
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"017 – 2017 wfm%a,a ui 28 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'04'28
No. 2,017 –  FRiday ,  aPRil  28, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th May, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th  May, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
975-B 81164- 5,403(04/2017)
N. B.– Parts i:ii(a) of the Gazette No. 2016 of 21.04.2017 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
976
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
977
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of SkILLS DEvELOPmENT AND 
vOCATIONAL TRAINING 
National Apprentice and Industrial Training 
Authority
iNStitUtE oF ENGiNEERiNG 
tEcHNoloGy - KatUNayaKE 
REcRUitMENt oF SPEcial aPPRENticES iN 
ENGiNEERiNG FoR NatioNal diPloMa iN 
ENGiNEERiNG SciENcES (NdES) 
coURSE 2017 BatcH
aPPlicatioNS are invited from citizens of Sri lanka to 
recruit Special apprentices in Engineering 2017 batch for 
the above course of studies at the institute of Engineering 
technology (iEt), Katunayake.
1. Educational Qualifications for entry.– candidates 
with qualifications mentioned below are eligible to apply.
 1.1 a  Pass at the GcE (o/l) Examination in 06 
subjects in one sitting including three (03) 
credit passes for Mathematics, Science and 
language (Sinhala/ tamil/English) ;
  And
 1.2 an ordinary pass for English subject at the 
GcE (o/l) Examination for all the courses 
except Marine Engineering course.
  For the Marine Engineering course, credit 
pass for English subject at the GcE (o/l) 
Examination is compulsory ;
           And
 1.3 Passes at the GcE (a/l) in combined 
Mathematics, Physics & chemistry in one 
sitting ;
  Or
 1.4 Passes at the GcE (a/l) in combined 
Mathematics, Physics & information & 
communication technology in one sitting.  
(it is compulsory to pass the information 
& communication technology as a main 
subject). 
2. Age.– Between 18 and 25 years as at 31.12.2017
3. Duration & Course Schedule.– this is a four 
year course, where the 18 Month academic instruction 
Programme is sandwiched with the 30 Month industrial 
training as given below.
 
Basic instruction Programme at iEt  - 06 Months
Basic industrial training in industry - 12 Months
General instruction Programme at iEt - 06 Months
General industrial training in industry - 12 Months
Specialized instruction Programme  - 06 Months
 at iEt
Specialized industrial training in  - 06 Months
 industry
instruction Programmes consist of theoretical instructions 
& laboratory Practicals conducted at institute of 
Engineering technology.
industrial training Programmes are conducted at 
recognized industrial Establishments.
                                                
an English course will be conducted at the beginning 
of the course. Participation is compulsory for all selected 
apprentices for the English course.
4. Courses conducted in the IeT are as follows :
a. civil Engineering Sector
 1. civil - Building & Structural Engineering.  
2. civil - Highway & Railway Engineering.
3. civil - Water & Environmental Engineering.
B. Electrica l Engineering Sector & communication 
 
4. Electrical - Electronics & communication 
Engineering.
5. Electrical - Electrical Power Engineering. 
c.  Mechanical Engineering Sector 
6.   Mechanical - automotive Engineering
7.   Mechanical - Mechanical General Engineering
8.   Mechanical - Marine Engineering.
 (a)  “the Quality Management System of Marine 
Engineering Course of IET is certified for 
iSo 9001 quality Management System.
 (b) in respect of Marine Engineering course, 
the institute is engaged in providing 
academic instructions and industrial 
training Programmes to meet the mandatory 
requirements for knowledge, understanding 
and proficiency in Marine Engineering at 
the operational level related with StcW 95, 
including its amendments and model course 
7.04 of international Maritime organization 
(iMo) coverage.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
978
5. Medium of Instruction.–  all academic programmes 
are conducted in  English. 
6. Contract of Apprenticeship : 
 6.1 Each selected candidate is required to enter into 
a contract with the training establishment, which 
consists, mutual obligations on both the training 
establishment and the apprentice. at the time 
of registration, students should deposit a sum 
of Rs. 5000/-, refundable at the completion of 
the course. the deposit of the students, who are 
leaving the programme within two weeks from 
the date of registration will be refunded. 
 6.2 Sumurdhi beneficiaries are exempted from the 
refundable deposit, on submission of original 
Sumurdhi card with a certified letter from Grama 
Sevaka approved by divisional Secretary.
 6.3 all selected students will have to make a non 
refundable payment Rs. 500/- as registration fee 
at the registration. 
 6.4 there is no guarantee of employment at the end 
of the training period.
 6.5 all the students registered for the above courses, 
should maintain a minimum requirement of 
attendance specified by the Institute for each 
subject during the course period. those who fail 
to meet this requirement are not allowed to sit 
for the examinations and evaluations and they 
have to leave the course.  
7. Award of Certificates .– National diploma in 
Engineering Sciences Certificate will be awarded on 
successful completion of all examinations, evaluations and 
on clearance of all obligations. 
8. Selection Criteria :
 8.1 all applicants who have the minimum entry 
qualifications as stated in para 1 and within the 
age limit mentioned in para 2 above, would be 
eligible. Selections will be done as given below.
 8.2 those candidates who are eligible will be 
required to sit for a written   aptitude test in 
English medium.(Eligible candidates will be 
informed in advance)
 8.3 limited number of applicants will be called for 
an interview depending on the merit order of the 
written test.
02 of 05
 8.4 Applicants are finally selected, based on the 
written test marks and the    interview marks.
 8.5 those who are selected for Marine Engineering 
course will have to appear for a medical test at 
their own expense prior to the registration. 
9. Applications :
 9.1 Certified copies (by school principal, Grama 
Niladari, lawyer or justice of peace) of 
educational qualifications {GCE (O/L) & GCE 
(a/l)} must be attached with the application. 
applications without copies of educational 
certificates will be rejected.
 9.2 all applicants should pay a non-refundable 
examination fee as follows
 (a)  if the application is purchased from  
National apprentice &  industrial training 
authority by paying Rs. 200/=, the 
payment is Rs. 500/=.
  (b) if the application is downloaded from the 
website or obtained by any other means, 
the payment is Rs. 700.
 9.3 the Pay-in-Slip needs to be duly perfected with 
the following:
 (i) Branch code and account No: 276-1-001-
8-6351396.
 (ii) credit instruction: to the credit of National 
apprentice & industrial training authority 
collection account No. 276-1-001-8-
6351396. at People’s Bank, Katunayake.
 (iii) Name and the address of the applicant.
 9.4 applications and additional information can be 
obtained from iEt web site (www.iet.edu.lk) 
 9.5 application forms could be collected from the 
Registrar, institute of Engineering technology, 
temple Road, Katunayake on payment of 
Rs.200/= in cash, or by post by sending a 
money order for Rs.200/= with a self-addressed 
stamped envelope (size 9"x4") to Registrar, 
institute of Engineering technology, t emple 
Road, Katunayake  up to 26th May 2017. the 
above Money order should be drawn in favour 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
979
of the accountant, institute of Engineering 
Technology, payable at Katunayake Post Office.
  (telephone : 011-2252833 / 011-2252834 / 011-
2254667)
 9.6 applicants are advised not to purchase 
applications from private institutes, other than 
the National apprentice & industrial training 
authority (Naita). if an application which is 
not purchased from Naita is sent, payment of 
Rs. 700/= is compulsory.
 
 9.7 Duly filled application forms, should be sent 
under registered cover to reach the director / 
Principal, institute of Engineering technology, 
temple Road, Katunayake along with the              
Pay-in-Slip duly signed by an authorized 
officer of the Bank, on or before 02nd June 2017 
“Recruitment of Special apprentices – 2017” 
should be mentioned in the left hand corner of 
the envelope. late applications or applications 
forwarded by hand will not be accepted.
 9.8 those who have followed or are following 
diploma or degree level full time courses of 
studies in a Government technical institute or 
University are not eligible to apply.
 9.9 Receipt of the applications will not be 
acknowledged. 
 9.10 application forms also could be obtained from 
the following offices of the National Apprentice 
& industrial training authority up to 02nd June 
2017 on payment of Rs.200/= in cash.
 (i) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, 971, Sri 
Jayewardenepura Mawatha, Welikada, 
Rajagiriya. ( 011-2888782-7
 (ii) industrial Engineering t raining 
institute, 581, Galle Road, Katubedda,     
Moratuwa. 
  ( 011-2647393/011-2643356
 (iii) automobile Engineering training 
institute, 07, denister de Silva 
Mawatha, orugodawatta, Wellampitiya. 
( 011-2572977 / 011-2532182
 (iv) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 10/4, Malwatta 
Road, Badulupitiya. Badulla. 
  ( 055-2230644
 (v) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 642, Vidyala 
Road, New town, Ratnapura.  
  ( 045-2228667
 (vi) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, 27 a, open 
University Road, Nupe, Matara. 
  ( 041-2226958
 (vii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No.108/2B, 
thiwanka Bodhi Mawatha, Kandy. 
  ( 081-2201918
 (viii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, airport Road, 
anuradhapura. ( 025-2223178
 (ix) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, Negombo Road, 
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala. 
  ( 037-2223789
 (x) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 44, Somasundaram 
Road, chundikkuli, Jaffna.  
  ( 021-2222383
 (xi) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No.07, G S lane, 
Kalmunaikudi 13, Kalmunai. 
  ( 067 – 2229357
 (xii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 242, Havelock 
Road, colombo 05. 
  ( 011-2597671/011-2587258
 (xiii) National apprentice and industrial 
training authority, 326/2,Main Street, 
Kaluthara South  
  ( 034-2224239
 (xiv) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 61/5,          
Minuwangoda Road, Gampaha.  
  ( 033-2232874
 (xv) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, Molawatta 
Medagama Road,Madampe. 
  ( 032-2248250
 (xvi) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 103, irrigation 
Place, New town, Polonnaruwa.  
  ( 027-2223023

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
980
 (xvii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, Kachcheri 
complex, Monaragala.  
  ( 055-2276504
 (xviii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No.116, Kovila 
Road, Haawa Eliya, Nuwara Eliya.  
  ( 052-2223702
 (xix) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 11, temple 
Road, Mandandawala, Matale.  
  ( 066-2223173
 (xx) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 440, Kandy 
Road, Meepitiya, Kegalle. 
  ( 035-2223127
 (xxi) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No.395, Wakwella 
Road, Julgaha, Galle.  ( 091-2235628
 (xxii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 34, Mihindu 
Mawatha, tangalle.  ( 047-2241512
 (xxiii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority,Mankulam Road, 
Mulliyawalai, Mulathivu. 
  ( 021-2061012
 (xxiv) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, a9 Road, Kandy 
Road, anandapuram, Kilinochchi. 
  ( 021-2285615
 (xxv) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 103/7, Post 
Office Road, Trincomalee.  
  ( 026-2226569
 (xxvi) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, 16/1/1, New 
Kalmuni Road, Batticaloa. 
  ( 065-2228130
 (xxvii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, off Park Road , 
Vavuniya. ( 024-2224679
 (xxviii) National apprentice & industrial 
training authority, No. 952/1, old 
Moor Street, Nallayar Street, Mannar.  
( 023-2223404
10. the institute of Engineering technology will not 
be responsible for any delay or loss of applications in the 
mail. therefore, the candidates are requested to post their 
applications well ahead in time to avoid delays.
 chairman,
 National apprentice & 
 industrial training authority.
No. 971, Sri Jayewardenepura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
04–716
–––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the Post of Transport Officer in 
the ministry of Education - 2017
aPPlicatioNS are invited from Sri lankan citizens 
fulfilling qualifications indicated in this notification 
for sitting the open competitive Examination for the 
recruitment to the Post of Transport Officer that remains 
vacant in the Ministry of Education. It is hereby notified 
that the open competitive Examination to recruit for 
the Post of Transport Officer will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in august 2017 
only in colombo. 
01. Education Qualifications : 
 (a) candidates should have passed the G.c.E. 
(ordinary level) Examination in six (06) 
subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/t amil/
English language, Mathematics and two other 
subjects in one sitting.
 (b) candidates should have passed the G.c.E. 
(advanced level) Examination in all the 
subjects except the common General test (it 
is sufficient to pass 03 subjects in one sitting 
under the old syllabus).
02. Professional Qualifications pertaining to the field :
 (i) National diploma in technology awarded by 
the University of Moratuwa or Hardy institute, 
ampara ; or 
 (ii) National diploma in Engineering Sciences 
awarded by the National apprenticeship and 
industrial training authority; 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
981
 (iii) Higher National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the Ministry of Education & 
Higher Education; or
 (iv) diploma in technology awarded by the open 
University of Sri lanka; or
  Successful completion of Part i of Engineering 
Examination conducted by the institution of 
Engineers, Sri lanka.
 (v) Completion of Qualifications pertaining to 
level six of National V ocational Qualifications 
(NVQ) relevant to the field of the profession.
 (vi) Having possessed the other technical 
qualifications recognized by the Tertiary 
and V ocational Education commission as 
equivalent in all respects to the aforementioned 
qualifications in Technology, subsequent to 
making inquiring and obtaining opinions of 
the Ministry of Higher Education and the 
institutions issuing above certificates.
03. Age Limit.– age should not be below 18 years 
and above 30 years as at the closing date of applications. 
(accordingly, candidates whose birthday fall on 30-05-
1999 or before and on 30-05-1987 or after will only fulfil 
the qualification pertaining to the age).
04. Other Qualification :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri lanka.;
 (ii) Should possess an excellent moral character.
 (iii) Every candidate should be physically and 
mentally fit enough to serve or to perform their 
duties in any area of the country.
 (iv) Candidate is deemed to have fulfilled 
qualifications only if the candidate has fulfilled 
necessary qualifications mentioned under the 
paragraphs 01 and 02 in every respect by the 
date of publishing this notification calling 
applications. 
05. Salary.– Selected officers are entitled to the monthly 
salary scale (Rs. 31,040 – 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 10 x730 
10 x 750 - 57,550) of MN 3-2016 as per the Public 
administration circular No: 3/2016.
06. Scheme of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made 
on results of a written competitive examination and a 
general interview. Qualified persons will be selected at 
the general interview by calling an equivalent Number of 
candidates that are expected to be recruited according to 
the merit order of total marks scored by the candidates who 
got through the written competitive examination.
 Written examination :
Subject No Subjects Time (hours) Maximum Marks Pass Marks
01 intelligence test 01 100 40%
02 General test (technical & Subject Related test) 02 100 40%
  
Name of the examination Paper Syllabus
i. intelligence test 
 (time 01 hour)
consists of 50 multiple-choice and short answer type questions to evaluate the 
logical thinking ability and analytical skills of candidates and their ability to 
manage time. 
all the questions should be answered.
ii. General test.
(technical and subject related 
test)
(time 02 hours)
consists of questions to evaluate the technical knowledge on repairing vehicles, 
maintenance of vehicles, determining faults in vehicles, deciding vehicles that are 
not in the running condition, preparation of estimates on affixing spare parts to 
vehicles, fuel consumption of vehicles, servicing of vehicles, insuring vehicles, 
accidents and damages caused to vehicles in running of vehicles etc. that are 
applicable to the post. 
all the questions should be answered. 
Method of Examination and 
Medium of Examination:
this examination will be conducted only in colombo city in Sinhala, tamil and 
English media. (Number of examination centres will be decided on the number of 
candidates).
General interview: a general interview conducted to examine whether the information furnished in 
the application submitted by the candidates are accurate. No marks will be offered.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
982
07. conditions of Employing in the Service:
 (i) this Post is permanent and pensionable. 
contribution should be made to the Widows/
Widowers and orphans’ Pension Fund.
 (ii) Provisions of Sections 10 to 12 of the chapter 
ii of the Establishments code are applicable.
 (iii) appointments are made subject to a 
probationary period of three years and the 
departmental examination should be passed.
 (iv) language requirements as per the Public 
administration circular No: 2007/7 dated 28-
05-2007 should be completed. 
08. Identity of the Candidates.– only the candidates, 
who have submitted perfected applications in every respect 
will be called for the general interview.
First copies of all the certificates and copies that have 
been duly certified should be submitted at the interview.
any of the Following documents will only be accepted 
for guaranteeing his/her identity at the interview.
1. Valid National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
2. Valid Passport.
09. i. applications should be submitted by 
Registered Post to reach the following address 
on or before 30.05.2017. applications received 
after the due date will be rejected.
  commissioner General of Examinations,
  organization and Foreign Examination  
   Branch, 
  department of Examinations, Sri lanka
  P.o. Box 1503,
  colombo. 
 ii. a  Format of the application that should be 
submitted has been indicated at the end of this 
notification. Candidates should prepare and 
complete their applications in their own hand 
writing on a4 papers in the way that Numbers 
01 to 07 should appear on the First Page while 
Numbers 08 to 13 appear on the Second (02) 
Page and No.14 to 15 should appear on the 
third (03) Page. the title of the Examination 
appearing on the head should be mentioned 
in English language in applications that are 
submitted in Sinhala in addition to Sinhala 
language or English language in applications 
that are submitted in tamil in addition to 
tamil language in the preparation of such 
applications. 
 iii. the title, “open competitive Examination 
for the Recruitment to the Post of transport 
Officer in the Ministry of Education - 2017” 
should appear on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope enclosing the application.
 iV . Signature of the candidate both in the 
application and the admission issued for the 
Examination should have been certified. Any 
candidate applying from an institution should 
get his/her signature certified by the respective 
Head of the institution or by any other 
authorized officer and the other candidates 
should get their signature certified by either 
a Head of a government school, a Grama 
Niladhari of the division, a Justice of Peace, 
a commissioner for oaths, a lawyer, a Notary 
Public, a Commissioned Officer of the three 
Forces or a permanent Staff Grade Officer in 
the central Government or Provincial Public 
Service drawing an annual consolidated salary 
of Rs.240,360 or more.
 V . Officers already in Central Government or 
Provincial Public Service should submit 
applications through their respective Heads of 
departments.
 Vi. applications that are not consistent with the 
specimen application and applications for 
which Examination fees have not been paid 
prior to the prescribed date and uncompleted 
applications, which have not been duly 
completed will be rejected without notice. the 
candidate has to bear any damage that occurs 
due to non-completion of the application. 
it may be useful for the candidate to keep a 
photocopy of the application with him/her 
and the candidate should check whether the 
application perfected by him/her complies with 
the application indicated in the notification of 
the Examination, or else, the application may 
be rejected.
 Vii. With the presumption that only the candidates 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the 
Gazette notification have applied for the 
Examination, admissions shall be issued by 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
to the candidates, who have submitted duly 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
983
perfected applications and fall within the age 
limit indicated in the notification and who 
have mentioned the medium of language for 
sitting the Examination and the signature of 
the candidate along with the attestation of 
the signature and with the certification of the 
Head of the department if it is applicable, 
along with the receipt issued after paying the 
Examination fee on or before the closing date 
of applications. Even though an admission 
has been issued to a candidate, it should not 
be considered as an acceptance to the effect 
that he/she has fulfilled qualifications to sit the 
Examination.
 VIII. A newspaper notification on the issuance 
of admissions shall be published by the 
department of Examinations immediately 
after issuing admissions to candidates. a 
candidate, who does not receive his/her 
admission two or three days after publishing 
the notification, should make inquiries in that 
regard from the organization and Foreign 
Examinations Branch of the department of 
Examinations of Sri lanka, as described in 
the advertisement. title of the Examination, 
for which the candidate has applied, full 
name of the candidate, National identity 
card number and the address of the candidate 
should be indicated accurately in making such 
inquiries. if the candidate resides in areas 
outside colombo, it will be effective to fax a 
request letter to the Fax No. mentioned in the 
Notification including a fax Number of the 
candidate to obtain a copy of the admission 
quickly via fax along with such details of 
the candidate. in inquiring so, it will be 
useful to get ready to produce the copy of the 
application, copy of the receipt obtained after 
paying examination fees and receipt issued 
for sending the application in Registered Post 
kept in your possession, for substantiating any 
information requested by the department of 
Examinations.  
 iX. a  candidate should sit the Examination at the 
examination hall prescribed for him/her. Every 
candidate should hand over the admission, in 
which his/her signature has been attested to 
the Supervisor of the Examination on the day 
of sitting the Examination. in case a candidate 
fails to do so, he/she shall not be permitted to 
sit the Examination. candidates are subject 
to rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations on 
releasing results. 
 X. examination Results.– list of names of 
Candidates, who have fulfilled qualifications 
subsequent to sitting the Examination as per 
Para. 06 of the Gazette Notification, will be 
submitted to the Secretary of the Ministry 
of Education. in addition, results will be 
personally notified to all the candidates, who 
sit the Examination or uploaded to the Web site 
of www.results.exams.gov.lk. 
10. Providing False Information.– y our candidature 
will be cancelled if it is revealed that any information 
furnished by you in the application are false or incorrect 
before the recruitment.
action will be taken to dismiss you from the service 
subject to relevant procedures, if it is revealed that any 
information furnished by you in the application are false or 
incorrect after recruiting to the Post.
11. examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs.600/-
. the receipt drawn in favour of the candidate by paying 
the fee in cash to any Post Office/Sub Post Office of the 
island to be credited to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13 
of the commissioner General of Examinations should be 
affixed firmly within the relevant cage of the application. 
it will be useful for the candidate to retain a photocopy 
of the receipt. Refunding money or transferring the fees 
to another examination will not be permitted under any 
circumstances and money orders or stamps will not be 
entertained. 
12. the Secretary of Education reserves the right 
of deciding any matter, which is not covered by this 
notification.
13. in case of any inconsistency prevails among 
language texts of this notification published in Sinhala, 
tamil and English languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
    Sunil HettiaracHcHi,
    Secretary,
  Ministry of Education. 
 
Ministry of Education, 
isurupaya,                
Pelawatte,      
Battaramulla.
on the 21st day of april, 2017.   

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
984
                                                                                                                                                        
               (For Office Use)        
                                                                         
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN
MiniStry of education
exaMination for recruitMent of tranSport officer for 
MiniStry of education- 2017
Medium of language for the Examination :
  Sinhala  - 2
     t amil - 3
 English  - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)  
01. 1.1 Name in Full (in English Block capitals) :–––––.
  (eg: HERatH MUdiyaNSElaGE SaMaN  
  KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
1.2 Name by indicating the last name at the beginning
  and initials of the other names at the end (in   
  English Block capitals) :––––––––––.
      (eg: GUNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
1.3 Name in Full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
02. address:
 2.1  address to which the admission should be sent (in 
English Block capitals) :––––––––––.
 2.2 Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
 2.3 Private address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
03. National identity card No. :
04. 4.1 Sex:                           
   Male  - 0  
  Female   - 1   
  (Write the relevant number in the cage.)
         4.2 civil Status:         
  Married      - 1  
  Unmarried  - 2    
  (Write the relevant number in the cage.) 
05. t elephone No. :
     5.1 Official: 
  5.2 Personal: 
06.  6.1 Present Post and Place of Work :––––––––––.
    6.2 date of appointment to the said post :–––––––––.
07.  7.1 date of Birth :
   y ear :  Month :   date :                  
 
  7.2 age as at the closing date of applications:
               years :   Months : days :  
     
08. are you a Sri lankan citizen by descent or by 
registration? :––––––––––.
09. Educational and Professional Qualifications:
 9.1   Education Qualifications:
examination Year Main 
Subjects Pass
Name 
of the 
School
 9.2   Professional Qualifications:
examination Year Main 
Subjects Pass
Name 
of the 
School
10. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
11. Proficiency in English :––––––––––.
12. details of the receipt received after paying 
Examination Fees :
 12.1 Post Office, to which the Examination fee was 
paid :––––––––––.
  12.2 Receipt Number and date :––––––––––.
    12.3 amount Paid :––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt here using 
one edge of the Receipt 
13. i do hereby certify that the information furnished 
by me is true and accurate. i am aware that i will be 
disqualified for selection if the information included 
here are found to be false or inaccurate and i will 
be dismissed from the service without paying any 
compensation if such information is found to be false 
or inaccurate after the recruitment. in addition, i do 
hereby declare that i will be subject to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations pertaining to conducting the 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.04.2017
985
Examination and the decisions taken in relation to 
releasing the results. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Sgnature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––.      
    
14. attestation of the Signature of the candidate :
this is to attest that....................... submitting the 
application for the Post of Transport Officer of the Ministry 
of Education is personally known to me and he/she has 
paid the prescribed examination fees and has affixed the 
relevant receipt and placed his/her signature before me on 
the …………..day of ………… 2017.
 
   –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer Attesting.
date :––––––––––.
Full Name of the Officer Attesting :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Should be substantiated with the Official Frank)
15. Certification of the Head of the Department 
institution:
application of Mr/Mrs/Miss:…………………………… 
holding the Post of ……………… in this institution, 
forwarded by him/her for the Post of Transport Officer of 
the Ministry of Education, is recommended and forwarded. 
i do hereby certify his/her work and conduct is satisfactory 
and no disciplinary action has been taken against him/her 
or it is not intended to take such actions against him/her. 
He/she can be/cannot be released from the present Post if 
he/she is selected for this Post.
 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of 
 department/institution.
 (Official Stamp)
date :––––––––––.
04–749
  
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.