

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
825
825
wxl 1"606 - 2009 cqks 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'06'12
No. 1,606 – FRIDAY , JUNE 12, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 828
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 829
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th June, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th June,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part  I/III, III and IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,605 of 05.06.2009 were not published.
List of Medical Practitioners have been pubilshed in Part VI of this Gazette.
Note.— (i) S. B. Nawinna Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 09th, 2009.
(ii) Animal Welfare Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
of February 06th, 2009.
(iii) National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 06th, 2009.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
826
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
827
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
828
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  ENVIRONMENT  AND  NATURAL  RESOURCES
Post of Deputy Director (Environment Pollution Management)
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who possess the following qualifications for the post of Deputy Director
(Environment Pollution Management) of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service - Class II - Grade I.
(1) Educational and other qualifications :
A degree from a recognized University in any one of the following fields :–
i. Special Degree in Chemistry, with co-subjects Physics or Maths ; OR
ii. Special Degree in Physics, with co-subjects Chemistry or Maths ; OR
iii. General Degree in Physics, Maths or Chemistry with a 1st or 2nd Class ;  AND
Post Graduate Degree in relation to environmental activities ; AND
10 years service in the Sri Lanka Scientific Service II/II with completion of the Efficiency Bar Examination.
(2) Salary Scale: As per PA Circular 06/2006.
Rs. 22, 935-10 x 645-8 x 790- 17x1050- Rs. 53,555 (applicable to Grade III, II and I.)
Accordingly a salary point of Rs. 30,175 up to Rs. 35,705 will be applicable to the Post of Deputy Director.
(3) Age Limit.– Below 45 years as at 12th June, 2009 (The age limit will not applicable for employees who are already in the
Public Service).
(4) Scheme of Recruitment: Selections will be made from the Officers of Sri Lanka Scientific Service by a structural interview
conducted by an Interview Board appointed by Public Service Commission. Marks will be allocated according to the following mark ing
scheme approved by the Public Service Commission:
i. For any additional educational qualifications- maximum 25 marks
(In addition to basic qualification)
Post Graduate Diploma - 15 marks
Post Graduate degree - 20 marks
Doctorate - 25 marks
ii. Service Experience - maximum 30 marks
(03 marks for every year served above 10 years)
iii. Academic Studies and Publications (04 marks for each) - maximum 20 marks
iv. Computer literacy and training in the related discipline - maximum 15 marks
(04 marks per training course of over 06 months)
v. Performance at the Interview -  maximum 10 marks
(5) Conditions of Employment:
i. This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected Officer should make contribution to Widows and Orphans/Widower
and Orphans Pensions Scheme.
ii. Conditions in Section 10-12 in the Chapter 11 of Establishment Code will apply.
(6) Applications along with the Bio-data attaching details on educational and professional qualifications, experience, present
post and salary scale, research work done, desitations and publications should be sent to the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs, Independence Square, Colombo 7 on or before 10th July, 2009 “Post of Deputy Director (Environment Pollution
Management)” should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
829
(7) Candidates who are already in the Public Service should submit their applications through the respective Heads of
Departments.
In the event, any information given in the application is found to be false prior to the appointment, his/her candidature will be
cancelled. If such detection is made after the appointment, action will be initiated to dismiss him/her from the service.
By order of Public Service Commission,
D. DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 7,
18th May, 2009.
06-148
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of Engineers to the Sri Lanka Engineering Service - 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the filling of vacancies existing in the posts of Civil, Mechanical , and
Electrical Engineers of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service as per order of the Public Service Commission dated 08.04.2009.
02. The applications should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on a paper size
A4 using both sides and they should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Examination
Department of Sri Lanka, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 10.07.2009. The top left corner of the envelope in which the appl ication
is enclosed, should bear clearly the title "Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of Engineers to the Sri Lanka Engineering Service
-2009".
N. B.– (i). Applications which do not conform to the specimen will be rejected.
Note : No complaint that an application or a letter in respect of such applications have been lost or delayed in the post will be
considered. The candidates should bear any loss which may occur due to the delay in applying, until the closing date
of applications.
(ii) The officers in the Public Service or in the Provincial Public Service should forward their application through the
respective heads of their organizations.
03. The Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs has the power to postpone or cancel this
examination subject to the instructions issued by the Public Service Commission.
04. Qualifications : A candidate appearing at this examination,
i. should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
ii. should be of excellent moral character and sound constitution ;
iii. should be over 21 years of age and below 35 years of age on the closing date of applications. (The maximum age limit
will not be applicable for those who are presently serving in the Public Service or the Provincial Public Service and
have obtained the qualifications as stipulated in Sub section 04 IV).
iv. (a) should possess a four year full time Degree in Bachelor of Science in Engineering from a relevant Engineering
discipline awarded from a University of Sri Lanka ; or

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
830
(b) should have fully completed and passed all parts of the examination relevant to the prescribed Engineering
Discipline held by the Institution of the Engineers of Sri Lanka by which the candidate qualifies for the
Associate Membership of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka ; or
(c) should have fully completed and passed all parts of the Engineering Council Examination of the United
Kingdom or its affiliated institution in the prescribed relevant Engineering Disciplines which fulfils the academic
requirements recommended by the Engineering Council of the United Kingdom to obtain the Chartered Status
of an Engineer ; or
(d) should have obtained an Engineering Degree, equivalent to the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering,
offered by any other University or an Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission by which
the candidate qualifies for the Associate Membership of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka ; or
(e) should have obtained a Corporate Membership or a Fellow Membership from a recognized Engineering Institution
in the prescribed Engineering Disciplines.
Note : The required qualification as stipulated above should be successfully completed in every respect, by the closing date
of applications.
05. Monthly salary scale.– The post carries a monthly salary scale of Rs.22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8x790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555 with
Efficiency Bars at the relevant salary steps.
06.  Terms of Engagement and General Conditions of Service  :
i. This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected candidates will be required to contribute to the "Widows and
Orphans/Widowers and Orphans Pension Fund". The appointment will be subject to a probation period of three years.
ii. The selected candidates will be appointed to posts in the Sri Lanka Engineering Service by the Public Service Commission
and such appointees are subject to service in the Public Service as well as in the Provincial Public Service.
iii. The selected candidates should be prepared to serve in any part of the Island in which they are called upon to serve.
iv. The appointment of any candidate who fails to assume duties of the appointed post on the prescribed date and/or rejects
or avoids assuming duties in the post or the area appointed, may be cancelled.
v. Appointments will be made subject to the general conditions governing appointments in the Public Service and also
subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Minute on the Sri Lanka Engineering Service published in the Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 509/12 dated 07th  June 1988, and any amendments
made or to be made hereafter to the aforesaid Minute.
07. Special Service Conditions of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service  :
i. A candidate with full professional qualifications will be placed on the salary step of Rs. 26,160 (Monthly) with effect
from the date of appointment.
ii. Obtaining full professional qualifications is mandatory for promotion from the recruitment grade to the next higher
grade.
08.  Scheme of examination :
i. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.
ii. A candidate can sit the examination in the language in which he/she has passed the qualifying examination as stipulated
in Section 04 (iv).
iii. A candidate who has passed the qualifying examination (as stipulated in Section 04 (iv)) in a language different from an
official language can sit the examination in one of the official languages or in English.
iv. A candidate will not be permitted to change the language of the examination stated in the application.
09. Method of applying :
i. The application should be in the language in which the candidate sits the examination. Application should be prepared
in such a way that Heading Nos. 1.0 to 4.6 appears on the first page, 5.0 to 9.0 on the second page and the remaining
10.0 to 11.0 on the third page ; and should be filled clearly in the candidate's own handwriting. The candidate should

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
831
check whether the perfected application is in conformity with the specimen application form. Applications with
incomplete information and not in compliance with the specimen form of the application will be rejected without
notice. Applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the application.
ii. The applicant's specimen signature on the  application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney at Law, a Public Notary, a Commissioned Officer in the Armed
Forces of Sri Lanka, an Officer holding a gazetted post in the Sri Lanka Police Service or an officer holding a permanent
post of the Government at drawing a basic annual salary of more than Rs.237,060.
iii. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
iv. As soon as admission cards are issued to applicants, a notice to that effect will be published in the newspapers by the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. A candidate who does not receive his/her admission card even after 03 days
from the aforesaid notice, should immediately notify the Commissioner General of Examinatons, The Department of
Examination of Sri Lanka, Isurupaya Battaramulla (Telegraphic address  "Exams" Colombo) with the following particulars.
(a) Name of Examination ;
(b) Full name of the candidate ;
(c) Address ;
(d) Certified copies of the application and of the payment receipt kept in the applicant's possession ;
(e) Date of posting the application and the Registration Number ;
(f)  In case of applicants outside Colombo, the address to which the admission card should be sent ;
10. Examination Fees.– The examination fee will be Rs.300. Examination fees should be paid before closing date of  applications
at any District/Divisional Secretary's office to the credit of Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20 13. Receipt obtained from the Distric t/
Divisional Secretary's Office should be firmly pasted along an edge in the relevant cage of the application. This fee will not be refunded.
Applications sent without making in due payment of the examination fees as stipulated above will be rejected. The candidate is advised
to keep a photocopy of the  payment receipt.
11. The date of examination.– The examination will be held only in Colombo on or before the month of September 2009.
12. If the number of applications received are less than the number of vacancies to be filled, the Public Service Commission has
the power to refrain from holding the examination and to select the suitable candidates on the results of an interview held for the purpose
of examining the qualifications of the applicants.
13. Type of the Examination.– This Competitive Examination will be held in order to determine a merit order of the engineers
who will be applying for the posts of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service having fulfilled the qualifications as stipulated in th e section
04(iv). Therefore, the above examination is confined to an aptitude test which carries 100% marks. The question paper will be o f the
Multiple - choice type with a duration of 1 and 1/2 hours. The merit order of the candidates will be determined on the order of the marks
scored by the candidates in the above examination.
14. Admission to the examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examination will issue admission cards to all candidates whose applications have been
received. A candidate presenting himself for the examination must produce his/her admission card, on which his/her
specimen signature has been attested, to the supervisor of the examination centre. A candidate who fails to produce his/
her admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination centre assigned to him/her. Every candidate should hand over the
admission card to the Supervisor of the examination hall, on the first day of the examination. A set of rules to be followed
by all candidates is published in this Gazette. Candidates are be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examination in conducting this examination. Candidates are liable to be subjected to a punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination for breach of these rules.
Note : Admissions cards are issued on the assumption that the candidates have fulfilled all the requisite qualifications stipulated
in this notice. The issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be treated as a proof that he or she has fulfilled
the requisite qualifications to sit the examination.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
832
15. Identification of candidates.– A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction
of the Invigilator of the Examination. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid Passport
16. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable  to be cancelled
at any stage prior to or during or after the examination. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be intentionally false
or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable to be dismissed from the public Service.
17. Method of Selection for appointments .– A prescribed in the Section 13, candidates who have scored highest marks shall be
summoned for an interview subject to the provisions stipulated below.
(a) A number of candidates equivalent to twice the number of vacancies will be called for the interview.
(b) Certificates of the candidates will be examined at an interview held by an interview board approved by the Public
Service Commission.
(c) Marks will not be allocated at the interview.
(d) If several candidates have obtained the same marks, an appropriate decision will be taken by the Public Service
Commission and that decision shall be final.
18. The number of appointees and the effective date of the appointment will be determined by the Public Service Commission.
The Public Service Commission has the power to refrain from filling any or all of the vacancies and to take decisions regarding any matters
not provided for in this notification.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevails.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
D. DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Engineering Service Division,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
12th May, 2009.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
For Office use only
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE SRI LANKA ENGINEERING SERVICE – 2009
Language Media of Examination as per Section 08 :
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil- 3, English- 4)
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials at the end (in English Block Capitals) Mr./Mrs./Miss. e.g. SILV A, A. B. :––––––––––.
1.2 Names denoted by Initials (in English Block Capitals) :––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in the language of your National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address (in English Block Capitals) :––––––––––.
2.2 Telephone Numbers : Fixed :––––––––––.
Mobile :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
833
3.0 Category applied for (Civil -1, Machanical - 2, Electrical - 3)
4.0 4.1 Ethnic Group (Sinhala - 1, Tamil -2 Indian Tamil -3 Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
4.2 Gender group (Male - 0, Female - 1):
4.3 Marital Status (Single -1 ,Married - 2) :
4.4 National Identity Card No.
4.5 Date of Birth :  year : Month : Date :
4.6 Age as at the closing date of application : Years : Months : Days:
5.0 5.1 Educational Qualifications :-
i. Effective date of the degree :––––––––––.
ii. University/Institution :––––––––––.
iii. Registration Number  :––––––––––.
iv. Year of completion of the Degree :––––––––––.
v. Subjects of the Final Year  :––––––––––.
vi. Language in which the candidate sat the Examination :––––––––––.
5.2 Professional Qaulifications, if any ( e. g. MICE, MIE) :––––––––––.
6.0 Particulars of the present post and posts held previously, if any (date of entry to the service, date of resignation and rea sons for
resignation should be mentioned) :
6.1 Post :––––––––––.
6.2 Department/Institution :––––––––––.
6.3 Date of Appointment :––––––––––.
6.4 Whether permanent/Pensionable/non-pensionable/temporary :––––––––––.
6.5 Whether comfirmed in the post :––––––––––.
6.6 Salary scale of the post and present salary :––––––––––.
6.7 Particulars of the posts held previously :––––––––––.
7.0 Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for a criminal offence? If so, furnish particulars of such conviction and pen alty
imposed :––––––––––.
8.0 Please paste the receipt along  one side so as not be detached (It will be usefull to keep a photocopy with the candidates) :
Number of the Receipt :––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
9.0 Declaration of the application :
I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particu lars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am laible to disqualify if detected before Selection ; to dismissal with out
compensation, if detected after appointment. Furthemore, I hereby state that I am bound by all rules and regulations of this
examination imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination.
––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.06.2009
834
10. Attestation of Signature
I hereby certify that (name in full) ...................... who submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on............................
––––––––––––,
(Signature of the officer attesting the signature)
Date :––––––––––.
Full Name of the Officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the official Stamp)
11. Report of the Head of Department if the applicant is in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service :
I hereby certify that (name in full)................. who submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed his/her
signature in my presence on......................
I certify that the particulars given in paragraph 09 above are correct and his/her work and conduct are............... He/she can be released
from the present post.
––––––––––––,
(Signature of the Head of Department)
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Officer attesting the Signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the official Stamp)
06-188
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.