

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2413$44 - 2024 foieïn¾ ui 05 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2024'12'05
No. 2413/44  -  Thursday,  december  05 ,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - G 43197 - 06 (12/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
DEPARTmENT  Of GOvERNmENT  INfORmATION
Issuance of Official Media Accreditations for the year 2025
IT is the responsibility of a government to ensure a free and unhindered environment for media personnel and media institutions 
to enable them to perform their duty without restrictions. In compliance with this policy, the department of Government 
Information committed in creating a better and quality media culture in sri Lanka, henceforth would issue media accreditations 
to journalists with the intention of assisting them to engage in their career while enriching the standards of the profession 
and protecting the dignity of the trade.   
Persons who gather news and information, write, edit and disseminate them over electronic, print or web media to 
all kinds of receivers are considered as journalists for the purpose of issuance of media accreditations. media accreditations 
will be issued only to such professional media personnel who are active in the trade.
under this, media accreditations will not be issued for the following professionals.
 I. Persons who hold the posts that are not relevant to the journalism directly, such as management assistants or 
coordinators served in the media institutions.
	 II.	 Professionals	 who	engaged	in	publicity	work	in	media	firms,	commercials	and	video	production	institutions,	
and	the	firms	where	news	and	current	affairs	do	not	report.
 III. artistes engaged in performing art sectors such as cinema, theater and tele drama.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.12.2024
2a
01. Common instructions for the recommendation of applications for Media Accreditations.
	 I.	 It	 is	the	responsibility	of	the	heads	of	all	printed,	electronic,	and	web	media	firms	and	authorized	officer	to	
recommend	only	the	applications	submitted	by	the	professional	journalists	served	in	their	firms	in	obtaining	
this media accreditation.
	 II.	 If	 any	authorized	officer	will	be	nominated	to	recommend	the	applications	relevant	to	journalists/media	
professionals,	the	information	of	the	said	officer	including	the	name	of	the	authorized	officer,	National	Identity	
Card	number,	designation,	official	telephone	number,	specimen	signature,	and	the	official	seal,	could	be	sent	
to the media accreditation unit of the department of Government Information at the beginning itself of the 
year 2025, it will be helpful for smooth functioning of issuance of the media accreditation. If such a nominated 
officer	should	be	changed	for	any	reason,	the	details	of	the	new	officer	should	be	sent	as	earliest	possible.
 III. The applications submitted by the trainees who are not the journalists/ media professionals of your media 
institution, should not be recommended. (Trainees are not issued media accreditations for whatever reason).
 IV . The details of the journalists/media professionals who submit the applications in your institution should be 
furnished in a table prepared according to the following format (Table 01), and the relevant details should be 
confirmed	under	the	letterhead	of	your	institution	and	sent	with	a	covering	letter	with	the	signature	and	the	
official	seal	of	the	head	of	the	institution	or	authorized	officer	indicating	his/her	recommendation	for	issuance	
of media accreditation. The applications that are not in a prescribed format will be rejected.
Serial 
No.
Name National Identity 
Card Number
Designation Division 
Served
                   (Table 1)
	 V.	 The	 head	of	the	relevant	media	institution	or	his/her	authorized	officer	should	send	a	covering	letter	with	her/his	
signature	placing	the	official	seal	confirming	the	relevant	information	and	recommending	the	issuance	of	media	
accreditation for them under the letterhead of the institution, indicating the details of provincial journalists who 
submit the applications through your institution as per the table (2). The applications that are not in a prescribed 
format will be rejected. Further, the relevant details should be submitted separately in district wise. In addition, 
the soft copy of the name list should be sent to the e- mail address media.accre@gmail.com. (The head of the 
media	institution	or	his/her	authorized	officers	should	draw	attention	to	include	only	the	journalists	to	this	name	
list who provide the reports actively at present.)
Serial No Name of the 
Provincial 
Journalist
National 
Identity 
Card Num-
ber
Permanent 
Address
Phone Number / 
Numbers of the 
Journalist
District and 
the Area 
Covered by the 
Journalist
                         (Table 02)

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.12.2024
3a
 VI. The full responsibility for the name list and the details included therein to obtain media accreditation should 
be	assigned	to	the	head	of	the	media	institution	or	his/her	authorized	officers	who	endorsed	the	name	list	and	
relevant details. every page of the letter including the request to obtain media accreditation should be endorsed 
and	placed	the	seal	by	the	respective	officer.	
	 VII.	 In	 addition	to	the	over	all	name	list,	each	application	should	be	separately	endorsed	and	placed	the	official	seal	
by	the	head	of	the	media	institution	or	his/her	authorized	officer.
 VIII. This media accreditation is issued once per year. The requests made by the media institution from time to time 
will not be considered and such requests will be rejected.  
 IX. It is the responsibility of the head of the media institution to hand over the media accreditation of a journalist 
who has been dismissed from the service of the media institution or who has resigned from the post to the 
director General of the Government Information. a  new media accreditation will not be issued to another 
person appointed for such dismissed/resigned person without handing over the said media accreditation, and 
the	head	of	the	media	institution	or	his/her	authorized	officers	should	be	responsible	for	not	recommending	
such an application for a new media accreditation. 
 X. The director General of Government Information remains the right to cancel the relevant media accreditation 
if any complaints have been received regarding the misusing of this media accreditation for achieving personal 
objectives after an investigation. In such an instance, it is the responsibility of the head of the media institution 
or	his/her	authorized	officers	who	has	recommended	the	issuance	of	media	accreditation	to	hand	over	the	said	
media accreditation to the department of Government Information within two days upon the notice of the 
Director	General	of	Government	Information	or	his/her	authorized	representative.
02. Basic matters that should be attentive by the applicants when apply for a Media Accreditation and classification 
of media Accreditation
	 I.	 The	 official	media	accreditation	will	be	issued	for	the	year	2025	according	to	the	below	mentioned	criteria	
relevant	to	each	type	of	media	accreditation	under	the	following	classification.	When	submitting	the	applications,	
special attention should be drawn by the applicants and those who recommend the media accreditation in respect 
of these criteria.
a. Journalist
b. Provincial Journalist
c. Freelance Journalist
d. Foreign Journalists (Temporary)
e. media administrator
F. Technical
G. media services
	 II.	 A 	journalist	/	professional	media	person	who	receives	an	official	media	accreditation	not	exceeding	the	valid	
period	for	a	media	firm,	has	resigned/has	been	removed	from	a	media	institution	mentioned	in	the	media	
accreditation,	a	new	media	accreditation	will	only	be	issued	to	work	in	another	media	firm	or	to	work	as	a	
freelance	journalist	after	handing	over	the	official	media	accreditation	to	the	Director	General	of	Government	
Information. such a journalist/a professional media person should draw attention in that respect in submitting 
the application for media accreditation.
	 III.	 A 	journalist/a	professional	media	person	who	is	serving	in	a	recognized	media	institution	at	least	more	than	06	
months,	should	only	apply	for	this	official	media	accreditation.	(Media	Accreditations	are	not	issued	for	trainees). 
	 IV.	 All	 the	applicants	should	submit	their	applications	along	with	a	copy	of	the	official	identity	card	and	a	copy	of	
the National Identity card or valid passport or valid driving license endorsed by placing the signature of the 
head	of	the	department	with	his	name	and	designation	and	placing	his	official	seal	with	the	name	of	the	media	
institution.	(When	necessary,	the	power	of	examining	the	official	identity	card	of	an	applicant	remains	with	the	
Director	General	of	Government	Information	or	his/her	authorized	representative.)

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.12.2024
4a
	 V.	 On	 the	occasion	of	failure	to	submit	the	office	identity	card,	a	copy	of	the	appointment	letter	certified	by	the	
head	of	the	institution,	placing	an	official	seal	comprising	his	signature,	name,	designation,	and	the	name	of	
the media institution, should be submitted.
 VI. all the parts of the application should be written in clear handwriting or printed correctly. The unclear or 
incomplete  applications are rejected without any acknowledgment, and correctly completed applications should 
be resubmitted if it is necessary to obtain media accreditations.
	 VII.	 Two	 clear	colour	photographs,	1"x1.5"	(2.6cm	x	3.7cm)	in	size,	without	editing	in	any	manner	taken	within	one	
calendar month to the date of applying should be submitted with the application. One of them should be properly 
affixed	in	the	relevant	cage	of	the	application.	The	other	one	enclosed	in	an	envelope	in	safe	manner	should	be	
annexed	with	the	application.	The	applications	with	the	photos	not	in	the	expected	quality	as	required	by	the	
department will be rejected by the media accreditation unit of the department of Government Information. In 
addition,	the	applications	with	an	unclear	photo	and	not	in	the	prescribed	size	will	also	be	rejected.
	 VIII.	 Honorific	 epithets	and	educational	qualifications	will	not	be	included	in	the	media	accreditation.	The	name	of	
the journalist and the profession will only be indicated in the media accreditation.
 IX. The media accreditations will not be issued under anonymous names for the journalists who write news or 
feature articles /copies of the programs and who wish to remain anonymous.
 X. having drawn attention to the matters mentioned in the section 03, in forwarding applications for obtaining the 
media accreditation, the applicant should be responsible to submit only the application in a prescribed format 
identifying the relevant type of media accreditation. The applications that are not in the prescribed format, will 
be rejected.  
03. The criteria for issuance of each type of media accreditation and the manner in which submitting the application 
and additional documents need to be submitted.
A. Journalist
	 I.	 Staff		 journalists		 attached		 to	Media	Institutions	in	the	Print	(Newspaper,	Magazine	and	Periodical)	
Electronic	(television	and	Radio),	and	Web	Media	sectors	will	be	issued	the	media	accreditations	under	
this category - Journalist.
 II. The photo of the applicant for the media accreditation under this type should be taken according to section 
02 VII of the Gazette	Notification	and	submitted	along	with	the	application.
 III. Following conditions are applied for each type of media institutions.
  a. Newspaper, Magazine and Periodicals 
	The	copies	of	the	publications	of	the	previous	six	(06)	months	from	the	date	of	applying	for	
the	media	accreditation	(only	as	required)	and	the	registration	certificate	of	the	Department	
of	National	Archives	should	be	submitted	to	confirm	the	newspaper,	magazine	and	periodical	
that the media accreditation applied for, is published continuously.
	The	registration	certificate	of	the	Sri	Lanka	Press	Board	should	be	submitted	for	all	the	
newspaper,	magazine	and	periodicals	that	the	media	accreditations	are	applied.
	supplementary publications issued along with a certain newspaper, are not considered as 
separate newspapers and such applications should be submitted only by the name of the main 
newspaper.  (media accreditations are issued by the name of the main newspaper but not by 
the name of the supplements.)

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.12.2024
5a
	 Maximum	03	media	accreditations	 are	issued	for	monthly	published	periodicals	 while	
maximum	02	media	accreditations	are	issued	periodicals	published	once	per	02	months.	
Maximum	01	media	accreditation	is	issued	for	the	periodicals	published	once	per	03	months.	
media accreditations are not issued for the 06 months or annually published periodicals/
magazines.
	 media accreditations are not issued for the professionals who publish the handbooks in the 
field	of	different	subjects	or	publications	outside	the	news	and	current	affairs.
b. Electronic (radio and television) media institutions.
	 The radio and television media institutes should forward their applications for media 
accreditation along with the copies of the licenses issued by the sri Lanka Telecommunication 
regulation commission and the ministry in charge of the subject of mass media issued for 
the	electronic	telecast	services	with	the	certification	of	the	staff	officer	of	the	media	institution	
by	placing	his	name,	signature,	and	official	seal.
	 A	maximum	of	10	media	accreditations	are	issued	only	to	the	journalists	in	the	news	division	of	
the cable TV Institutes, s atellite Institutes, and Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) Institutes 
that	telecast	a	minimum	of	5	news	and	current	affair	programs	per	week.	Further,	the	relevant	
institutes should forward the details of the programs on their channels.
	 Further, the cable TV Institutes, satellite Institutes, and Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) 
Institutes that apply for media accreditation should forward their applications along with 
copies of the licenses issued by the sri Lanka Telecommunication regulation commission 
and the ministry in charge of the subject of mass media issued for the electronic telecast 
services	endorsed	by	the	staff	officer	of	the	media	institution	by	placing	his	name,	signature,	
and	official	seal.
c. Web Media Institutes
	 This media accreditation will be issued only to journalists of websites where their basic 
function is the dissemination of news.
	 media accreditations will be issued only to the journalists who serve on websites registered 
for the y ear 2025 in the ministry in charge of the subject of mass media and report news and 
current	affairs.	(Media	accreditations	will	not	be	issued	for	posts	such	as	web	chairperson	/	
website	controller/	Governor/	administrative	director)	(A	copy	of	the	registration	certificate	
issued by the ministry in charge the subject of mass media should be forwarded with the 
application.) 
	 all the news websites that apply for media accreditation should obtain the business registration 
as	a	media	institute.	(When	applying	for	media	accreditation,	a	copy	of	the	business	registration	
certificate	should	be	forwarded	by	certifying	a	staff	officer	of	the	institute	with	his	name,	his	
signature,	and	his	official	seal.)	
	 In the issuance of media accreditation, special attention should be drawn to the activeness of 
the website, objectives and number of subscribers, daily updating, and other relevant matters.
	 Only the web sites that are being updated continuously on a daily basis for a minimum period 
of	six	months	will	be	eligible	for	media	accreditations.	A	minimum	of	50%	of	the	content	of	
such	websites	should	specifically	be	news	and	current	affairs.
	 A	maximum	of	two	Media	Accreditations	per	each	language	will	be	issued	for	websites.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.12.2024
6a
	 When	it	is	felt	that	further	references	are	necessary	before	issuing	Media	Accreditations	to	web	
journalists, the decision whether to issue media accreditations to such web journalists will be 
taken only after obtaining reports from the relevant parties with regard to such applications.
	 The media accreditations will not be issued to the professionals attached to the websites of 
public institutions, including ministries, departments, and Government-associated institutes.
d. Foreign Media Institutions
	 Media	Accreditations	will	be	issued	to	residential	representatives	/	staff	reporters	who	have	
been	assigned	by	internationally	recognized	Media	Institutions	and	serve	in	the	relevant	media	
institute permanently in sri Lanka.
	 media accreditations will be issued to such journalists only after the information furnished 
by	them	are	verified	from	the	relevant	foreign	media	institution.
	 It is compulsory for the applicant to submit his or her letter of employment issued by the head 
of his or her foreign media employer.
	 If the need arises that further references are necessary, before issuing media accreditations 
to any journalist, the decision to issue media accreditation to such journalists will be made 
only after obtaining reports from the relevant parties with regard to such applications.
B. Provincial Journalists
	 I.	 Except	the	Provincial	journalists	who	have	been	issued	media	accreditation	with	a	validity	period	up	to	31st	
december 2025, only other provincial journalists should forward their applications for media accreditation 
for the y ear 2025.
	 II.	 The	 media	accreditations	for	journalists	of	web	media	institutes	will	be	issued	subject	to	the	maximum	
media accreditations issued to the web media institutes.
 III. The applications that will be forwarded to obtain this type of media accreditation, the photo of the relevant 
applicant taken according to the section 02. VII of the Gazette	notifications	should	be	forwarded.
	 IV.	 When	 submitting	applications,	it	should	be	written	as	“Provincial	Media	Accreditation”	on	top	left-hand	
corner of the envelope.
C. freelance Journalist
 I. The applicant should have a minimum period of one-year continuous service as a Freelance Journalist in 
a	nationally	recognized	electronic	or	print	media	institution.
 II.  along with the application submitted by freelance journalists, a letter from at least one of the media 
institutions in a letterhead of the relevant institution should be forwarded indicating that he or she provides 
news,	feature	articles	and	current	affairs	to	the	relevant	institution	with	the	certification	of	the	head	of	the	
institution	or	his	authorized	representative	with	his	signature	and	official	seal.	
	 III.	 In	 order	to	confirm,	that	the	applicant	is	publishing	news	reports	/	current	affairs	articles	or	program	features	
/ entertainment program, the photographs of not less than 12 photocopies or cds containing published 
articles	under	the	applicant’s	name	within	the	last	six	months	from	the	date	of	submission	of	the	application,	
should be presented.
 IV . The media accreditations for freelance journalists of web media institutes will be issued subject to the 
maximum	media	accreditations	issued	to	the	web	media	institutes.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.12.2024
7a
 V . The applications that will be forwarded to obtain this type of media accreditation, the photo of the relevant 
applicant taken according to the section 02. VII of the Gazette	Notifications	should	be	forwarded.
D. Foreign Journalist- Temporary
 I. Temporary media accreditations will be issued to foreign journalists who arrive in sri Lanka to cover 
special	events	to	compile	articles	and	to	do	documentary	programs	that	are	of	news	and	current	affairs	
value.
 II. The applicant should submit letter of employment issued by the head of the foreign media institution and 
the	approval	letter	issued	by	the	Ministry	of	Foreign	affairs	with	the	application.
 III. The applicant should submit his/her application along with the valid passport and photocopy of the page 
which includes the personal information of the Passport holder. 
 IV . The applications that will be forwarded to obtain this type of media accreditation, the photo of the relevant 
applicant taken according to the section 02. VII of the Gazette	 Notifications	should	be	forwarded.	The	photo	
of the passport cannot be submitted for this purpose.
E. media Administrator
	 I.	 A 	maximum	of	three	Media	Accreditations	will	be	issued	for	a	maximum	of	three	officers	in	one	media	
institution	 who	are	directly	involved	in	the	media	administration	 of	a	nationally	 recognized	 media	
organization.
	 II.	 Media	 Accreditations	will	not	be	issued	to	Marketing	Development	Directors	/	Managers	/	Welfare	officers	
and others who engage in sales promotion sectors of media Institutions.
 III. The applications that will be forwarded to obtain this type of media accreditation, the photo of the relevant 
applicant taken according to the section 02. VII of the Gazette	notifications	should	be	forwarded.
F. Technical
 I. media accreditation under the category ‘Technical’ will be issued to electronic media technicians who 
directly	engage	in	field	media	activities.
 II. The applications that will be forwarded to obtain this type of media accreditation, the photo of the relevant 
applicant taken according to the section 02. VII of the Gazette	notifications	should	be	forwarded.
G. media Services
 
 I. media accreditations under the category ‘media services’ will be issued to those who involve in media 
activities	that	are	directly	connected	with	outdoor	media	coverage	for	News	and	Current	Affairs	Units	of	
media institutions.
 II. The applications that will be forwarded to obtain this type of media accreditation, the photo of the relevant 
applicant taken according to the section 02. VII of the Gazette	notifications	should	be	forwarded.
04. General Conditions
 I. media accreditations should be used only for media activities. If it is abused or used ignoring media ethics, the 
director-General of Government Information remains the powers to recall or cancel such media accreditations.
 II. applications for media accreditations for the y ear 2025 will be accepted until march 31, 2025.  applications 
received after the deadline and the incomplete applications will be rejected.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.12.2024
8a
	 III.	 Applications	 could	be	downloaded	from	www.dgi.gov.lk	or	www.	news.lk	and	the	duly	filled	applications	could	
either be sent under the registered post to the address director-General, department of Government Information, 
No.163, Kirulapone road, colombo 5 or handed over to the above address.
 IV . In requesting a new media accreditation for a misplaced media accreditation, a copy of the police complaint 
lodged in respect of misplacing media accreditation, should be forwarded with the application.
	 V.	 When	 complaints	are	received	about	abusing	the	media	accreditation	in	pursuing	personal	objectives,	the	
director-General of Information remains the absolute authority to and cancel the media accreditations.
	 VI.	 The	 authority	in	making	the	final	decision	with	regard	to	the	issuance	of	media	accreditations	and	effecting	
changes as required to the above terms and conditions and provisions is vested in the director-General of the 
department of Government Information.
 H.	S.	K.	J.	Bandara, 
 director General of Government Information.
depertment of Government Information,
colombo 05,
05th december, 2024.
eOG 12-0057
PrINTed a T The deP ar TmeNT OF GOVerNmeNT PrINTING,  srI LaNKa.