

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs.  12.25                                                                                                                 Postage  : Rs.    5.25
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of   July  27 ,  2 001
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
———————————
INLAND  REVENUE  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,   No.  8  OF  2001
———————————
———————————
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
[Certified on 24th July, 2001]

<!-- page 2 -->

1Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2001
2—CM 001681— 1,575 (2001/10)
[Certified on 24th July, 2001]
L.D.—O. 23/2001.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  INLAND  REVENUE  ACT , NO . 38 OF  2000
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue
(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2001.
2. Section 8 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000
(hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment”) is hereby
amended in paragraph (a) of that section as follows :—
(1) in sub-paragraph (lxxiii) of that paragraph by the
substitution for the words and figures “Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982.”, of the words and figures
“Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982; ”;
(2) by the addition at the end of that paragraph of the
following sub-paragraph :—
“(lxxiv) the European Investment Bank ;”.
3. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
in paragraph (f) of subsection (1) of that section, by the
substitution, for the words “Red Cross or the World
Conservation Union ; ”, of the words “Red Cross, the World
Conservation Union or the European Investment Bank ;”.
4. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) of
that section, of the following new paragraph :—
“(aa) the profits and income earned by a resident company
or partnership carrying on or exercising any trade,
business, profession or vocation, in foreign currency,
in any year of assessment commencing on or after
April 1, 2001, in respect of services rendered by that
Short  title.
Amendment of
section 8 of Act
No. 38 of 2000.
Amendment of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 15 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8  of 2001
company or partnership in that year of assessment
outside Sri Lanka (including services relating to any
construction project) in the course of carrying on or
exercising such trade, business, profession or
vocation, if such profits and income (less any such
amount expended by that company or partnership
outside Sri Lanka as is considered by the
Commissioner-General to be reasonable expenses)
are remitted to Sri Lanka through a bank;”.
5. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 18, and shall have effect as section
18
A  of the principal enactment :—
18A . (1) The profits and income within the
meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (other
than profits and income from the sale of capital
assets) of any company from any specified
undertaking referred to in subsection (2), which
commences business on or after April 1, 2001,
shall be exempt from income tax for such period
not exceeding twenty years as may be prescribed
by regulation, having regard to the nature of the
undertaking and the investment made in the
undertaking, such period of exemption being
reckoned from the commencement of the year
of assessment in which such undertaking
commences to carry on business.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall
apply to a company which is approved by the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette as
being essential for the economic development
of the country, being a company which is
engaged only in carrying on an undertaking for
developing or maintaining or operating or
developing, maintaining and operating, an
infrastructure facility.
Insertion of
section 18A  in the
principal
enactment.
‘Exemption
from income
tax of the
profits and
income of
certain
companies
providing
infrastructure
facilities.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2001
(3) In this section, “infrastructure facility”
means a warehouse, store, industrial park,
sanitation or solid waste management system
or a project for the supply of electricity, water
or urban housing.’.
6. The following new section is hereby
inserted immediately after section 20, and shall
have effect as section 20
A  of the principal
enactment :—
20A  (1) Such part of the profits and income
within the meaning of paragraph (a) of section
3 as consists of export profits and income of
any person or partnership, for every year of
assessment commencing on or after April 1,
2001 but prior to April 1, 2004, from any under-
taking for the export of such categories of
handicrafts as may be specified by the Minister
by Order published in the Gazette, having regard
to the need to encourage the export market for
handicrafts and which conforming to such
standards of manufacture as may be specified
by the Sri Lanka Handicrafts Board established
by the National Crafts Council and Allied
Institutions Act, No. 35 of 1982, shall be exempt
from income tax.
(2) In this section—
“export profits and income” in relation to a
person or partnership and a year of
assessment, means the sum which
bears to the profits and income (within
the meaning of paragraph (a) of
section 3 other than profits and income
from the sale of capital assets) of that
person or partnership for that year of
assessment, from the undertaking
Insertion of
section 20A  in the
principal
enactment.
‘Exemption
from income
tax of profits
and income of
an
undertaking
for export of
handicrafts.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8  of 2001
referred to in subsection (1), the same
proportion as the export turnover of
that person or partnership for that year
of assessment bears to the total
turnover of that person or partnership
for that year of assessment ;
“export turnover” in relation to a person or
partnership and a year of assessment
means the total amount received or
receivable by that person or
partnership in that year of assessment,
from the export of handicrafts of such
categories  and conforming to such
standards as are referred to in
subsection (1) (other than any amount
received or receivable by the sale of
capital assets) ;
“handicraft” means an article of decorative
value made wholly or mainly by hand ;
“total turnover” in relation to a person or
partnership and a year of assessment
means the total amount received or
receivable by that person or
partnership in that year of assessment
(other than any amount received or
receivable by the sale of any capital
asset) ;’.
7. Section 32 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the addition, at the end of that section of the
following new subsection :—
“(8) Where a fund or society has been set up or
formed for the welfare of the members of
Amendment of
section 32 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2001
the Sri Lanka Army, Sri Lanka Navy,
Sri Lanka Air Force or the Sri Lanka Police
Force and their respective families, the
Commissioner-General may, subject to such
conditions as he may specify, reduce or remit
the tax payable by such fund or society, as
the case may be, if it appears to the
Commissioner-General that such reduction
or remission is just and equitable in all the
circumstances of the case.”;
(2) by the substitution for the marginal note to that
section of the following :—
“Rates of income tax on persons other than
companies.”.
8. Section 50 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “earns in any year of assessment”, of the words
and figures “earns in any year of assessment commencing
prior to April 1, 2001”.
9. Section 51 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (2) of that section—
(a) by the substitution, for the words “referred to
in subsection (1) of ”, of the words “referred
to in subsection (1) and commencing prior to
April 1, 2001 of” ;
(b) in paragraph (a) thereof—
(i) by the substitution, for the words “if the
relevant part of the income exceeds the
amount of such profits and income–”, of
the words “if the relevant part of the
income exceeds the amount of such
emoluments and fees–” ; and
Amendment of
section 50 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 51 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8  of 2001
(ii) by the substitution  in sub-paragraph (i)
of that paragraph, for the words “is equal
to the amount of such profits and income”,
of the words “is equal to the amount of
such emoluments and fees”; and
(c) in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution
for the words “does not exceed the amount of
such profits and income”, of the words “does
not exceed the amount of such emoluments
and fees”; and
(2) by the addition, at the end of that subsection, of the
following new subsection :—
‘(3) Where the taxable income for any year
of assessment referred to in subsection (1), and
commencing on or after April 1, 2001 of any
individual includes any emoluments and fees
referred to in such subsection earned by such
individual or which accrued to such individual
by way of his share of profits from any
partnership in Sri Lanka referred to in
subsection (1) and the rate of income tax
payable on a part of such income (hereinafter
in this section referred to as the “relevant part
of income”) exceeds ten per centum, then, in
regard to the relevant part of the income, the
tax shall be computed as follows :—
(a) if the relevant part of the income
exceeds the amount of such
emoluments and fees —
(i) the tax payable on such part
of the relevant part of the
income as is equal to the
amount of such emoluments
and fees shall be at the rate
of ten per centum ; and

<!-- page 8 -->

7Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2001
(ii)the tax payable on the
balance of the relevant part of
the income shall be computed
according to such of the rates
above ten per centum as are
applicable thereto under this
Act ; and
(b) if the relevant part of the income does
not exceed the amount of such
emoluments and fees, the tax payable
on the entirety of the relevant part of
the income shall be at the rate of ten
per centum,  notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this Act.’.
10. Section 53 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the second proviso to paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) of that section, by the substitution, for the words and figures
“paragraph (a) of section 8”, of the words and figures
“paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of section 8”.
11. Section 61 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words and figures “paragraph (a) of section 8”,  of the
words and figures “paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
section 8”.
12. Section 131 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, and
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—
‘(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)—
“ specified person”—
(a) in relation to the year of assessment
commencing on April 1, 2000 means any
person, partnership or body of persons,
Amendment of
section 53 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 61 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 131 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8  of 2001
who or which either on his or it’s own
behalf or on behalf of any other person
or persons or partnership or partnerships
is likely to pay or to credit in that year of
assessment or has paid or credited in the
year of assessment immediately
preceding that year of assessment—
(i) a specified fee of, or specified fees
aggregating to, not less than thirty
thousand rupees to any other person
or to any other partnership ; or
(ii)specified fees aggregating to not
less than two hundred and fifty
thousand rupees ; and
(b) in relation to any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2001,
means any person, partnership or body of
persons, who or which either on his or
it’s own behalf or on behalf of any other
person or persons or partnership or
partnerships is likely to pay or to credit
in that year of assessment or has paid or
credited in the year of assessment
immediately preceding that year of
assessment, specified fees aggregating to
not less than one million rupees ; and
“specified fee”—
(a) in relation to the year of assessment
commencing on April 1, 2000 means any
sum payable by any specified person in
consideration for services rendered by any
person or by any partnership, as the case
may be, in the course of any business,
profession, vocation or other activities of

<!-- page 10 -->

9Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2001
an independent character carried on or
exercised by such person or any partner
of such partnership, as the case may be,
and includes any commission, brokerage
or other sums of a like nature payable by
such specified person but does not include
any sum payable by such specified person
to any employee of such specified person
in the course of employment under such
specified person ; and
(b) in relation to any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2001
means any sum or sums aggregating to
not less than one hundred and fifty
thousand rupees payable by any specified
person in that year to any person or
partnership, in consideration for services
rendered by  that person or partnership,
as the case may be, in the course of any
business, profession or vocation or other
activities of an independent character
carried on or exercised by that person or
any partnership, as the case may be, and
includes any commission, brokerage or
other sums of a like nature payable by
such specified person but does not include
any sum payable by such specified person
to any employee of such specified person
in the course of employment under such
specified person.’.
13. Section 186 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :–
(1) by the substitution, in the definition of ‘owner’, for
the words “ground rent of other”, of the words
“ground rent or other”;
Amendment of
section 186 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8  of 2001
(2) in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of the
definition of ‘qualifying distribution’  by the
substitution, for the words and figures “paragraph
(a) of section 8”, of the words and figures “paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of section 8”.
14. Section 187 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :–
(1) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (2) of
that section of the following subsection :–
“(2
A ) Where the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka has entered into an agreement with an
enterprise under section 17 of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978, prior
to April 1, 2000, providing for the exemption of
the whole or a part of the profits and income of
that enterprise from imcome tax payable under the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, for a specified
period, and there remains on March 31, 2000, an
unexpired part of such specified period, the whole
or part, as the case may be, of the profits and income
of that enterprise which, but for the provisions of
subsection (1), would have been exempt from
income tax shall be exempt from income tax,
payable under this Act, for such unexpired part of
the specified period.” ; and
(2) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (3) of
that section, of the following subsection :–
“(3
A ) Where an individual pays, on or after
April 1, 2000, to the Government of Sri Lanka or
to any institution referred to in paragraph (ee) of
subsection (2) of section 31 of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 28 of 1979, any amount –
(a) in the repayment of the capital of any
loan ; or
Amendment of
section 187 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2001
(b) as monthly payments of any rent
purchase agreement,
referred to in that paragraph such amount shall,
notwithstanding anything in subsection (1) but
subject to the conditions specified in the
aforesaid paragraph, be deductible from the
assessable income of that individual in any year
of assessment commencing on or after April 1,
2000, as if such Act continued to be in force.”.
15. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended in Part III of that Schedule by the substitution,
for the words and figures “on the first Rs. 500,000 of the
taxable income”, of the  words and figures “on the first
Rs. 500,000 of the taxable income - nil”.
16. Where in any provision of the principal enactment
specified in Column I of the Schedule hereunder, there appears
any words or expression specified in the corresponding entry
in Column II of that Schedule, there shall be substituted for
those words or expression, the words or expression specified
in the corresponding entry in Column III of that Schedule.
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II Column III
11 (f) section 15, 17, 18, 19 or section 15, 17, 18, 19,
20 of this Act. 20 or 21 of this Act
14 (2) sub-paragraphs (xxii) sub-paragraphs (xx),(xxii)
and (xxiia). and (xxiii).
23 (1) (n) formation or of formation or  liquidation of
32 (3) such part of such income a part of such income
32 (3) (b) the tax payable on the the tax payable on such part
income of the income
49 (1) (a) of any commodity of any commodity
Amendment of
the First Schedule
to the principal
enactment.
General
amendment to the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8  of 2001
Column I Column II Column III
61 (1) Every resident company Every resident company,
other than a quoted shall
company, shall
76 (2) such profits from such his profits from such
business business
76 (2) person where his agent, person were his agent,
76 (3) retailed by or on behalf retained by or on behalf
86 (2) profits other than premises. profits other than premiums.
92 (3) Act No. 28 of 1979 and Act, No. 28 of 1979
 section 92 of this Act,  shall shall
104 (1) (a) under section 98 (i) under section 98 (2)
104 (1) (b) in section 98 (2) in section 98 (1)
104 (1) (c) provisions of section iii; provision of section III ;
105 (1) notwithstanding that the notwithstanding that no
117 (3) any pay, poriod any pay period
171 (6) under subsection (1) of under subsection (1) of
section 13 section 113
17. Section 8 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979
as amended by section 2 of the Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 41 of 1999 (granting exemption from income tax, to
the Commonwealth Development Corporation) shall be
deemed for all purposes to have come into force on January
1, 1996.
18. Where the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka has
entered into an agreement with an enterprise under section 17
of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978,
on or after April 1, 2000 but prior to the date of commencement
of this Act and the agreement provides for the exemption of
the whole or any part of the profits and income of such enterprise
from income tax payable under the principal enactment, such
exemption shall be deemed to have been, and to be, valid and
effectual from the date of such agreement, as if such exemption
had been expressly granted to the enterprise by a provision of
the principal enactment.
Amendment of
Act, No. 28 of
1979.
Validation of
certain
exemptions
provided in
agreements
entered into by
the Board of
Investment of Sri
Lanka.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2001
19. The amendments made to the principal enactment
by sections 10, 11 and 13 of this Act shall be deemed for all
purposes to have come into force on April 1, 2000.
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Retrospective
effect.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8  of 2001
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.