

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … ––
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1779
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"078 – 2018 cqks ui 29 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'06'29
No. 2,078  –  fRiday ,  juNE 29, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th july, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th july, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1777- B 81425- 5,403 (06/2018)
Note.–  (i) amaradeva aesthetic and Research centre Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of june 14, 2018.
 (ii) Excise (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka of june 22, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2018
1778
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2018
1779
Posts – vacant
mINISTRy  Of  hIGhER  EDuCATION  AND 
CuLTuRAL  AffAIRS
Department of Cultural Affairs
REcRuitmENt to thE PoSt of muSiciaN iN thE 
StatE muSic ENSEmBLE oN coNtRact BaSiS
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the Sri Lankan citizens 
who possess under - mentioned qualifications for making 
recruitment, on contract, basis, to the vacancies in the State 
music Ensemble of the department of cultural affairs.
Duly filled applications, prepared in A4 Sheets as per the 
specimen given at the end of this notification should be sent 
to reach the director, department of cultural affairs, 8th 
floor, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla on or before 31.07.2018 
by registered post. "musician" (contract Basis) should be 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application. applications received after the closing date 
will be rejected. this application could also be obtained on 
www.culturaldept.gov.lk.
01. Terms of engagement and Conditions :
 (i) appointment is made on contract basis for a 
period of 3 years.
 (ii) Salary.- a monthly allowance of Rs.33,600 will 
be paid.
02. Educational and other Qualifications :
 (i) Educational Qualifications:
  Should have passed three subjects (03) including 
Music at General Certificate of Education 
(advanced Level) Examination ; 
  and
  Should have passed the National music final 
Examination or music Visharad Examination of 
Bathkande faculty ; 
  or
  Should have possessed a degree in music 
subject, recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 (ii) Professional Qualifications :-
  Not applicable (Professional Qualifications will 
be considered as an added qualification at the 
interview to test the eligiblity)
 (iii) experience :
  05 year experience as a musician in an arts 
School (Kalayathanaya) recognized by the 
Government or in an arts School, recognized by 
the director of cultural affairs as an equivalent 
institution.
  or
  Should be a traditional musician (Should be 
certified in writing)
 (iv) Physical Qualifications :
 (i) Every candidate should physically and 
mentally fit to perform the duties in the post 
and to serve in any part of the island.
 (ii) height of the candidate should be  not less 
than 5 feet and 3 inches.
 (v) Other Qualifications :
 (i) Every candidate should possess a good 
moral character and should physically fit.
 (ii) Every candidate should have fulfilled 
all the requisite qualifications in every 
manner as at the date stipulated in the 
advertisement for the recruitment to the 
post.
 (iii) Proficiency in singing/playing instruments 
will be considered.
03. Age Limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not 
more than 45 years at the date of closing applications.
04. Method of Recruitment :
 *  Recruitments will be made on the results of an 
interview to test the eligiblity and a Professional 
test.
 * only the candidates who have passed the 
interview to test the eligiblity, will be called 
upon for the Professional test. Recruitments 
will be made in order of merit of the total marks 
obtained both from the interview to test the 
eligibility and the Professional test.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2018
1780
interview to test the eligibility :
Key headings of giving marks Maximum 
Marks
Minimum 
marks for 
selection
1. additional Educational 
Qualifications
20
Not  
applicable
2. Experience in the relevant 
field (Should be certified 
through certificates)
35
3. Professional Qualifications :
(i) Should have participated 
in the events at national 
level under the guidance 
of veterans in the field
(ii) Should have participated 
in performance shows 
held abroad with the 
veterans or by cultural 
centers. 
25
4. Language Proficiency 15
5. Skills shown at the interview 05
total 100
Professional test :
Key headings of giving marks Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Mark
1. main Subject (Singing/Playing 
instruments)
60 30
2. Sub Subjects (Playing instruments 
for singers/Singing for 
instrumentalists)
20 10
3. ability to read/write notations 20 10
total 100 50
 
05. Identity of the candidates.– applications should be 
furnished with correct information on educational and other 
qulifications of the candidate. Only the candidates, who 
have submitted duly filled complete applications, will be 
called upon for the interview to test the eligibility.
The original certificates and the duly certified copies 
thereof should be submitted at the interview.
the following papers of indentity will be accepted in 
proof of indentity of the candidates :
 1. National identity card issued by the commissioner 
of Registration of Persons,
 2. Valid Passport.
06. Any type of canvassing will be a disqualification.
07. if any information contained in the application is found 
to be incorrect, the applicant will be liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is revealed before the selection and to 
dismissal if it is so revealed after the appointment.
08. if there is any inconsistency or mismatch among 
Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this notification, action 
will be taken as per the sinhala text.
 anusha gokula Fernando,
 director,
 department of cultural affairs.
department of cultural affairs,
08th floor, Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla,
12th june 2018.
specimen application Form
For Office use
application For the post oF musician (contract basis) in 
the department oF cultural aFFairs
01.  Name with initials :––––––––––.
02. Name denoted by initials :––––––––––.
03. date of Birth :––––––––––.
04. age (as at 31.07.2018) :––––––––––.
05. height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
06. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
07. Sex :––––––––––.
08. address :––––––––––.
09. t elephone No. :––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2018
1781
10. Educational Qualifications :
 (i)  G. c. E. (advanced Level) :
  y ear :––––––––––.    index No. :––––––––––.
  
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
 (ii) degree obtained :––––––––––.
  
effective Date Field  University/Institute
 (iii) National music final Examination or music 
Visharad Examination of Bathkande faculty :
effective 
Date
examination
Passed
 University/Institute
11. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––.
 
12. Experince :––––––––––.
I hereby confirm that the particulars furnished by 
me in this application are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. i am aware that if it is revealed that any 
information contained in the application is found to be 
incorrect I will be liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy 
is revealed before the selection and to dismissal if it is so 
revealed after the appointment.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––.
06-1011
mINISTRy  Of  IRRIGATION,  WATER 
RESOuRCES AND  DISASTER   
mANAGEmENT
Irrigation Department
thE  oPEN  comPEtitiVE  ExamiNatioN 
foR  thE  REcRuitmENt  foR  ENGiNEERiNG 
aSSiStaNtS'  VacaNciES  iN  GRadE  iii of 
ENGiNEERiNG  aSSiStaNt'S  SERVicE  iN  thE 
iRRiGatioN  dEPaRtmENt
aPPLicatioNS are called under the direct recruitment 
for Engineering assistants' vacancies in Grade iii of the 
Engineering assistants' Service in the irrigation department.
applications prepared as per the attached application 
shall be sent to the director General of irrigation, No. 230, 
Baudhdhaloka mawatha, colombo 07 by registered post on 
or before 02.08.2018.
"Post of Engineering assistant of Grade iii of the 
Engineering assistants' Service in the irrigation department 
(direct recruitment)" shall be mentioned in the top left 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. 
applications received after this date will be rejected. 
1. Method of Recruitment : 
 (a) all  recruitments will be made according to the 
Public administration circular No. 15/90 and the 
provisions of the Establishments codes.
 (b) Recruitments shall be made on the results of 
a written competitive examination. Qualified 
candidates shall be selected by calling a number of 
candidates equivalent to the number of recruitments 
expected to be made, for a general interview, 
according to the order of merit determined on 
the aggregate marks of the candidates who have 
passed the written examination. 
the syllabus of the written examination is as follows :
Question paper Time Total 
marks
Pass 
marks
Intelligence Test (Logical 
thinking and analytical skills, 
decision making ability and 
knowledge in making judgments 
are assessed)
1 
hour
100 40

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2018
1782
Question paper Time Total 
marks
Pass 
marks
Technological question paper 
(Knowledge in subject such 
as basic algebra, coordinate 
geometry, calculus, trigonometry 
and hydrostatics, statics, 
electricity, mechanics, heat, 
statistics is assessed)
2 
hours
100 40
2. (a) Educational Qualifications :
 (i) Shall have passed G. c. E (ordinary Level) 
examination in six (06) subjects with credit 
passes for Sinhala/ tamil, English Language, 
mathematics, Science and one more subject 
within one sitting ; 
  and
 (ii) Shall have passed G. c. E. (advanced 
Level) examination in subjects related to the 
fields Physics, Pure Mathematics, Applied 
mathematics and chemistry as per the old 
syllabus at one sitting ; 
  or
 (iii) Shall have passed G. c. E. (advanced Level) 
examination in three subjects advanced 
mathematics or combined mathematics, 
Physics and chemistry as per the old syllabs 
at one sitting. 
(b) Vocational Qualifications :
 (i) Having obtained the certificate upon following 
the diploma in irrigation Engineering at a 
training institute in Galgamuwa, Kotmale ; 
  or
 (ii) Having obtained the certificate upon following 
the National diploma in technology (civil 
Engineering) at the university of moratuwa, 
Katubedda ; 
  or
 (iii) Having obtained the certificate upon following 
the higher National diploma in Engineering 
Science (civil Engineering) conducted by Sri 
Lanka institute of advanced technologies, 
mattakkuliya ; 
  or
 (iv) Having obtained the certificate upon following 
the National diploma in Engineering Science 
(civil-Engineering) conducted by the institute 
of Engineering technologies, Katunayake ; 
  or
 (v) Having obtained the certificate upon 
following the diploma in technology 
(civil Engineering) conducted by the open 
university ; 
  or
 (vi) Having obtained the certificate upon 
following a course similar to above any 
course recognized by the university Grants 
commission or the commission of tertiary 
Education. (these courses shall be of NVQ 
level 6).
3. Other qualifications :
 (i) Shall be of the age not less than 18 years and not 
more than 3 years as of the date 02.08.2018 (the 
upper age limit is not effective for the employees 
of the provincial and public service).
 (ii) Shall have the physical fitness to serve in any 
part of the island and to perform the duties of the 
post. 
 (iii) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (iv) Shall be of excellent character. 
 (v) candidates are deemed to have possessed 
qualifications to sit the competitive examination 
for the recruitment to the service only if they 
have satisfied all the qualifications and the 
prescribed age limit in each and every aspect 
as at the date prescribed in the notification for 
calling applications. 
4. Service conditions :
 (a) the post is permanent, shall be liable to policy 
decision to be taken in future by the government in 
respect of the pension scheme and contributions 
will have to be made to the Widows'/Widowers' 
and orphans' Pension Scheme. 
 (b) Applicants are first recruited to the Irrigation 
department as apprentices. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2018
1783
 (c) Recruited apprentices will be given a six 
months in service training including theoretical 
and practical training as ordered by irrigation 
department. their seniority is determined by the 
merit shown at the passing of the theoretical and 
practical test held afterwards. 
 (c) an allowance of Rs. 22,008 per month will be 
paid for during the training period of six months 
to the apprentices who are recruited under the 
direct recruitment. this allowance is entitled 
for the extended period of training as per the 
permission of the director General of irrigation. 
No other benefits or claims are entitled during 
the period of training. 
 (d) irrigation apprentices are subjected the 
provisions of the Establishment codes and 
other regulations issued by the government from 
time to time. they are not entitled for leaves or 
railway warrants during the period of training. 
 (e) all lectures and training courses will be 
conducted in English medium. 
 (f) applicants who successfully complete the 
training will be appointed to the post of 
Engineering assistants of Grade iii in the 
Engineering assistants' Service at the irrigation 
department. 
 (g) upon completing the period of apprenticeship, 
these appointments will be subjected to a 
probationary period of 03 years from the date of 
resuming the formal appointments in the post of 
Engineering assistants of Grade iii. 
 (h) applicants selected as such must sign an 
agreement to serve in the post of Engineering 
assistants for a compulsory period of 05 years. 
if required to resign from the service earlier, the 
amount stated in the agreement shall be paid to 
the government. 
5. Salary scale.– monthly consolidated salary step is 
mN3-2016 and the scale (as per the P. a. c. 03/2016) is     
Rs. 31,040-10x445 -11x660 - 10x370 - 10x750 - Rs. 57,550 
for this post after successfully completing the training 
period. (An efficiency bar examination is due prior to the 
Rs. 31,930  annual salary step).
6. Certified true copies of the following certificates shall 
be submitted with the application by the applicant,
 (i) Technological certificates obtained,
 (ii) Certificate of G. C. E. (Advanced Level),
 (iii) Certificate of G. C. E. (Ordinary Level),
 (iv) The Certificate of birth issued by the Registrar 
General,
 (v) The Certificate of character obtained by the 
principal of the school studied for the last time,
 (vi) The Certificate of character (DS4 form) obtained 
by the Grama Niladhari of the residing village. 
Note.– The copies of the above mentioned certificates 
will not be returned. 
7. applicants who are in Public Service or Provincial 
Public Service must send their applications through their 
heads of departments. 
8. applicants shall sit at the expense of themselves for 
a written examination and a general interview held by an 
institute approved by the director General of irrigation.
9. Shall be prepared to serve in any region of the island 
depending on the requirement of the service. it shall be 
understood by the applicants that mostly the working sites of 
the department are located in rural areas with less transport 
and accommodati on facilities. Selected applicants will be 
attached to rural areas and should serve in such a region for 
at least five (05) years.
10. if any false information mentioned by the applicants 
is uncovered prior to the recruitment, action will be taken to 
cancel the applicant's candidature. if such false information 
is uncovered after the recruitment, his service will be 
terminated. in addition, legal action will have to be taken 
against submitting false information. 
  Eng. S. 
mohanarajah, 
  director General of irrigation.
 irrigation department, 
No. 230, Bauddhaloka mawatha, 
colombo 07,
on 13th june, 2018.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2018
1784
ministry oF irrigation, Water resources and disaster 
management
irrigation department
The oPen CoMPeTITIve exAMInATIon FoR The 
ReCRUITMenT To The GRADe III oF enGIneeRInG 
ASSISTAnT'S SeRvICe In The IRRIGATIon 
DeP ARTMenT
1.0 (a) Name in full :–––––––––––.
 (b) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
2.0 Gender :–––––––––––.
3.0 (a) address :–––––––––––.
 (b) Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 (c) t elephone No. :
  fixed :–––––––––––.
  mobile :–––––––––––.
 (d) Email address :–––––––––––.
4.0 district of residence :–––––––––––.
5.0 divisional Secretary's division :–––––––––––.
6.0 Date of Birth (Attach a copy of the certificate of birth) :
 (a) date :–––––––. month :–––––––. year :–––––––.
 (b) Place of Birth :–––––––––––.
 (c) age as at 02.08.2018 :
  y ears :––––––.  months :––––––.  days :––––––.
7.0 National identity card No. :–––––––––––.
8.0 are you Sri Lankan ? yes/No :–––––––––––.
 Race : Sinhalese muslim
  Sir Lankan tamil other
  indian t amil
9.0 Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
  (Attach the copies of educational certificates)
 9.1 G. c. E. (ordinary Level) Examination : 
  first attempt : 
  admission No. :––––––––––.  year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
  Second attempt (if required) :
  admission No. :––––––––––.  year :––––––––––.
  
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
 9.2 G. c. E. (advanced Level) examination : 
  admission No. :––––––––––.  year :––––––––––.
  
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
10.0 Technical Qualifications (Attach the copies of 
certificates) :–––––––––––.
 (mention the course name and the name of the 
technical college)
11.0 have you vacated/resigned from/been terminated 
from/dismissed from the service while serving in a 
government department or provincial public service ? 
Reasons if yes :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'06'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2018
1785
12.0 Particulars of your current employment, if any : 
 (a)  Post :–––––––––––.
 (b)  organization :–––––––––––.
 (c)  date of appointment :–––––––––––.
 (d)  Nature of the post (Permanent/t emporary/
casual) :–––––––––––.
13.0 i do hereby certify that all the particulars given here 
are true and correct. i am aware that if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect 
before selection I will be disqualified for this post and 
if such information is uncovered after the appointment. 
i am liable to be dismissed from service without any 
compensation. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
Recommendation of the head of the department (only 
for the applicants from a Government department/
Provincial Public Service) :
i hereby certify that ............................... is serving in this 
department, his/her work and the behavior is satisfactory, is 
in accordance with the requirements and conditions stated 
for applying for this post. further it is informed that, he/
she can/cannot be released from the service if selected for 
this post. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the head of the department.
  (Official seal)
Name :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
06–1124
–––––––––––––––––
REViSioN 
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
it is hereby informed that the closing date of applications mentioned in para one of the Gazette Notification on Direct 
Recruitment to the Grade III of Sri Lanka Accountant's Service on Merit and Professional Qualification - 2016 published 
under para ii(a) Section i of the Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 2,073 dated 25th may 2018, has 
been extended up to 25th july, 2018.
the applicants who have already submitted the applications by hand or sent by registered post to the ministry of 
Public administration, management and Law and order are not required to apply again. 
on the order of the Public Service commission, 
  padmasiri jayamanne, 
  Secretary, 
  ministry of Public administration, management and 
  Law and order.
colombo, 
25th june, 2018.
06–1157
 