

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2665
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2660 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"355 – 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'10'20
No. 2,355  –  fRiday,  octobER 20, 2023
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10
th November, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th october, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2657 - b 082506 - 5,403 (10/2023)
N. B.–  Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2354 of 13.10.2023 was not published. 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2658
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2659
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2660
Posts - v acant 
mINISTR y  Of  JuSTICE ,  PRISON   AffAIRS   AND  CONSTITuTIONAL   REfORmS
Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms Recruitment to the Post of Secretary in 
the Executive Service Category (Limited basis) of the Department of Law Commission – 2023
by the order of the cabinet of Ministers, applications are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the under mentioned 
qualifications in order to recruit a suitable person to fill the vacancy in the post of Secretary in the Executive Service 
category of the department of Law commission. applications forms prepared as per the specimen form appended at 
the end of this notice should be sent by registered post to reach the "Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and 
Constitutional Reforms, No. 19, Sri Sangaraja mawatha, Colombo 10" on or before the date indicated below. 
The words ""Recruitment to the post of Secretary in the Executive Service Category of the Department of Law 
Commission on Limited basis" should be written clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application form,
Closing date of application will be 20/11/2023. 
Note : No allegation that an application form or a document respecting such form has been lost or delayed in the post can be 
considered. applicants who delay their applications until the last day will do so at their own risk.
01. method of Recruitment
Selection will be made on the order of merit secured at a structured interview to be conducted by an interview board 
to be appointed as per the cabinet decision No. wum/16/0927/755/008 dated 14.06.2016. the date on which such 
appointment will take effect will be decided in accordance with order of the Cabinet of Ministers.
02. Terms of engagement
 (i) This post is permanent. It is pensionable. The pension scheme entitled to you is subject to policy decisions 
to be taken by the Government from time to time in the future. you should be contribute to the Windows and 
orphans Pension Scheme/ Widowers and orphans Pension Scheme. you are required to pay contributions 
to the same as prescribed by the Government from time to time.
 (ii) In case an officer has not passed Efficiency Bar Examination III in the Post of Secretary, Grade I in the 
Executive Service Category of the Department of Law Commission is required to pass the Efficiency Bar 
Examination iii before the expiry of one (01) year from the date on which the recruitment will be made to 
this post.
 (iii) An officer recruited to this post should, in terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and 
the Circulars issued incidental thereto, acquire the prescribed language proficiency within five (05) years 
of appointing to this post. The officer who enters the public service in medium of language other than in a 
medium of any of the official languages will require to reach within three (03) years a requisite standard 
of proficiency in one official language and within five (05) years in the other official language.
 (iv) This appointment will be subjected to the Cabinet Decisions, the procedural Rules of the Public 
Service commission, Establishment code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial 
Regulations. departmental orders and any other regulations and orders issued from time to time by the 
Government.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2661
03. Salary Scale
in terms of the Public administration circular No. 3/2016, this post which is under SL-1-2006, carries a salary 
of Rs. 47,615-10X1335 – 8X 1630 -17X2170 – Rs. 110,895/- per month and the initial salary scale amounts to  
Rs. 76,175/- at salary step 20 as per grading system.
04. Qualifications
 4.01 Educational Qualifications –
  Should have possessed a Post Graduate degree in law conferred on by a University recognized by the 
University Grants commission.
 4.02 Professional Qualifications –
  Should be an officer in a post of the Executive Service Category in a Ministry/Department as per the Public 
administration circular No. 06/2006 and an attorney-at-Law enrolled by the Supreme court.
 4.03 Experience 
 (a) Should as per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006, be an officer, Grade I in the Executive 
Service Category or be an officer, Grade II in the Executive Service Category with Seven (07) year 
dynamic and satisfactory proof of service, having earned seven (07) consecutive salary increments.
 (b) Should furnished a satisfactory performance appraisal or a higher degree of satisfactory performance 
appraisal for the 05 years immediately preceding the closing date of calling for applications.
 (c) Should not, during the 05 years immediately preceding the date on which the recruitment will be 
made to this post have been subjected to any disciplinary punishments.
05. Age limit – Age limit is not applicable as applications are invited from the officers already in Public Service.
06. Physical fitness
Every applicant should be in good mental and physical order to serve in any part of the island and to discharge the 
duties and functions of the post.
07. Other Qualifications
 
Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she,
 (i) Should be citizen of Sri Lanka
 (ii) Should possess excellent moral character
 iii) Should have fulfilled all the necessary qualifications in every respect as at the closing date of calling for 
applications referred to in this notice of calling for applications.
08. Structured Interview
Marks will be awarded at a structured interview to be conducted by an interview board to be appointed as per the 
cabinet decision No. wum/16/0927/755/008 dated 14.06.2016. Qualifications will also be checked at the structured 
interview.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2662
09. method of awarding marks at the interview
Areas in respect of which marks are awarded
maximum marks 
that could be 
awarded
Additional Educational Qualifications 45
Local/foreign trainings 20
Research papers and legal texts etc. published by the applicant 20
additional experience 10
Leadership, personality and communication skills found as per the discretion 
of the interview board.
05
Total 100
the applicant with the highest marks according to the results of the structured interview will be appointed to the 
post of Secretary.
10. Identity of the Applicant
only applicants who have submitted completed applications in all respects will be called for the structured interview.
Original copies of all certificates should be submitted at the interview along with the copies thereof duly certified 
by the applicants.
Each applicants should produce at the interview to establish his/her identity the following identity documents.
 (i) Valid National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons 
 (ii) Valid Passport
11. (i) applications should be prepared on a a4 paper 22x29 cm in size using both sides and items from 01 to 11 to 
appear on the first page and from 12 onwards on the second page and it should be filled by the candidate's 
own legible handwriting. applications which are not in conformity with the specimen appended at the end of 
this notice or are received after the closing date of acceptance of applications are liable to be rejected without 
notice. incomplete applications and applications of applicants who do not possess the prescribed minimum 
requirements will also be rejected. Therefore, applicants should see that their applications are as per the 
specimen in every respect. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
 Note : (a)  No documents or copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
  (b)  applications of applicants who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be 
considered.
(II) Applications from officers who are in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service/ Public Corporations are 
required to be forwarded through the Heads of the departments.
12. orders of the cabinet of Ministers, Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, circulars that are now 
in force or may be issued from time to time in the future in respect of the Public Service and the conditions of the 
Scheme of Recruitment applicable to the Executive Service category of the department of Law commission shall 
be applicable to this post. the decision taken by the cabinet of Ministers regarding any matter not provide a for in 
this recruitment notification shall be final and conclusive.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2663
13. Providing false information :
if any particulars mentioned in the application sent by you are found to be false or incorrect before recruitment, 
your candidacy will be cancelled. if any such false or incorrect information is discovered after the recruitment, 
measures will be taken for the dismissal of the service.
14. in the event of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, t amil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
by the order of the cabinet of Ministers,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms
06th october 2023. Specimen Application form
Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms
Application for the Post of Secretary in the Executive Service Category (Limited basis) of the Department of Law 
Commission
01. (a)  Name with initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :-……………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
  Name with initials (in English block capitals) :- ……………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (b)  full Name (in Sinhala/t amil) :- ………………………………………………..……………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
  full Name (in English block capitals) :- ……………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
02. Permanent address (in Sinhala/ t amil) :- ………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
03. Permanent address (in English block capitals) :- ………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
04. t elephone No. :- …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
05. National identity card No. :- 
06. Sex :- ……………………………………………
07. date of birth :- year : …….…………… Month : ……………………… date : …………………………..
08. age as at the closing date of applications :- years: ……………… Months: ……………….. dates: …………….………
No. ………………………………………
(for office use only)

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2664
09. Race :- ……………………………………………………………………
10. Marital status :- ……………………………………………………………
11. Particulars of the Post Graduate degree :-
 University :- ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 Subject/s :- ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 date on which the degree was conferred on :- …………………………………………………………………………
 Medium of language :- …………………………………………………………………………………………………
12. date of enrolment as an attorney-at-Law :- ……………………………………………………………………………
13. Experience as an attorney-at-Law :- ……………………………………………………………………………………
14. Present designation : ……………………………………………………………………………………………………
 Grade :- …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
date of appointment to that Grade : ……………………………………………………………………………………
Present Place of Work : …………………………………………………………………………………………………
15. Professional Qualifications as per the paragraph 04,02 of this notice of calling for applications :-
 (i) ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (ii) ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (iii) ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (iv) ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (v) ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
16. Qualifications as per paragraph 09 of this notice of calling for applications :-
 (i)  …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (ii)  …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (iii)  …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (iv)  …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (v)  …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
17. Languages proficiency (Mark in the relevant box)
Very Good Good ordinary Weak
Sinhala
tamil
English

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2665
Applicant's Declaration
i, ………..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..….. declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct 
to the best of my knowledge. I certify that I have not been subject to any form of disciplinary action including dismissal 
from the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful alternative to dismissal and I have not vacated the 
post previously. i am also aware that, if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, i am liable to 
disqualification, if detected before selection and to dismissal without compensation, if detected after appointment.
   ……………………………………………,
   Signature of the applicant.
date :- ………………………………………………………
Certificate of the Head of the Department (Every applicant must submit his/her  
application through the head of Department)
i do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………………….., the applicant above named is serving as  ……………………….. 
attached to ……………………… ministry/department and that any disciplinary action, except for warning whatsoever has 
not been taken against him/her and he/she can be/cannot be released from the service if he/she will be selected for this post.
   …………………………………………………
   Signature and official seal of the secretary to the Ministry/ 
   Head of the department.
date :- ………………………………………………………………
Name :- ……………………………………………………………
designation :- ………………………………………………………
Ministry/ department :- ……………………………………………
10-302
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
ThE  ChIThThA  ADv ANCED  PSyChOLOGICAL  STuDIES  OPEN  INSTITuTE   
Of SRI  LANkA
(Arrangements have been made to incorporate under the Parliament Act bill No. 105 of 2022)
EXEcUtiVE  diPLoMa iN  bUSiNESS  PLaNNiNG  aNd LaboUR  La W  2023/2024
EXEcUtiVE  diploma in business Planning and Labour Law of the chiththa advanced Psychological Studies open 
institute of Sri Lanka can be applied to those who are university students/ after a/L students/ who are studying in the 
commerce field/ Government or Private sector employers/ starting a business or who are expatriate/ expect to expatriate or 
who are interested in business management and labour laws who meet the following qualifications.
Qualifications : GcE (aL) S3 passes in any stream 
 or
 Having met other qualifications that may be considered professional and educational.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2666
Total credit : 30
Semesters : 2 semesters
Nature of Course : online (open and distance Learning)
Teaching methodology : Lectures and tutorials are delivered through the LMS system.
medium : English or Sinhala
Course Duration : t welve – month
Course fees and Student Registration fees : diploma fees and Registration fees : the charge for the complete diploma 
is Rs. 37,000.00. an amount of Rs. 1000.00 must be paid as registration fee 
while registering for the diploma. the amount of Rs. 36,000.00 can be paid 
at once or in 10 installments.
how to Apply for the course :
 by the applicants should send their,
1. National identity card Photo (front and rear)
2. G.C.E (AL) examination result sheet and other educational certificate's photograph,
3. Self- coloured clear photograph
Send this 0740437777 (Whatsapp) Number
The last date for enrolling students for the course is : 25/11/2023
for more information : Can inquire through the phone number 0813169800 at Office hours from 8.30 am to 4.30 pm.
Senior Registrar
the chiththa advanced Psychological Studies open institute of Sri Lanka.
10-220
INSTITuTE  Of TEChNOLOGy uNIvERSITy Of mORATuWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology Course, 2023/2024
aPPLicatioNS  are invited from eligible candidates for admission to the National diploma in t echnology. 3-year fulltime 
course conducted by the institute of t echnology, University of Moratuwa. the course will be conducted in the Institute of 
Technology, university of moratuwa at Diyagama, homagama.
1. General:
the National diploma in t echnology course consists of two years of academic study and one year of industrial 
Training and is conducted in English Medium. The course is offered in the following fields of study :

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2667
a. maritime studies Courses (Set 1) b.  Other fields of Courses (Set 2)
i.  Marine Engineering t echnology i.      chemical Engineering t echnology
ii. Nautical Studies & t echnology ii.    civil Engineering t echnology
iii.    Electrical Engineering t echnology
iv.    Electronic & t elecommunication 
Engineering t echnology
v.     information t echnology
vi.    Mechanical Engineering t echnology
vii.   Polymer t echnology 
viii. t extile & clothing  t echnology
2. Eligibility
2.1  Age :
(a) applicants should be below 24 years of age on 31.12.2022.
(b) applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2022 will be given preference for admission to the Marine 
Engineering t echnology and Nautical Studies and t echnology courses. a  Special medical test & 
interview would also be conducted for selection of students to Marine Engineering and Nautical Studies 
courses.
(c) those who are fulltime registered students of any University under the UGc (except the open University 
of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational institute under the Ministry of Higher Education are not eligible to 
apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should have obtained passes in any three (03) of the following subjects:
i. Physics
ii. chemistry
iii. combined Mathematics
iv. advanced Mathematics
at one and the same sitting of a G.c.E (a.L) Examination conducted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2020 or 2021 or 2022.
(b) applicants who are applying for "Marine Engineering t echnology" and "Nautical Studies & t echnology" 
(Set 1) courses should have obtained a credit Pass (c) for English Language at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1  Admission to the Course :
the Selection of students for admission will be based on the performance at G.c.E. (a.L) Examination and the 
aptitude test to be conducted by the institute of t echnology, University of Moratuwa.
from those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be done in the merit order of G.c.E. (a.L) results, i.e. in 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2668
the order of z-scores. in the Selections, 40% merit and 60% district quota will be applied.
3.2  Field of Study :
Aptitude test marks together with the applicant's order of preference for the field of study as indicated in the 
field preference will be considered in the allocation of the field of study.
4. Application Procedure :
4.1  Application Form:
(i)  Applicants should be first submit their applications online through the online application form uploaded 
in the following web address.
http://www.itum.mrt.ac.lk
 (ii)  after submitting the online application, applicants are required to download the auto generated printable 
copy of the online application.
 (iii)  The content of the downloaded hard copy of the online application form has to be certified as indicated 
in the application. (See cages 3 & 5 in the form of application).
 (iv)  The hard copy of the duly filled application form should be forwarded under Registered Post marked 
"NDT Admission 2023/2024" on the top left hand corner of the envelope and addressed to the 
Assistant Registrar, Academic & Student Affairs Division, Institute of Technology, University of 
moratuwa, Diyagama, homagama.
 (v)  online application should be submitted before the closing date and also the hard copy of the application 
should reach the Assistant Registrar, Academic and Student Affairs, Institute of Technology, University 
of Moratuwa, diyagama on or before closing date of the applications.
 (vi)  a  self-addressed envelope (9"x4") with Rs. 110/= of Stamps should be enclosed along with the hard 
copy of the application.
Important:
Please note that, every applicant is required to submit both online application and the hard copy 
of the online application before the due date. Applicants who failed to submit online application 
and the hard copy of the application will not be taken in to consideration for further processing 
and incomplete applications will be rejected without any notice.
4.2 field Preference :
 (i) there are two SEtS of fields.
 (ii) applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies (SEt  1) or Other fields (SEt  2) or Both sets of fields, The 
Preference must be indicated if candidate applies to both sets of fields.
 (iii) SEt 1 – insert order of preference as 1 for first preference and 2 for Second preference. this should be 
completed only by the candidates who are applying for Maritime Studies .

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2023
2669
 (iv) SEt 2 – insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. "1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next, and 
so on "8" for the least preferred.
 
 i.  Application Fee :
  a  receipt of payment in favour of "Institute of Technology, university of moratuwa, A/C No. 83062337 
of bank of Ceylon, homagama branch" to the value of 1,000.00 (Rupees one thousand) application fee 
for either Set i or Set ii and Rs. 1,200.00 (Rupees one thousand two Hundred) application fee for both 
Set i and Set ii, should accompany each application. this application fee is non-refundable.
ii.  Scanned image of the Payment slip should be submitted with the online application and the copy of the 
original payment slip should be submitted along with the hard copy of the application form.
iii . Closing Date :
  the closing date of applications is 20.11.2023.
6. Aptitude Test and English language Proficiency Test:
applicants, short-listed according to the G.c.E. (a.L) performance in Merit & district Quota will be called for an 
aptitude test and English language proficiency test that will be conducted by the Institute of Technology, University 
of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
 (i) candidates selected for admission will be required to produce the Originals of the following certificates on 
the date of registration.
• G.C.E. (A.L) Certificate
• Certificate indicating G.C.E. (A.L.) Z-Score
• School Leaving Certificate
• Birth Certificate
• Affidavit in support of any changes in name appearing in different documents/ certificates.
6. Very Important :
 (i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in Technology Course will not be eligible for 
admission to any other course in this Institute or in any other university in Sri Lanka (Except Open 
university of Sri Lanka) or in any other higher Educational Institute under the ministry of higher 
Education during the tenure of the course.
 (ii) A student who has already registered in this Institute or any other university in Sri Lanka (Except 
Open university of Sri Lanka) or in any other higher Educational Institute is not be eligible for 
applying.
 (iii) All the particulars in the application should be true and accurate. If the particulars in the Application 
are found to be false or inaccurate, the applicants will be discontinued from the course at any time.
director,
institute of technology University of Moratuwa.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNka.
5.