

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2336$57 - 2023 cqks ui 15 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2023.06.15
No. 2336/57  -  thursday,   juNe  15,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6352 - 21 (06/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
NOTICE  Of  ESTAbLIShmENT  Of APPEAL  COmmITTEE fOR  DEvELOPmENT  PERmITS  AND   
SECRETARIAT  uNDER  SECTION  8(J)(5) Of  ThE  uRbAN  DEvELOPmENT  AuThORITY  LAw,  
 No.  41  Of  1978,  AS AmENDED  bY  uRbAN  DEvELOPmENT  AuThORITY  ACT,  No.  4  Of  1982 
Notice is hereby given to the General Public of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka under the statutory 
provisions of the urban development authority Law, No. 41 of 1978 as amended from time to time that i, Prasanna 
ranathunga, Minister of urban development and housing by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 8(j)(5) 
of the urban development authority Law, No. 41 of 1978 (as amended by urban development authority (amendment) 
act, No. 4 of 1982), establish a body called the appeal committee (hereinafter referred to as the ”appeal committee for 
development Permits”) for all such areas declared by the Minister under section 3 of the said act as “urban development 
areas” for the purpose of reviewing the appeals made by persons who are aggrieved by the refusal of the authority to grant 
a development permits as follows :
	 (a)	 Grant	a	final	decision	for	the	appeal	on	Development	Permits,	subject	to	the	regulations	made	under	the	Urban	
development authority Law, No. 41 of 1978 (as amended)
 (b) appoint the following members to carry out the duties and functions of the appeal committee for development 
Permits ;
 (i) secretary of Ministry of urban development and housing (chairman)
 (ii) chairman, urban development authority
 (iii) chairman, sri Lanka Land development corporation
 (iv) Board Member of the urban development authority appointed by the hon. Minister

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'06'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.06.2023
2a
 
 (v) director General, urban development authority
 (vi) additional director General, urban development authority
	 (c)	 Summon	Deputy	Director	General	(Planning	-	Zone	1)	or	a	nominated	officer,	Deputy	Director	General	(Planning	-	
Zone	2)	or	a	nominated	officer,	relevant	Director	or	an	officer,	as	per	the	requirement	of	the	Appeal	Committee	for	
development Permits on an invitation.
 (d) establish a secretariat for the appeal committee under chairman of urban development authority to handle the 
matters appealed to the Minister which are refused by the Main Planning committee, calculate the penalties based 
on the as-built drawings and forward and present the matters to the appeal committee.
	 (e)	 Forward	the	recommendation	of	the	Appeal	Committee	for	Development	Permits	to	the	Hon.	Minister	for	final	
approval.
	 (f)	 Upon	receipt	of	the	final	decision	of	the	Hon.	Minister,	issue	the	Development	permits	which	have	been	approved	
by the Minister, with the signature of the chairman of the urban development authority.
	 (g)	 Conduct	two	Appeal	Committees	per	month	and	take	minimum	of	two	files	per	Committee.
 (h) Follow up below guidelines by the appeal committee for development Permits in regulating the unapproved 
constructions.
 (i) When granting approval, the penalty charges should be calculated as follows :
Variation Penalty
Parking area not provided as 
per the regulations
rates apply as the service charges for covering approval (as per the 
Extraordinary Gazette Notification No. 2235/54 on 08.07.2021)
exceeded Far 50% of the estimated construction cost of the prevailing year of approval
exceeded Plot coverage 75% of the perch value of the prevailing year of approval.
 (ii) consider the existing or previous regulation as the prevailing regulation of the area, during the time of the 
construction for entire approval process :
 (iii) the appeal committee should not consider any constructions which violates of the regulation within special 
Planning	and	Building	Regulation	of	Parliament	area	(applicable	only	Zone	1	and	2),	Independence	Square	
and surrounding area development Guide Plan and any other special concern areas in the country :
 (iv) after the date of publication of the Gazette, the appeal committee should not consider any violation of the 
regulation within the special Primary residential Zone in colombo development Plan:
 Prasanna ranathunga (M. P.),
 Minister of urban development and housing.
Ministry of urban development and housing,
17th and 18th Floor,
“suhurupaya”, subuthipura road,
Battaramulla,
15th of june, 2023.
eoG 06 - 0110
PrIntED at thE DEPartMEnt OF gOVErnMEnt PrIntIng,  srI LanKa.