

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notiﬁ cations
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG6052 – 16 (11/2022)
wxl 2306$50 – 2022 fkdjeïn¾ ui 17 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2022'11'17
No. 2306/50 – THURSDAY, NOVEMBER  17, 2022
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notiﬁ cation under Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with Section 2 of the 
Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
I, Roshan Goonetileke, the Governor of the Western Province, in terms of the powers vested in me under Section 154 of the 
Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 
12, of 1989 do here by notify that my  approval has been given for the By-laws, described in the Schedule herein, made by 
the Peliyagoda Urban Council in terms of the Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with Section 
157 of the aforsaid Ordinance.
 
 Rඈඌඁൺඇ Gඈඈඇൾඍංඅൾ඄ൾ,
 RWP And BAR VSV USP PHD FIM (Sri Lanka) ndc psc,
 Marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force,
 The Governor,
 Western Province.
 
On 16th Day of November, 2022,
At Governors' Oﬃ  ce - Western Province,
Provincial Council Oﬃ  ce Complex,
Battaramulla.


<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Schedules
BY- LAW 
 REGULATING THE CONDUCT OF SHOWS ON THE ROADS AND STREETS
1.  This By-law is enacted to control, regulate and to make arr angements for consequent matters to 
the conduct of shows by gathering people in any road, street an d related reserve in the area of 
authority of the Peliyagoda Urban Council. 
   
2.  This By-law is known as the By-law of regulating the conduc t of shows on the roads and streets 
of the Peliyagoda Urban Council.
   
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these By- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub- section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
   
4.  No person shall conduct a show or engage in any such activi ty in such a way as to gather the 
public except with a prior written permission of the Chairman i n any road, street and related 
reserve in the area of authority of the  Peliyagoda Urban Counc il (herein after referred to as the 
authority area). 
   
5.  Any person wishing to conduct a show or engage in any activ ity in such a way as to gather 
the public on a particular road, street, or related reserve in the authority area within a speciﬁ ed 
period of time, shall apply for the permission in advance by su bmitting an application to the 
Chairman. 
   
6.  When someone has made a request to gather people to conduct  a show on a road, street or 
related reserve, or gather people to engage in any kind of such  activity, the Chairman shall not 
grant permission to any person to do so without subjecting himself/herself to the recommendations 
and conditions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health if there is a recommendation and conditions to which 
such gathering is appropriate for the beneﬁ t of the prevailing public health in the area.  
   
7.  Whenever any epidemic situation has been declared by the Qu arantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it in relatio n to the whole island or 
part of Sri Lanka or whenever an epidemic is declared in the au thority area no person 
shall engage in activities that gather the public on a road, street or related reserve in the authority 
area.
   
8.  This By-law stipulates that the applicant shall maintain th e relevant show subject to the following 
conditions:
 (1) That during the performance of the show, the relevant acti vities will be carried out in accordance 
with the health care strategies recommended to be maintained for the beneﬁ t of the public health 
of the area during the entire period,
Short name
Obtaining
permission
Granting
permission
by the Chairman.
Conditions

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
3A
 (2) That the show shall always be held only for random gatheri ngs and that the show shall not be 
advertised in advance,
   
 (3) That no fees shall be charged for the purpose of the show,
   
 (4) That at no time engage in the show that maintains a positi on that minimizes the visibility of the 
show,
   
 (5) That the performer shall keep adequate sealed garbage bins  at the venue, and if there is anything 
disposed by the people gathered they should be disposed to the garbage bins, and shall conduct 
the show by encouraging the audience to do so.
   
 (6) That the garbage collected in garbage bins at the venue du ring the show will be disposed of by 
the performer at the end of the show in accordance with the act ive waste management program 
in the area.
   
 (7) That if loudspeakers or other visual display boards are to  be set up at the venue, prior approval 
shall be obtained in accordance with the applicable written law and it shall be maintained so that 
it can be easily seen in more directions.
   
 (8) That the show will be held in such a manner that it will n ot cause any hindrance to traﬃ  c or 
pedestrian traﬃ  c.
   
 (9) That if there are any public health rules to be followed b y the gathering under the permission 
given to hold the show or perform the show, the relevant show w ill be held or the show will be 
held in satisfaction that all those rules will be fulﬁ lled in that manner.
   
9.  When the Chairman permits to hold a show on a road, street or related reserve or any other such 
event the relevant permission under section 5 of this by-law sh all be granted after been satisﬁ ed 
that it shall not disrupt with the traﬃ  c or public using the road, street or related reserve. 
   
10.  In cases where a speciﬁ  c public place has been reserved by the Council for a gatherin g of the 
people or for purpose of a show, the Chairman shall not grant permission for any show on a road 
or in a related reserve except at that place. 
   
11.  The fees to be charged for the issuance of a permit under this by-law shall be a fee decided and 
published by the Council by a resolution of motion from time to time. 
   
12.  Acting under a permit obtained from the Chairman under thi s by-law shall be subject to the 
provisions of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinan ce and the regulations made 
under it. 
That Traﬃ  c 
should not be 
disrupted.
Fees

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
13.  It is lawful for the Chairman to cancel a permit issued un der this by-law at any time when the 
Chairman is satisﬁ ed that there are factors causing an epidemic in the authority are, and upon such 
cancellation the amount charged for a permit shall be released to the applicant. 
   
14  It is an oﬀ  ense to hold a show in a road, street in the authority area without a permit to be obtained 
under this by-law or to act in violation of the provisions of t his by-law and after being convicted 
by a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable to a penalty unde r Sub-section 153 (2) of the Urban 
Council Ordinance, Chapter 255.  
15  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in th is By-law;
  The "Council" means the Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  The "Chairman" means the current Chairman of the Urban Counci l or the person performs the 
duties of that position, and
 
  The "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of that position related to 
the division of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the relevant area. 
   
16.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
BY - LAW 
USE AND MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC LATRINES
1.  The objective of the enforcement of this By - law is to reg ulate the use and maintenance of Public 
Latrine System in this Peliyagoda Urban Council authority area. 
   
2.  This By - Law is cited as the By Law for regulating the use  and maintenance of Public Latrines 
within the authority area of Peliyagoda Urban Council.  
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these By - laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub- section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
 
4.  It shall be the responsibility of the Sabha to maintain Pub lic Latrine facilities in the places where 
general public gather, within the authority area of Peliyagoda Urban Council (hereinafter refers as 
authority area).  
   
5.  All Public Latrine facilities within authority area of Urba n Council shall be maintained with clean 
and tidy adequately under the sanitary requirement and shall be well maintained. 
Short Title
Cancellation of
the license
Penalty
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency
between texts

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
5A
6.  Separate facilities for men, women and for persons with dis abilities should be maintained in each 
public Latrine maintained by the Sabha.
   
7.  All public Latrines within the authority area of Urban Coun cil shall be maintained in accordance 
with the conditions prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to be maintained for the beneﬁ t 
of the public health. 
   
8.  Adequate water supply should be maintained permanently for all public Latrines and water 
storage facilities shall also be provided for this purpose.  
   
9.  All public Latrines shall be easily accessible to both men and women as well as persons with 
disabilities.  
   
10.  Each Latrine should have facilities such as hand washing w ith proper, permanent water connection 
in a designated area with a basin made of stainless steel and should always have facilities with the 
adequate sanitary wipers, detergent and hand drying facilities also be provided. 
   
11.  Each public Latrine should have separate cloth racks in ea ch compartment and should also be 
provided with space to keep the belongings. 
   
12.  Adequate number of foot operated dust bins should be kept in each compartment of every public 
Latrine for the public use.   
   
13.  If there are any masks or gloves worn by the users of the public Latrine, the masks or gloves 
should be disposed in to the foot operated dust bins. This speciﬁ cally stated on the dust bins.
 
14  The surface of all the public Latrine should be made of cem ent or porcelain so that the water does 
not retain and slip easily and the ﬂ oor should be prepared so that water can drain easily. 
 
15   (01)  Instructions on speciﬁ  c sanitary measures to be followed by the public Latrine users  for 
protection of public health to be displayed in the public Latrine premises for easy understanding.
  
   (02) All persons who use public Latrines shall act in accord ance with the relevant 
instructions.  
   
16.  A latrine shall always be cleaned and be kept under sanita ry condition and germicide should 
be used when cleaning and shall be well maintained and staﬀ  should be deployed to ensure the 
cleanliness.     
  
17.  Adequate lighting should be provided in all public Latrine s. 
   
18.  If the Sabah decides to charge a fee for the services prov ided in public Latrines within the 
authority area, a notice shall be prepared and aﬃ  xed in all three languages clearly with regard to 
the available facilities and the fees charged.   
The Sabha should
maintain public
Latrine facilities
Charge a fee

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
19.  When using public Latrines, the accumulated waste should b e disposed in accordance with the 
speciﬁ c procedure and the disposal of masks and gloves used should b e considered as medical 
waste and disposed accordingly. 
    
20.  The utensils used in public Latrines should be cleaned wit h water after every use and then keep 
them ready for the easy use of others. 
    
21.  If a public Latrine is maintained by a second party on beh alf of the Shaba, the provisions of this 
by-law shall applicable to all public Latrine so maintained by the second party. The compliance 
of provisions of this by-law shall be monitored regularly by th e assigned employees, appointed 
for this purpose. 
    
22.  In addition to the provisions of this By-Law, the users of  public Latrine shall also abide by 
provisions of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinan ce, when prescribed or applied 
to any epidemic situation.  
   
23.  It shall be lawful to restrict the use of any public Latri ne within the authority are for the beneﬁ t of 
public health for a speciﬁ ed period of time, to restrict its use, or to suspend it tempo rarily by the 
Chairman as prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.   
    
24.  Taking into the consideration of the factors that may caus e or spread of any epidemic disease 
within the authority area declared by the Quarantine and Preven tion of Diseases Ordinance, the 
Chairman shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the use of public Latrine is accordance with 
the instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health prior to the use Latrine by the public.  
25.  Prior to the use of public Latrine in connection with the steps under section 24 above, the Chairman 
shall display the instructions in a manner that is easily visible to the user of the public Latrine in 
accordance with instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.   
    
26.  All public Latrines should be cleaned with antiseptic according to a spec iﬁ c daily schedule in a 
manner that no odor is emitted, while such cleaning activities shall be recorded in a report kept in 
the premises. The Chairman shall implement an appropriate program to regulate the continuity of 
the clean-up operations.  
    
27.  No matter whatever stated in the above clauses of this by- law, there shall not be any impediment 
by any provision of this by-law to the implementation of the pr ovisions of the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance or any regulation obtained thereon.  
    
28.  If a Public Latrine is maintained on behalf of the Council  under the administration of a second 
party, the provisions of this by-law shall apply to all public Latrines so maintained and shall 
always be deemed to have been applicable.  
 
29.  If a fee is charged for the use of a public Latrine, a rec eipt shall be issued to the user for the 
speciﬁ c amount so charged. 
Obtaining the
assistance of a
second party
Use of public 
Latrines
during an 
epidemic situation

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
7A
30.  It is an oﬀ  ense for any person who act in violation of a provision of thi s by-law and after being 
convicted by an authorized court, the person shall be liable to a penalty under Sub-section 153 (2) 
of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255. 
    
31.  For the purpose of these By - Laws, unless the context oth erwise requires;
  “Sabah” means the Peliyagoda Urban Council
  “Chairman” means Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban Council or the person executes the duties 
of the chairman. 
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person holding the post of the Medic al Oﬃ  cer of Health 
in the relevant area of the Urban Council area.         
    
32.  If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhala, Tamil and Eng lish texts in this By-law, the Sinhala 
texts will prevail. 
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING PUBLIC HEALTH CARE FACILITIES
1.  This By-law is enacted for the control and management of pu blic health care facilities in the 
Peliyagoda Urban Council area. 
   
2.  This By-law is cited the by-law on the control and manageme nt of public health care facilities in 
the Peliyagoda Urban Council  Area. 
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these By- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub- section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
 
4.  Public health care facilities implemented in the Peliyagoda . Urban Council area (hereinafter 
referred to as Authority area) shall be necessary to maintain i t in an appropriate manner. The 
Chairman shall, in consultation with the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, take such action. 
   
5.  The Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health and all Public Health Inspectors in the authori ty area shall be 
treated as oﬃ  cers of the Sabha for the purpose of controlling and managing  the public health 
facilities operated by the Sabha.
 
   
Penalty
Deﬁ nition
Discrepancy
among the 
medium
Short Title
The Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health 
and the Public 
Health Inspectors 
shall be treated as 
oﬃ  cers of the 
Sabha

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
6.  The Chairman may delegate any of the powers and functions c onferred on him under any 
written law in the control and management of public health faci lities in the Authority area to the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspectors subject to the provisions of the relevant 
written law.
 
7.  The management of public health care facilities related to the following services operated by the 
Sabha in the authority area shall be carried out under the supe rvision of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health.
  1. Waste management activities in the area
  2. Maternal and Child Health Clinics
  3. Public toilets and latrines
  4. Public Market Services
  5. Maintaining slaughterhouses 
   
8.  In the event of any outbreak of any epidemic aﬀ  ecting the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the Regulations made under it, or any other regul ation applicable under that 
Ordinance, shall be maintained by the Sabha. All regulations re garding the maintenance of 
services shall be made by the Chairman in accordance with the recommendations of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
9.  A report prepared on the recommendations to be implemented for the next month in the proper 
maintenance of the public health facilities maintained by the S abha and a monthly report on the 
activities related to the management of the public health facil ities relevant to the public health 
in the area with respect to the previous month shall be submitt ed by the the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health to the Sabha every month. 
10.  The recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health shall be submitted to the Sabha in respect 
of every measure applicable to the control and management of th e relevant health care facilities 
in the authority exercise of the Sabha within the authority are a of the Public Health Authority 
conferred by the written law. 
   
11.  Health protection to be enforced in the authority area in case of any contagious disease within 
the authority area or in case of a disease situation connected under the Quarantine or Prevention 
of Diseases Ordinance and the orders made under it, steps shall  be taken by the Chairman in 
consultation with the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
12.  In a determination made under Article 11 above, it is the duty of the ordering person 
to duly provide such prescribed information to the prescribed p ersons within the prescribed 
time. 
   
13.  Information to be collected in order to prevent the spread  of an epidemic or any contagious 
disease within the authority area applicable to the regulations  made under the Quarantine and 
Under the
supervision of the
Medical Oﬃ  cer of
Health
Making 
Regulations
Monthly Report
Obtaining details
Delegate of 
powers

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
9A
Prevention of diseases Ordinance. It is lawful for a Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to direct any person 
to provide data to himself or to an authorized authority. 
   
14.  If a person who has obtained the relevant order in accorda nce with an order under Section 12 
above, does not act in accordance with Section 13 above and after being convicted by a Magistrate 
Court under Sub-section Sub-section 153 (2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 shall 
be subjected to a penalty. 
15.  It is the duty of the Chairman to maintain a proper arrang ement under the Head Oﬃ  ce of the 
Sabha and all sub-oﬃ  ces for the execution of the functions prescribed and delegat ed under this 
By-Law. 
   
16.  Unless other meanings are required in relation to the term s of this by-law, this By-law;
 
  “Sabha” refers  the Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  “Chairman” refers those who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban Council at 
present or perform the duties of that oﬃ  ce,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the  Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the Urban Council area.
  "Public Health Inspector" refers a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the oﬃ  ce of the Urban Council or Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health attached to the authority area of 
the Urban Council.
  "Person" refers to a person or in case of an organization, th e Managing Director or Manager of 
the organization or any person acting on behalf of that organization, 
  
17.  If there are inconsistencies between the Sinhala, Tamil an d English texts in this By-law, the 
Sinhala text will prevail. 
Penalty

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
BY-LAW 
REGULATING RESTAURANTS
1.  This By-law will be enacted to regularize and monitor the r estaurants, hotels and canteens 
which are preparing, selling and provide dine in facilities of foods such as bakery and other food 
productions as cooked food, tea, coﬀ ee within the Peliyagoda Urban Council area. 
   
2.  This By-law is called the By-Law on Restaurants of the Peli yagoda Urban Council. 
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub- section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
 
4.  Anyone within the territory of the Peliyagoda Urban Council  (hereinafter referred to as the 
territory) shall not maintain restaurants, hotels, canteens and  cafeterias (hereinafter referred to 
as premises) which are preparing, selling and provide dine in f acilities of foods such as bakery 
and other food productions as cooked food, tea, coﬀ ee except under a license obtained from the 
Chairman under this by-law.  
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application form 
prepared in accordance with the Schedule of this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above clause may be made by completing the relevant 
requirements and by submitting through registered post, by hand , or by e-mail to the extent 
permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  Anyone applying for a license under this by-law must have f ulﬁ lled the following 
conditions. 
   
 (1) All constructions related to the premises should be constr uctions as per the plan approved 
under the Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or un der the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance and,
  (A) The material used in all constructions shall be prepared in such a way that the toxic material 
does not emit toxins and does not emit toxic gases and all surfaces should be constructed not 
to be easily retained by organisms.
  (B) The internal layout should be designed with adequate spac e to enable the service to be 
performed without interruption.
  (C) The food raw material and cooked food should be stored in  a space designed with a safe 
preparation to prevent the ingress of toxins.
  (D) The premises shall be designed to check the hygienic cond itions of the internal food.
 
  (E) Disposal under the internal processing activities of the premises shall be arranged with 
references that will not be returned in any way.
Short Title
That a license 
should
be obtained
Applying for a 
License
Conditions for a
license

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
11A
 (2)  At the food processing area on the premises,
  (A) Floors and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and water-repellent material.
  (B) All surfaces shall be free from detergents and disinfecta nts which can be easily cleaned.
  (C) The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation  and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.
  (D) If there are windows and other openings, they should be c overed with insect repellent.
  (E) Absorbent fans shall be placed for easy ﬂ  ow of outside air and exhaust air.
   
 (3) With respect to the catering area on the premises,
  (A) Adequate space should be provided for customers to sit in dividually and in groups.
  (B) When the relevant part of the catering area is an open sp ace to the environment, it should be 
well ventilated and inaccessible to birds and other animals.
  (C) Speciﬁ  c toilets shall be constructed for customers and shall be located at a suﬃ  cient distance 
and in other directions with automatic closing doors.
  (D) If the catering area is an enclosed space, air conditioni ng or ventilation should be provided 
and fans as well as absorbing fans should be installed.
  (E) Adequate space should be provided for services to move fo od here and there.
  (F) Hand washing facilities should be provided before and aft er meals and promotional 
advertisements and guidelines should be aﬃ  xed.
  (G) Tables and chairs should be made of easy-to-clean and wat erproof material.
   
 (4) Ensure that air conditioners operate at adequate temperatu res when adequate ventilation or air 
conditioning is provided in the premises, and that all air conditioning systems should be airtight.
     
 (5) For those working on the premises,
  (A) If they are residing, the accommodation should have adequ ate sanitary facilities and that place 
should be in a place separate from the food preparation, food p roduction or raw material 
storage area.
  (B) A minimum of four square meters of space should be reserv ed for one person to sleep while 
being a resident employee.
  (C) Separate toilet and bathroom facilities should be provide d for both men and women.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (6) The internal structure of the premises should be designed so that customers can order food with 
adequate space with physical distance when required. 
   
 (7) Facilities should be provided for persons with disabilitie s and persons with special needs to enter 
in accordance with the prescribed standards. 
   
 (8) There should be adequate parking facilities for customers.  
   
 (9) Automatic generators and water storage facilities should b e available in the event of a power 
outage of suﬃ  cient capacity to be utilized in the event of an emergency po wer outage or water 
connection failure. 
   
 (10) Internal drainage and eﬄ   uent discharge from the premises shall be directed to a ditch  or suction 
pit, exceeding 15.25 m from the water source. 
   
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a lic ense under this by-law the Chairman;
 (1) Shall issue a license for the premises to the applicant in  accordance with the information contained 
in Article 6.
 (2) If the conditions mentioned in Article 6 are not complied with, the relevant application should be 
rejected with reasons. 
  
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be determined and 
declared annually by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
 (2) It should be lawful for the council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license 
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31st of the year in which the license applies. 
   
11.  All persons licensed under this by-law shall act in accord ance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
 (1) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman from t ime to time under the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been  declared 
throughout Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or in any pa rt of the territory or in any 
case where an epidemic has been declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, the premises shall be mai ntained subject to each 
such rule 
   
 (2) Every person employed on the premises shall, in accordance  with the regulations made under 
the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, act in accordance with all orders made by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic is 
declared. 
Issuing a license
Fees for a license
Validity period
Teting fees
Conditions 
applicable
to a license

<!-- page 13 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
13A
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the area o f territory, service should not be 
provided to all persons who visit the premises seeking services unless it is in accordance with the 
relevant health instructions issued. 
   
 (4) Health safety instructions imposed by the Director General  of Health Services or the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman as per their instructions in  the event of an epidemic or risk 
of an epidemic in the area of  territory, should be implemented and the licensee should be satisﬁ ed 
of doing so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises should be maintained in such a way that they can be easily drained, and 
waste water, sewage discharged from the premises should be diverted to the soakage pits, septic 
tank or central treatment unit according to the approved methods and necessary measures should 
be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) All toilets and washrooms on the premises should be cleane d regularly with disinfectant and 
proper arrangements should be made to ensure that they are being done so. 
   
 (7) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises should be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily, and 
in case of any inconvenience during cleaning, sign boards should be kept in that place so that the 
customers can see them. 
   
 (8) Drainage system should be free of retention of water and c leaned twice daily with 
disinfectants. 
   
 (9) No drains, sewage pipes, or culverts on the premises shoul d be routed to any public drain or 
outlying area. 
   
 (10) The premises should be maintained in such a way that ther e is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (11) Adequate facilities should be in place to regulate the te mperature required for cooking and 
refrigeration, and records should be maintained to that eﬀ ect. 
   
 (12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shou ld be maintained in accordance with the 
following requirements. 
   
  (A) All utensils and equipment used in food preparation shall  be made of non-absorbent materials 
that do not emit any toxic substances, ﬂ  avors or odors and should be made of stainless 
materials.
  (B) All equipment and tools should be of a nature as to be ea sily cleaned.
  (C) Containers used for disposal of waste should be made of m etal or non-corrosive materials 
with lids.
  (D) All equipment, tool maintained must be of a condition sui table to be used. 
   

<!-- page 14 -->

14A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (13) If food is to be distributed outside the premises during production, there must be a designated area 
for it. 
   
 (14) Containers used for food distribution should be such that  they can be distributed in a manner that 
does not harm the taste of the food. 
   
 (15) Premises should have separate refrigeration facilities fo r storing goods used for food preparation 
and cooked food or similar.  
   
 (16) Premises should have water storage facilities and the rel evant containers should be 
stainless. 
   
 (17) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation should be thoroughly washed, cleaned and 
used. 
   
 (18) Water used in the premises should be kept in non-hazardou s containers free from being 
polluted. 
   
 (19) The ice used in the premises should be made from drinking  water. 
   
 (20) Pipelines carrying water within the premises should be maintained so that they can be separately 
identiﬁ ed from any other pipeline. 
   
 (21) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement should be in place to ensure that all cooked food on the premises 
is delivered to the lodgers without hazard, and that persons with speciﬁ c tasks should be employed 
to regulate it. 
   
 (22) Fish and meat brought in for serving should be stored in a separate refrigerator on the premises 
and should always be kept at a temperature of two degrees witho ut being contaminated Celsius 
until used. 
   
 (23) Relevant prices for all food items for sale on-premises m ust be displayed under the sample or 
otherwise. 
   
 (24) If an epidemic has been declared under the Quarantine and  Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
within the territory and regulations applicable to it or if there is a requirement that all persons in 
the territory should wear masks when entering the society due to the risk of any epidemic disease, 
no person without wearing a mask should be allowed to enter the premises for dealings. 
   
 (25) All food items kept on the premises must be kept safe fro m contact with anyone outside the 
premises and the ordered food must be served after the food has been ordered. No food or leftovers 
so served should be kept for resale, and if there are any leftovers of the served food, they should 
be given to the person who ordered it to be taken. 
   
 (26) Food for sale on the premises should not be kept in such a way as to cause contamination, and all 
activities such as serving food, packing for transportation, et c. should be carried out in a proper 
manner using appropriate gloves.
 

<!-- page 15 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
15A
 (27) By everyone involved in serving, consuming, or packing fo od on the premises;
  (A) Should not touch food with your hands or ﬁ  ngers openly.
  (B) Money should not be used while engaging in any form of se rvice.
  (C) Utensils and gloves used for touching food should be in a  good condition to be used.
  (D) A clean towel should be used to wipe both hands.
  (E) The bottom of a used cup, plate or other container should  always be kept out of contact with 
any food.
  (F) All utensils used for food serving should be kept clean a nd in separate containers.
  (G) Employees should work to ensure that any of their work or  a container will not in any way 
cause food contamination or germs to be spread in a container.
  (H) What is taken for food wrapping should not be a source of  food poisoning in any way. 
   
 (28) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman under  the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been decla red in the territory or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, all persons engaged preparati on, consumption, serving and 
packing of food should maintain the premises in accordance with  the orders of the Chairman 
issued under the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
the Public Health Inspector , in addition to the provisions of this By-Laws. 
   
 (29) Facilities should be provided to pre-ordered and take -aw ay food as much as possible, a separate 
window on the premises should be maintained for that purpose an d instead of placing menus 
on tables, they should be placed so that the recipes are displa yed on a screen as much as 
possible. 
   
 (30) (A) Any work related to the production of food in the pre mises shall not be carried out in such a 
manner as to open it to a public road or public space, or to op en air from such a public road 
or open space to the public, and food should be prepared in a specially enclosed space within 
the premises.
  (B) Chimneys and suction fans shall be installed so that hot air and steam generated in the 
enclosed space for food production can ﬂ ow easily.
  (C) Noise from any approved activity in food production shall  be in such a manner as not to 
disturb the public or consumers in any way.
 
 (31) Tables for serving and dine in on the premises should be kept very clean and disinfected after 
each serving and use and the towels used should be kept clean. 
   

<!-- page 16 -->

16A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (32) Surfaces in the premises that come in contact with custom ers should be cleaned regularly with 
disinfectant. 
   
 (33) All cooked food that can be easily contaminated on the premises should be kept at a temperature 
not exceeding four degrees Celsius or not less than sixty degrees Celsius except in the following 
cases. Occasions where this is not applicable should be as follows.
 
  (A) In cases where the food is not exposed or displayed for s ale for a whole time of more than two 
hours; or
  (B) When the preparation and presentation are to be made with in an short period of time. 
   
 (34) All cooked food as pastries, patties, savories, pizza and  similar food contain meat or ﬁ sh that is 
normally sold on the premises and consumed in the condition whi ch the food is sold should be 
kept in containers with covers. 
   
 (35) Milk for use on the premises should be kept in a refriger ator at a temperature not exceeding seven 
degrees Celsius. 
   
 (36) Suﬃ   cient hand washing facilities with sanitizers and hand drying  facilities should be provided 
in the processing area of the premises and in the dine in areas  and adequate lighting should be 
maintained in the premises. 
   
 (37) Pesticides kept in the premises should be kept in a seale d container at a speciﬁ  c place in the 
premises. 
   
 (38) The area for staﬀ   facilities in the premises should be spacious and with necess ary sanitary 
facilities and toilets for both men and women should be maintai ned in accordance with sanitary 
standards. 
   
 (39) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, it should be maintained in such a way that it 
does not aﬀ ect the things used in the premises in any way and thus does not cause contamination 
of food. 
   
 (40) Cleaning activities in premises should be carried out on a regular basis subject to the following:
  (A) A speciﬁ  c task assignment should be maintained regarding activities such as the satisfactorily 
carrying out all parts of the institution and cleaning prioriti zing the speciﬁ c areas described 
in this by-law and application of disinfectants
  (B) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the w ork under (A) above is carried out 
precisely.
  (C) Appropriate cleaning should be done to prevent dust durin g food preparation, serving, packing 
and consumption on the premises.
  (D) All utensils used in the serving and consumption of food shall be maintained in such a manner 
that no portions of cooked food remain.

<!-- page 17 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
17A
  (E) The water used for cleaning, detergent disinfectants shou ld be washed so that the does not 
remain on the dishes in any way.
  (F) The ceiling, walls, etc. of the premises shall be kept fr ee from any insects. 
  
 (41) Pets such as dogs and cats should not be kept on the prem ises in any way. 
   
 (42) Employees working on the premises should be trained in fo od hygiene and should be subjected to 
medical examinations within a speciﬁ ed period of time to ensure that they are in suitable health 
condition. Relevant records should also be maintained at the premises so that they can be inspected 
at any time. Also the health check-ups for them should be both clinical and epidemiological. 
 
 (43) A health monitoring system should be set up for employees  employed on the premises and a 
process should be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (44) The waste generated on the premises should be maintained in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the council and in accordance  with the written rules 
applicable to it. 
   
 (45) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the licensee himself, the Public Health 
Inspector in charge of the relevant area should be informed and  should act accordingly in 
accordance with the instructions given by him. 
   
 (46) Everyone working on the premises should not engage in coo king packing, serving of food or 
work without necessarily cleaning after using the toilet and after touching dirt, and everyone who 
engage in those type of work should wear a clean and pocket-free apron. 
   
 (47) Those who work as cashiers on the premises should clean t heir hands frequently using 
sanitizers. 
   
 (48) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities should be provided on the premises. 
   
 (49) The number of persons that can be provided with dine in f acilities in the premises should be 
displayed on the premises. 
   
 (50) In the event of an outbreak of any instruction in the com munity to use gloves or masks in the 
community, if any person entering the premises disposes of the mask or gloves they are wearing 
on the premises, the masks or gloves should be disposed to clos ed containers speciﬁ ed on the 
premises. Those waste should be disposed in accordance with the  waste management program 
and instructions implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes. 
   
 (51) Anyone entering the premises for dine in should clean the ir hands from the area speciﬁ  cally 
designated for this purpose. 
   
 (52) Everyone who dine in and take-away food from the premises  should maintain proper 
distance. 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (53) Everyone who dine in on the premises should be as hygieni c as possible and always wear head 
coverings, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate hygienic clothing. 
   
 (54) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a vector or 
infected with wounds, skin infections or any other infectious disease should not be employed on 
the premises.  
   
 (55) Everyone dine in on the premises should not engage in act ivities such as smoking, spitting, 
coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose, which can cause food contamination. 
   
 (56) Under no circumstances should anyone on the premises be a llowed to dine in with any indication 
that they may be suﬀ ering from an infectious or transmissible disease. 
   
 (57) If any person comes to the premises for dine in or an emp loyee of the premises infected with a 
transmissible disease, infectious or skin disease, the licensee  should inform the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health and after informing all persons involved in the premises should act in accordance with 
the quarantine instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or an authorized Public Health 
Inspector. 
   
 (58) Once the premises have been subjected to the quarantine p rocess, no one shall enter the premises 
for dine in until the issuance of a certiﬁ cate of completion of the quarantine period by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector and until the pr emises have been completely 
disinfected. 
   
 (59) The licensee must take every step to maintain the premise s in such a way that it does not cause 
food contamination during food consumption in any manner. 
   
 (60) Relevant instructions should be prominently displayed on the premises and should act upon 
accordingly so that everyone who dine in on the premises can le arn about the health precautions 
that take place on the premises. 
   
 (61) The licensee must have provided all information about the  employees working on the premises to 
the Chairman. 
   
12. (1) It shall also be lawful for the Chairman to grade a premises relevant to this by-law in accordance 
with the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into account the eﬃ  cacy of 
the conditions under this by-law.  
   
 (2) When the Chairman has graded the premises under this secti on, the grade of the premises for 
the year relevant to the license and a certiﬁ cate issued by the Chairman shall be displayed on the 
premises for the public to see. 
   
13.  It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any ot her oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the necessary samples to inspect the premises 
in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
   
14.  When the Chairman has recommended that the licensee should  enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking 
into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, the licensee should enter 
Grading premises
On-site inspection
and obtaining
samples

<!-- page 19 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
19A
into a statement of agreement with the Chairman and the Chairma n should send a copy to the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
15.  When an order is in force under the Quarantine and Prevent ion of Disease Ordinance in respect 
of any epidemic situation relating to the territory, the premises shall be maintained in accordance 
with all the provisions of that Order. 
   
16.  It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any ot her oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman 
to enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the nece ssary samples and to inspect the 
premises in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
   
17. (1) In the event of a violation of the provisions of this by-law or in a manner contrary to the provisions 
of this by-law in a premises licensed under this by-law, the Ch airman should hand over a notice 
to the licensee to be compliance with the by-law notifying a speciﬁ ed period not exceeding thirty 
days. 
   
 (2) Upon submission of a notice under this section to the Lice nsee, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time on a reasonable request to grant an additional period to act in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The period which is gran ted so should be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
18.  The Chairman should cancel the relevant license in the eve nt that the licensee fails to comply with 
the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above. 
   
19.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license obtained under t his by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of the by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court, he/she 
shall be liable to a penalty under sub-section 153(2) of the Ur ban Council Ordinance,
Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, and in the event of further 
breach of the law after a notice has been given by the Chairman  or an oﬃ  cer authorized by 
him, breach of the law must be subject to an additional ﬁ ne referred to in sub-section 153 (2) of 
the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 for each day in which they continue the breach of 
the law. 
   
20.  Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By-law;
 
            “Council” means the Peliyagoda Urban Council,
             “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Urban Council at 
present or the persons who perform the duties of that position,
        "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the  Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the Urban Council area.
        “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ  ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the the Urban Council or oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health working in the territory of the 
Urban Council.
Power to enter the
premises
Cancellation of
the license
Penalty
Clariﬁ cation

<!-- page 20 -->

20A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
              "Licensee" means an institution or a person who h as obtained a license under this 
by-law,
            "Authorized Oﬃ  cer" means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council at that 
time.
           "Contamination" refers to the entry or occurrence of  any contamination substance in a food 
substance,
           "Disinfectants" reduce the amount of microorganisms in the environment by chemicals or physical 
means that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food.
            "Food hygiene" refers to all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all times in the food chain.
           A "hazard" is a biological, chemical, or condition t hat is likely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects.
          "Food safety" also means the responsibility of the co nsumer to prepare, process, sell, store, 
transport, and not cause any harm to the consumer during or after dine in.
          "Food" refers to the products used to prepare food an d food being prepared for sale in a institution 
maintained for human consumption,
          "Reasonable time" refers to any time engaged in a lic ensed activity or related work,
          "Basic Law" refers to the Urban Council Ordinance, Ch apter 255. 
   
21.  If there are variations between the Sinhala, English and T amil texts in this By-law, then the 
Sinhala text will prevail. 
Variation between
texts

<!-- page 21 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
21A
First Schedule
Application for Trade License for the Year........................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Telephone Number: -
05. Nature of the business: -
06. Start year: -
07. Address of the place of business: -
08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
10. If the business has obtained name registration, its reference number: -
11. Information of the manager or agent of the place of business,
I. Name and personal address
II. National Identity Card Number
III. Phone Number    Mobile: -    Fixed: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request that a business license to be issued to me for the ye ar ............................ for the place where the 
industry, business mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules and regulations on this regard.
Date:-  ……………………………….
   Signature of the applicant.
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-         .................................
   Secretary.
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date :-         …………………………….
  Revenue Inspector.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
Date:-  ............................   
      Secretary.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
Date :-                       ...............................   
 Public Health Inspector.
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-                       ........................   
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health.

<!-- page 23 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
23A
BY-LAW 
REGULATING OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROUS TRADE 
1.  This By-law is enforced to regulate, supervise, and control  the oﬀ ensive dangerous trade conducted 
within the authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Council. 
    
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law of the Peliyagoda. Urban  Council relating oﬀ  ensive and 
dangerous trade. 
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said Ordinance.
 
4.  It shall be lawful for the Urban Council to determine and publish from time-to-time which trades 
are oﬀ ensive trades, dangerous trades and oﬀ  ensive and dangerous trades are relevant to the 
purpose of this By-law among the trades established and maintai ned within the authority area of 
the Peliyagoda Urban Council (hereinafter referred to the authority area). 
   
5.  No person shall engage in any form of oﬀ  ensive trade, dangerous trade or oﬀ ensive and dangerous 
trade (hereinafter referred to trade) as declared under section  3 above in any premises located 
within the authority area except under a license obtained from the Chairman of the Urban 
Council. 
   
6.  Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall a pply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule of this By-law. 
   
7.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by submitting the application 
by fulﬁ lling the requirements by registered post, handing over in hand to the Urban Council or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Urban Council. 
   
8.  It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a ﬁ  xed inspection fee for site inspections 
to be carried out prior to the issuance of a license in respect  of each application made under this 
by-law. 
   
9.  The Chairman shall not issue a license in this regard unles s all the persons applying for a license 
under this By-law have fulﬁ lled the following:
   
 (1) If there are permanent constructions under the premises wh ere the trade is being carried out 
(hereinafter referred to as the premises), the relevant constructions should be constructions made 
in accordance with a plan approved under the Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 
or under the Housing and Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) If the area is zoned in accordance with the provisions of the Urban Development Authority 
Act, No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Development Ordinance, t he premises should be set up 
accordingly. 
   
 (3) All relevant constructions shall be in a properly ﬁ  nished but shall be constructed in such a way as 
not to adversely aﬀ ect the trade conducted on the premises in any way. 
Short name
That a license
shall be 
obtained
Applying for a 
License
Inspection fees
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 24 -->

24A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (4) The premises shall have space to enable the relevant opera tions to be carried out at a suﬃ  cient 
distance. 
   
 (5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a way as to maintain proper 
cleanliness. 
   
 (6) If there is a manufacturing process on the premises, the p art for it shall be speciﬁ cally separated 
and the premises shall be designed to prevent customers from en tering it in any way except for 
those who are engaged in the relevant activities. 
   
 (7) If there are storage facilities in the premises, the relev ant warehouses should be arranged in 
accordance with the proper safety standards and suitable for the purpose and shall be in a safe and 
proper condition with adequate space. 
   
 (8) The premises shall be properly lighted and ventilated, or artiﬁ cially meet the 
requirements. 
   
 (9) The ﬂ  oor of the construction section and the non-construction secti on shall be prepared with a 
suitable slope so that it can be easily cleaned and easily drained. 
   
 (10) The walls of the buildings on the premises shall be made of water-repellent material that can be 
easily cleaned, and the ceiling shall be installed for the part s where the trade is carried out other 
than those used for operations. 
   
 (11) Doors and windows used for buildings on the premises shal l have a smooth surface so that they 
do not absorb water and doors for restricted areas shall be ﬁ  tted in such a manner as to close 
automatically. 
   
 (12) The premises shall have a ﬁ  re protection program in place and a ﬁ re safety certiﬁ cate should be 
obtained as applicable.
 
 (13) All drains installed in and around the premises shall be arranged in such a way which can easily 
drain waste water and shall be directed to the culverts or cent ral treatment unit so that it is not 
open to the environment. 
   
 (14) Soakage pits, suction pits installed in the premises shal l be positioned in accordance with the 
approved plan and should be set at a distance of at least 15.25 m from a water source and should 
not be exposed to air. 
   
 (15) When discharging sewage and feces on the premises,
  (A) It shall not in any way be allowed to ﬂ  ow into a public waterway, public drain, road or any 
other open area.
  (B) The soakage pit or suction pit to which they are directed  shall not be exposed to the air and 
shall be prepared in such a manner as not to pollute the ground water due to that pit.
  (C) The relevant soakage pit or suction pit shall be at least  15.25 m from any water 
source. 

<!-- page 25 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
25A
 (16) If chemical waste water produced due to a manufacturing p rocess on the premises, it should not 
be disposed of without treatment under the direction of a speciﬁ c authority. 
   
 (17) (A) Adequate supply of drinking water to the premises sha ll be provided and water storage 
facilities shall be provided.
  (B) Water storage tanks shall be of suﬃ   cient height and the water stored there shall not be polluted 
in any way.
  (C) If drinking water and non-drinking water are to be used i n the premises, the drinking water 
shall be carried through separate pipelines so as not to be mixed with the non-drinking water, 
and such pipes shall be painted in diﬀ erent colors. 
   
 (18) For employees working in the premises,
  (A) If employed as a resident, there shall be accommodation f acilities with adequate sanitary 
facilities.
  (B) When providing residential facilities, the accommodation facilities should be at least four 
square meters per person.
  (C) Adequate toilet facilities for the residents shall be kep t separate from those of men and women 
and shall be of proper standard.
  (D) If there are sections relevant to the business function a nd manufacturing functions the 
residents' section of the premises shall be maintained separately. 
   
 (19) Adequate space shall be provided for customers visiting t he premises to be able to maintain 
physical distance when required. 
   
 (20) In the event of an epidemic within the authority area und er the Quarantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it, adequate health care facilities shall be 
provided to enable the applicable regulations in such cases. 
   
10.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a l icense to be issued under this by-law, the 
Chairman, 
 (1) Shall issue a permit for the premises to the applicant in accordance with the information under 
section 8. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons in case  of non-compliance with the conditions 
under section 8. 
   
11.  The fee to be charged for a license issued under this by-l aw shall be the fee to be decided and 
published annually by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
12.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until 31st December of the year in which the license applies.
 
Issuing a license
Fees for a license

<!-- page 26 -->

26A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
13.  All persons licensed under this by-law shall act in accord ance with the conditions set out 
herein. 
   
 (1) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman from t ime to time under the instructions of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or in any part of the territory or in any case where an epidemic 
has been declared under the regulations made under the Quaranti ne and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained subject to each such rule. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all orders made by the Chairman 
on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in respect of any epidemic declared under the 
Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or any regulations made thereon. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, services should not be 
provided on the premises unless the person seeking employment c omes in accordance with the 
health instructions issued to control the spread of the disease. 
   
 (4) Health safety instructions imposed by the Director General  of Health Services or the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman as per their instructions in  the event of an epidemic or risk 
of an epidemic in the authority area shall be implemented and the licensee should be satisﬁ ed of 
doing so. 
   
 (5) First aid facilities should be provided relevant to each p remises so that they can be used for 
emergencies and the staﬀ  should be trained for that. 
   
 (6) Adequate ﬁ  re protection system should be installed in the premises and it should be maintained in 
proper condition under proper inspection. Everyone working on the premises should be aware of 
the functioning of the ﬁ re protection system in the premises and should be given an understanding 
through a rehearsal of how to respond in the event of an emergency ﬁ re. 
   
 (7) Premises and employees work in the premises shall be insur ed under appropriate 
insurance. 
   
 (8) Correct information on the area of residence, full name, i dentity card number and telephone 
number of each employee employed on the premises should be main tained and all such 
information should be submitted as recommended by the Chairman. 
   
 (9) In the event of an epidemic in the area, everyone working on the premises shall act in accordance 
with the public health care instructions and the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the 
health care instructions issued by the Chairman in accordance with the instructions of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health, and the licensee shall ensure of it. 
   
 (10) Appropriate arrangements should be made for the disposal of gloves, masks etc. used in the 
premises. 
   
 (11) Thermometer shall be kept in order to measure the body te mperature of all visitors to the premises 
so that it can be used when health advice is given. 
   

<!-- page 27 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
27A
 (12) The premises should be kept clean at all times and relate d activities including disinfection should 
be maintained under proper management. 
   
 (13) If there are any hazardous areas in the premises, the rel evant sign boards should be clearly 
displayed. 
   
 (14) According to the nature of the trade, if there are any ch emicals or other substances that are 
harmful to health, advertisements should be pasted on the dangers and their usage. 
   
 (15) If there are chemicals used and sold on the premises, the y should be securely packaged. 
   
 (16) Anything on the premises should not be aﬀ  ected by the Tools, equipment, oils, disinfectants or 
anything else used for cleaning on the premises.  
   
 (17) Surfaces that are frequently touched when working on the premises shall be regularly cleaned 
with disinfectant. 
   
 (18) No one shall spit on the premises. 
   
 (19) If hand washing is required as a precautionary measure fo r visitors and employees on the premises, 
facilities should be provided for it. 
   
 (20) (A) If hazardous material is stored or moved around the p remises, it should be stored in special 
safety containers.
  (B) Skilled labor shall have been deployed for the above (A).  
   
 (21) For employees working in the premises,
  (A) Adequate bathroom and toilet facilities for men and women  shall be provided and shall be 
properly arranged.
  (B) Restrictions on the activities of residents in a hazardou s premise in accordance with the nature 
of the trade shall be enforced by the licensee and the relevant  notices shall be prominently 
displayed on the premises.
  (C) Adequate security equipment and tools shall be provided a ccording to the form of trade.
  (D) Required training and advice must be provided by the lice nsee to act in accordance with all 
instructions and orders given by the Chairman as per the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health in the event of any epidemic or suspicion of any epid emic situation in the area or 
in any part of the country or throughout Sri Lanka.
  (E) A health monitoring system should be set up in the premis es and a process should be put in 
place to provide necessary advice to the employees.
 
 (22) In the event of an epidemic of transmissible or infectiou s disease in the authority area or in the 
event of a possible cause, the Chairman may instruct that one o r more of the following steps be 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
taken within the premises as recommended by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and those instructions 
given should be implemented by the licensee.
  (A) Shall maintain a distance from each other while working i n the premises.
  (B) The minimum number of employees required for the service shall be employed in small 
groups under several shifts.
  (C) Public gatherings and meetings should not be held within the premises for a speciﬁ ed period 
of time.
  (D) Shall make sure that the body temperature is under the no rmal range upon entering the 
premises.
  (E) Meals shall be provided in small groups on the premises.
  (F) Adequate disinfectant, soap and hand washing facilities h ave been provided to clean the hands 
of the employees and visitors to the premises.
  (G) Masks shall be used while working on the premises, taking  in to account the need.
  (H) Everyone in the premises shall properly implement the res piratory etiquette.
  (I) The activities within the premises shall be limited to a certain period of time.
  (J) The employees working on the premises shall be subjected to health checkups as prescribed 
by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health within a speciﬁ ed period of time. 
   
 (23) The premises shall be cleaned daily and the disinfection process shall be carried out as per a 
schedule according to the situation and the licensee should ensure that it is so. 
   
 (24) The licensee should be aware of the potential risks in co nducting the relevant trade on the 
premises, prescribe the appropriate remedies, etc., and take the necessary action. 
   
 (25) The following measures should be taken in relation to the  waste management of the premises.
  (A) Disposal of waste in the premises shall be carried out in  a proper manner and if the waste is 
disposed in the premises in accordance with the waste managemen t program implemented 
by the Urban Council, the waste should be handed over in accord ance with the relevant 
instructions and regulations.
  (B) Under no circumstances shall the licensee mix hazardous w aste with other waste and hand it 
over.
  (C) In the case of premises not covered by the Solid Waste Ma nagement Service operated by the 
Urban Council, the licensee shall dispose of the waste subject to the conditions recommended 
by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector.

<!-- page 29 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
29A
  (D) If there is a hazardous waste generated in the premises, action shall be taken to dispose of the 
contaminant in accordance with the rules and regulations in force in that regard. 
   
 (26) When the permit applicable to the premises is in force th e licensee shall maintain the premises in 
accordance with all instructions given by the Chairman on the r ecommendation of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health regarding the health safety measures of the emp loyees of the premises and 
visitors to the premises. 
   
 (27) The premises shall be maintained so as not to cause any odor or any other disturbance caused by 
any raw material or product or its by-product. 
   
 (28) Packing height shall not exceed 1.5 m above ground level unless adequate security measures are 
in place when storing the manufacturing products on the premise s or products for sale on the 
premises. 
   
 (29) When the goods sold on the premises are governed by any o ther written law such as agrochemicals, 
chemicals or drugs, the relevant license shall be displayed on the premises in a manner that is 
properly visible to consumers. 
   
 (30) All items for sale within the premises shall be packaged separately. 
   
 (31) If emissions are released in to the environment under pro ducts for sale on the premises, its release 
shall comply with the regulations of the Central Environmental Authority. 
   
 (32) If noise is generated during activities on the premises, it shall be controlled in accordance with 
the regulations of the Central Environmental Authority. 
   
 (33) Tools, water tanks, stoves and other equipment used in th e premises shall be properly cleaned and 
maintained after use. 
   
 (34) Any prohibited chemical for any purpose on the premises s hall not be used. 
   
 (35) All electrical wiring in the premises shall be properly m aintained and a report shall be obtained 
from an electrical engineer or a qualiﬁ ed professional at least once in every two years. 
   
 (36) The extent of the premises reserved for customers shall n ot be used for any other use. 
   
 (37) Every place, tools, utensils on the premises shall not be  kept in a manner of spreading mosquitoes, 
any other larvae or insects. 
   
 (38) A vector or infected person suﬀ  ering from or suspected of having an infectious disease shall 
not be employed on the premises and the licensee should be sati sﬁ ed that such person is not 
employed. 
   
14.  A license issued under this by-law and the copies in three  languages of this by-law shall be 
displayed in all licensed premises. 
That the license 
shall
be displayed

<!-- page 30 -->

30A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
15.  When the Chairman has recommended that the licensee shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking 
into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, the licensee shall enter 
into a statement of agreement with the Chairman and the Chairma n shall send a copy to the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
16.  It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publ ic Health Inspector or any other 
authorized oﬃ  cer to enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain th e necessary samples 
and to inspect the premises in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
   
17. (1) In the event of a violation of the provisions of this By-Law or any other contrary to the provisions 
of this By-Law in a premises licensed under this By-Law, the Chairman shall hand over a notice 
to the licensee to be compliance with the by-law notifying a speciﬁ ed period not exceeding thirty 
days. 
   
 (2) Upon submission of a notice under this section to the lice nsee, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time on a reasonable request to grant an additional period to act in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The period which is granted so shall be subject to a maximum 
period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
18.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the licensee fails to comply with 
the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above. 
   
19.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of the By-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court, he/she shall 
be liable to a penalty under sub-section 153(2) of the Urban Co uncil Ordinance, Chapter 255. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, and in the event of further breach of the 
law after a notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, breach of the 
law must be subject to an additional ﬁ ne referred to in sub-section 153(2) of the Urban Council 
Ordinance, Chapter 255 for each day in which they continue the breach of the law. 
   
20.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  “Urban Council” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at present or the person who perform the duties of that position,
       "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the Peliyagoda Urban Council area.
        "Authorized Oﬃ   cer" means any oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman in writing,
          "Reasonable time" means the time engaged in a license d activity or related work,
  "Trade" means taking of something or a commodity out and sell ing it for money, or preparation 
for sale, or production for sale. 
   
Entering into a
statement of
agreement
Entering a 
premises
and obtaining
samples
Cancellation of 
the license
Penalty
Deﬁ nition

<!-- page 31 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
31A
21.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
Sർඁൾൽඎඅൾ
Application for a Trade License for the Year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Nature of the business: -
06. Start year: -
07. Address of the place of business: -
08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference Number: -  
11. The manager or agent of the place of business,
 I. Name and Personal Address: -
 II. National Identity Card Number: -
 III. Phone Number  Mobile: -    Fixed: -
 
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request that a business license to be issued to me for the ye ar ............................ for the place where the 
industry, business mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules and regulations on this regard.
Date:- …………………………  
 Signature of the applicant. 
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-  .................................
   Secretary.
Inconsistency
between texts

<!-- page 32 -->

32A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date :-  …………….................
   Revenue Inspector.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
Date:-     …………….................
 Secretary.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
Date :-                                     .................................
 Public Health Inspector.
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-                                           ..............................
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health.

<!-- page 33 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
33A
BY-LAW
MAINTAINING BATHING PLACES 
1. This By-law is enacted to regulate and control public bathin g places maintained within the 
authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Council. 
    
2. This By-law is cited as the By-law relating to the bathing p laces within the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council. 
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these b y- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said Ordinance.
 
4. A bathing area, a well or a pool of water belonging to a riv er, stream or canal which exists or is 
maintained as a public bathing place for public bathing within the territory of the Urban Council 
(hereinafter referred to as authority area) shall be applicable for the purposes under this by-law. 
   
5. When it comes to a public bathing area belonging to a river,  stream or canal located within the 
authority area, with respect to each of those public bathing areas, 
   
 (1) The place shall be maintained under a notice board with th e words declaring it a public bathing 
place. 
   
 (2) Notices shall be displayed about the area that can be used  safely as a bathing place and the safety 
precautions to be taken in a way that makes it easy for the public to use the bathing area. 
   
 (3) Stairs shall be made with cement and it shall not be slipp ery in such a way to allow safe access to 
water for bathing. 
   
 (4) Whenever possible women and men shall have separate access  to the water. 
   
 (5) Maintaining the bathing area shall not endanger any tree i n the river, stream, canal or lake reserve 
where the bathing area is located. 
   
 (6) Normally the bathing area shall be used from 06.00 a.m. to  07.00 p.m. and the bathing area could 
be used at night only if adequate electric lighting is provided at the location. 
   
 (7) Separate places to change clothes shall be set up for men and women.
 
 (8) Usage of alcohol shall be prohibited in any form around th e bathing area and notices shall be 
prominently displayed in that regard.
6.  The Urban Council may provide and maintain additional servi ces and facilities for the users of 
the bathing place, and it shall be lawful to charge a fee as de cided and published by the Urban 
Council for such services and facilities.
Short name.
Maintaining a 
public bathing 
place.
Setting a fee.

<!-- page 34 -->

34A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
7.  When there is a public bathing well or pool located within the authority area, with respect to each 
of those public bathing well or pool,
 (1) The place should be maintained under a notice board with t he words declaring it a public bathing 
place.
 (2) Around the well or pool shall have a protective wall of th e height of at least 0.6096 metres 
above ground level and at least to a similar depth below ground  level the well or pool should be 
permanently build securely with cement or granite.
 (3) Whenever possible, the public bathing place shall be maint ained so that it can be used separately 
for men and women, and separate places for women and men to change clothes shall be maintained.
 (4) Drainage should be arranged in such a way that the water u sed for bathing is easily prevented 
from leaking into the bathing well or pool and drains easily out of it.
 (5) Buckets and ropes shall be there as needed to use the wate r for bathing, and the buckets shall be 
painted to prevent rust. 
8. It is lawful to appoint committees by the Chairman consistin g of representatives of the residents 
in the vicinity of every public bathing place to advise the Cha irman in such matters to assist in 
the action taken by the Urban Council to maintain the public ba thing places in accordance with 
the provisions of section 5 and 7 above.  
   
9. (1) The function of a committee appointed under section 8 ab ove shall be as follows.
  (A)  If there are instances where it is observed that the use rs of the public bathing places 
do not comply with the provisions of this by-law, they shall re port thereon to the 
Chairman.
  (B)  To inquire into the requirements of the relevant place f or the beneﬁ t of the public 
and to advise and report to the Chairman.
  (C)  To perform relevant functions with the participation of labor in cases where there is 
a need to clean the bathing pool and well for the beneﬁ t of public health.
  (D)  To take all possible steps to protect the water sources and the surrounding ﬂ ora and 
fauna, and to advise the Chairman in this regard.
 (2) Committees appointed for the purpose under sub-section (i)  shall gather from time to time 
and shall inform the Chairman of the decisions to be taken. 
10. It is the duty of the Urban Council to take all possible st eps to maintain the proper public baths 
located within the authority area. 
  
When it comes to
a public bathing 
well or pool.
Appointment of
committees.
The function of a 
committee.

<!-- page 35 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
35A
11. (1) It is lawful to prohibit the use of any public bathing place for a speciﬁ ed period of time by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of any epidemic 
situation under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or any of the regulations 
made under it, applicable to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka.
 (2) Such an order shall be prominently displayed in a public b athing place. 
   
12.  No person shall bath or use the public bathing place for a ny other purpose when the Chairman 
has prohibited using a public bathing place under the section 1 1 of this by-law during the 
period of such prohibition.
13. (1) In case of any epidemic of any infectious or transmissi ble disease in the area, the Chairman 
shall issue instructions on the procedure to be followed by a person taking a bath in or using 
a public bathing place in accordance with the instructions give n by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health.
 (2) All provisions under sub-section (1) above shall be promin ently displayed in the public 
bathing place and all persons using the public bathing place shall obey the rules.
14.  Anyone who suﬀ  ers from an epidemic or spends a quarantine period after an epidemic or on 
quarantine period on suspicion of such an illness should not use a public bath.
15.  In a public bathing place,
  (A)  Disposal of the waste generated shall be as speciﬁ  ed by the Chairman and no waste 
shall be released into the external environment.
  (B)  A garbage bin shall be speciﬁ  cally reserved and maintained in the place to dispose 
things such as face masks or gloves worn by any person and shall be disposed only to 
the garbage bin.
  (C)  The waste collected shall be disposed according to the w aste management program 
implemented by the Urban Council.
16.  Water shall not be taken for drinking purposes from a publ ic bathing place in any instance.
17.  No person shall urinate or defecate in the vicinity of a p ublic bathing place unless there are
  toilets and latrines provided by the Urban Council in an area  designated as a public bathing
  place. 
18.  Shall not wash vehicles, machineries or agrochemical spray ing machines in a place that is
  maintained as a public bathing place.
19.  No person shall bathe, wash or enter any animal in or near  any place designated as a public
  bathing place.
20.  No person shall roam, walk around a public bathing place w ithout any purpose.
Prohibition of use 
when an epidemic 
is declared.
Publication of 
regulations 
relating to an 
epidemic 
situation.
Disposal of waste
That bathing and 
entering animals 
is prohibited

<!-- page 36 -->

36A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
21.  The public bathing place shall be regularly inspected by a n oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman 
to ensure that it is in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law. 
   
22.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a public bathing place against the provisions  of this by-law or 
violate the provisions of this by-law and after being found gui lty by a court of competent 
jurisdiction shall be subject to a ﬁ  ne under sub-section 153(2) of the Urban Council 
Ordinance, Chapter 255.  
   
23.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law;
  “Urban Council” means Peliyagoda. Urban Council too;
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Chairman of the Peliyagoda..Urban 
Council for the time or the person who perform the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person holds the oﬃ  ce of that position for the Division 
of Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the ………………….. local authority at the time;
  "Authorized Oﬃ   cer" means an oﬃ  cer authorized by the then Chairman in writing. 
24.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-
law the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
BY-LAW
REGULARIZING MOBILE TRADE
1.  This By-Law is enacted to make provisions for ancillary mat ters, including the supervision 
of traders engaged in mobile trade within the authority area of  the Peliyagoda.Urban 
Council. 
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law on mobile trade of the P eliyagoda Urban Council.  
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
 
4.  A person who sells any commodity including goods or food wh ile visiting the Peliyagoda. 
Urban Council area (hereinafter referred to as authority area) shall be obtained a license from 
the Chairman under this by-law.  
   
5. (1) Every person applying for a license under section 4 abov e shall apply for it through an 
application form obtained from the Urban Council. 
 
 (2) The fee to be charged by the Urban Council for issuing an application for a license under this 
by-law shall be as determined by the Council.
 
Inconsistency 
between texts
Quality
Deﬁ nition
 Short Title
Obtaining a 
License
Applying for a 
License

<!-- page 37 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
37A
6.  The Chairman shall not issue a license in this regard unles s all the persons applying for a 
license under this by-law as a mobile trader have fulﬁ lled the following:  
   
 (1) The identities of the trader or persons engaged in the mob ile trade shall be veriﬁ ed in an 
acceptable manner. 
   
 (2) If a bicycle, tricycle, cart, or motor vehicle is used for  commercial purposes, evidence must 
be provided that it was designed or prepared in such a way that  it can be used for such 
purposes. 
   
 (3) If loudspeakers are used in the mobile trade, it should be  ascertained that a license has 
been obtained from the relevant competent authority in the even t that a relevant license is 
required. 
 (4) An outline of the areas intended for mobile trade within t he authority area shall be 
provided. 
   
 (5) If cooked food is sold in the mobile trade, all persons in volved in the handling the relevant 
food shall have a certiﬁ cate of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the area in accordance with 
the format set out in this Schedule of the By-Laws. 
   
7.  The fee to be charged for a license issued under this by-la w shall be a proportion to the 
period for which the license is requested and the fee shall be determined and declared by the 
Sabha by a resolution. 
   
8.  The maximum validity period of a license issued under this by-law shall expire on 31st 
December of the year in which the license is issued and the rel evant license may be issued 
for a period for which the license is applied for in the calendar year. 
   
9.  Every mobile trader shall keep the relevant license in his possession. 
   
10.  A license issued under this by-law shall be valid only for the period of its issuance unless it 
is revoked in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
   
11.  All persons licensed under this by-law shall conduct trade in accordance with the following 
conditions. 
   
 (1) There shall be no noise or air pollution to the public due  to the mobile trade or its 
publicity. 
   
 (2) (i) Any waste generated during the mobile trade shall not be disposed to the surrounding 
environment; all waste should be handed over in accordance with  the waste management 
program implemented by the Urban Council in the area. 
  (ii) If the licensee manages the waste generated by himself, a certiﬁ cate in that regard 
shall be submitted and consent obtained from the Public Health Inspector of the authority 
area.  
   
Conditions to 
issue a License
Fee for a License
Conditions 
Applicable to 
a License

<!-- page 38 -->

38A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (3) The trade shall be in accordance with the instructions and  criteria put in place by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event that 
there is a risk of an epidemic in the whole or part of the territory of Sri Lanka. 
   
 (4) The license issued under this by-law shall be kept in the possession of the trader at all 
times and shall be submitted for inspection at any time upon re quest by the Chairman or an 
authorized oﬃ  cer, a police oﬃ  cer. 
   
 (5) In the event of any outbreak of any contagious disease or contagious disease relating to 
the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention Ordina nce and any part of Sri 
Lanka within or within the authority area of Sri Lanka, the Med ical Oﬃ  cer of Health shall 
be notiﬁ ed in that regard. The licensee must act in accordance with th e instructions and the 
licensee must be satisﬁ ed that his employees are acting accordingly.
 
 (6) 1. If cooked food is sold under the mobile trade,
   (i) All utensils and tools used for selling food shall be ma de of a substance which 
does not emit any toxic substance, odor or taste. Such equipment and tools shall 
be made of non-abrasive and non-corrosive materials and shall b e made of 
materials that are resistant to continuous cleaning and disinfection.
   (ii) All equipment and tools shall be designed in such a man ner that antiseptics can 
be used for easy cleaning to prevent unhygienic.
   (iii) If frozen material is sold, it shall be ﬁ  tted with compatible storage and temperature 
measuring or temperature recording equipment.
   (iv) Separate enclosed waste bins shall be maintained for th e collection of waste 
accumulated during trade. However, when disposing of items such as face masks, 
one should keep sealed containers so that they do not mix with other waste.
   (v) All equipment and tools used shall be in good condition.
   (vi) Packaging should be designed and maintained to prevent food contamination and 
to prevent food from pests during the sale.
   (vii) Whatever equipment is used to serve food to the consum er they shall not be 
prepared in manner that cannot be reused.
   (viii)  Food kept for sale shall not be contaminated in any way.
   (ix) Catching food shall not be done using money and a separ ate person should be 
employed for money transactions.
   (x) Metal grip should be used to hold food.
 
 (7) The mobile trade shall not disturb the movement of passeng ers or vehicles in any 
way. 

<!-- page 39 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
39A
 (8) Trade shall be conducted only within a territory valid for  the license and in no way exceed 
the permitted period speciﬁ ed in the license. 
   
 (9) A person suﬀ  ering from or infecting or infecting any person with any form of contagious 
disease shall not engage in trade or trade-related assistance and shall maintain the sanitized 
material to be utilized when necessary. 
   
 (10) The meat of any animal subject to the Slaughter Ordinance  shall not be sold under the 
mobile Trade. 
   
 (11) No mobile trader should stay in one place for long period s of time. 
   
12.  Even if there is a license issued under this by-law, the C hairman shall, on the advice of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, determine in or within the authority area or any part of it, if there 
is a risk of contagious or contagious disease spreading.
  (i) The activity may be permanently prohibited under a licens e issued.
  (ii) Areas of trade may be restricted under the license issue d.
  (iii) Operation under the license may be suspended. 
   
13.  It is legal for the Chairman or an authorized oﬃ   cer to obtain a sample of a food, commodity 
or item sold by a mobile trader at its price, and no licensee shall refuse or interfere with it.  
   
14.  If a person engages in mobile trade violates the provision s of this By-Laws and disregards 
the instructions given to comply with the By-Laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to 
revoke a license issued by Chairman under Article 3 of this By-Laws. 
   
15.  It is an oﬀ  ense to engage in the mobile trade without obtaining a license  under this by-law 
and to engage in the trade without a valid license, and after being convicted by a Magistrate's 
Court, he shall be subjected to a penalty under sub-section 153 (2) of the Urban Council 
Ordinance, Chapter 255. 
   
16.  Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By- law, this By-law;  
  "Urban Council" means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the post of Chairman of  the Urban Council at 
present or the person who performs the function of that post.   
 
  A "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" is a person who holds that post in a particular Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health division within the authority area of the Urban Council at that time.
  A "Public Health Inspector" is a person who holds the post of  a Public Health Inspector in a 
division of the Urban Council area at that time.
Obtaining Samples
Penalty for 
violation.
Defnitions.

<!-- page 40 -->

40A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  "Contamination" refers to the entry or formation of a palatab le substance into a food or food 
background
  “Food hygiene” includes all the conditions, steps and practic e necessary to ensure the safety 
and suitability of food at all stages of the food chain;
  "Mobile trade" means the trade of goods, food, or any other c ommodity by oneself or with 
the help of an animal, or by car, cart, bicycle, or tricycle. 
  "Motor vehicle" also means the deﬁ  nition given in the Motor Vehicles Ordinance.
 
17.  If there is a discrepancy between the Sinhala, Tamil and E nglish texts in this by-law then the 
Sinhala text will prevail. 
   
First Schedule
Application for Trade License for the year..........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Telephone Number: -
05. Nature of Trade: -
06. Grama Niladhari Division: -
I do hereby certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request that a trade license be issued to me for the year ............................ for the industry and place of 
trade mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules on this.
Date:-         ………………………….
 Signature of the applicant. 
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to give me your observations and recommend ations as soon as possible for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back page 
Date:-   .................................
 Secretary.
Inconsistency 
between Texts.

<!-- page 41 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
41A
Secretary,
I recommend / not recommend granting the license.
Date :- …………………………….
         Revenue Inspector
Chairman,
…………………….. Urban Council
I recommend / not recommend granting the license.
Date :- …………………………….
         Secretary
I recommend / not recommend granting the license.
Date :-    
        
 …………………………….
         Chairman
  ……………………….Urban Council

<!-- page 42 -->

42A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Schedule
Medical certiﬁ cate issued to Mobile traders in the …………………………..Urban Council area
I.......................................... Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health ....................................... area do hereby certify that  
Mr. / Mrs.............................................. bearer of National Identity Card No. ................................. ......... 
was physically examined after a proper laboratory test revealed that he / she has not exposed an infectious 
disease or any illness that could pose a future threat to food safety. I also certify that he / she has suﬀ ered 
from skin infections, ulcers or diarrhea.
Date :- …………………………….
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
 (Oﬃ   cial seal)
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING FAIRS AND MARKETS
 
1.  This By-Law is enacted to regulate and monitor the public o r private markets maintained 
within the authority area of  Peliyagoda Urban Council.
2.  This By Law is cited as the By Laws for markets of Peliyago da Urban Council.
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
4.  This by-law refers to a public or private market that is ma intained for purchase or sale of 
goods or materials for the public on behalf of Peliyagoda Urban  Council or any other party 
located within the authority area of the Peliyagoda. Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as 
authority area) for the purpose.     
Short Title
Photo

<!-- page 43 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
43A
5.  All public markets and private markets located within the a uthority area shall be maintained 
under the management of a market caretaker (hereinafter referred to as the premises at some 
places).
6.  All public markets and private markets established and main tained within the authority area 
shall be constructed to meet the following requirements.
 (1) Permanent buildings pertaining to the premises shall be co nstructions constructed under the 
Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or in accordanc e with the provisions of 
the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance. 
 (2) Construction on the premises shall be well made of permane nt structure and maintained in 
good condition.
 (3) There shall be platforms for the sale of goods and materia ls for each permanent construction 
on the premises, and the front of the platforms shall be adequately spaced so that buyers can 
move around. 
 (4) Under the permanent construction of the premises, each sta ll shall be at least two square 
meters wide.
 (5) All buildings related to the premises shall be constructed  with access facilities for persons 
with disabilities and special needs.
 (6) All construction on the premises shall be securely constru cted, and all construction materials 
on the premises shall be free from contaminants and materials t hat are not suitable for food 
or stock, as well as those that do not emit toxic gases.
 (7) The internal layout of the buildings on the premises shall  be arranged in such a way that they 
can be separated, divided and positioned to prevent cross-pollution in the premises.
 (8) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed s o that the hygienic operations of the 
process from bringing the goods to the premises to the sale can be carried out properly.
 (9) There should proper access to the premises for the vehicle s carrying goods to the premises 
and the food items in the premises shall not be polluted in any way due to the motor vehicles 
entering the premises.
 (10) There should be adequate parking facilities for vehicles carrying goods and customers inside 
the premises.
 (11) The ﬂ  oor should be prepared in a manner that water does not remain in the premises and 
arranged in a manner that all the drains and rainwater in the premises ﬂ ow easily.
 (12) Sewage pits for the discharge of wastewater within the pr emises shall be constructed in 
accordance with the approved design and shall be located at a d istance of at least 15.25 m 
from a water source and shall not be exposed to the outside.
That the market 
should be under 
the management 
of a caretaker
Requirements 
for a public and 
private market

<!-- page 44 -->

44A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (13) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the prem ises and maintained separately for 
men and women. The provisions of the By-Laws relating to Public latrine in respect of public 
latrine maintained within the premises shall apply with the required minor changes. 
 (14) Adequate space should be provided within the premises to allow the sale and purchase 
of goods while maintaining adequate social distance, and the in ternal structure should 
be maintained to facilitate the movement of goods within the pr emises without causing 
inconvenience to customers.
 (15) Every platform set up for the sale of goods should have a  non-slip, waterproof, appropriate 
surface and be easy to clean with antiseptic. 
 (16) The premises should be zoned according to what is for sal e, and no goods other than speciﬁ ed 
in the particular zone shall not be sold.
 (17) No item or items for sale should be kept in direct contac t with the ground and should always 
be placed on a rack with a suﬃ  cient height above the ﬂ oor for sale.
 (18) It should be the duty of the caretaker of the market to m ake room for the sale so that there is 
enough space for the customers to move around in the premises to buy the goods.
 (19) Equipments used for weighing and measuring in the premise s should be with proper 
standard  
 (20) Animals such as dogs and cats should not be allowed to ga ther or stay in the premises.
7.  Separate stalls shall be set up in the area reserved for the sale of ﬁ sh in the premises and the 
following should be completed in this regard. 
 (1) Platforms for the sale of ﬁ  sh should be constructed with solid material and drains should also 
be constructed in a manner that the water can ﬂ ow easily.
 (2) All equipment in the ﬁ  sh storage, display, and sale areas should be free from germ a nd 
should not emit contaminants or toxic gases into the ﬁ sh.
 (3) Light bulbs and other ﬁ  xtures hanging above the ﬁ sh for sale should be in a safe condition 
and covered  
 (4) The ﬁ  sh market shall be kept clean and disinfected and before start ing any sale the place 
shall be cleaned with anti-septic. 
 (5) The parts that contact with the ﬁ  sh kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and should 
not be contaminated in any way.
 (6) Water from the cleaning and use of ﬁ  sh stalls should be diverted to a septic tank or suction pit 
under a separate drainage system and should not be in contact with other drains in the area.
Sale of ﬁ sh in the 
premises

<!-- page 45 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
45A
 (7) The eﬄ   uent collected during the sale of ﬁ  sh should be temporarily collected in sealed 
containers so that it does not mix with other eﬄ   uents in the premises and disposed of in 
accordance with the waste management system implemented by the Urban Council or as per 
the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
 (8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of  ﬁ sh other than kept for sale.
 (9) If the ﬁ  sh is stored on site, adequate refrigerators should be availab le and the relevant 
refrigerators should be maintained under continuous electricity supply.
 (10) Fish taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natu ral temperature and not re-refrigerated 
and sold. 
 (11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in print ing paper or in direct contact with 
ﬁ sh.
 (12) Fish shall not be stored in sales stall, the equipment no n-related ﬁ sh sale shall not be kept in 
the stall. 
 (13) All ﬁ  sh sellers shall wear clean clothes. 
 (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written la w for the operation of a premises for 
the sale of ﬁ sh, all such licenses must have been obtained by the ﬁ sh sellers in the premises, 
none of those provisions shall not undermine these provisions.
8.  If a zone is created for the sale of meat in the premises, speciﬁ c stalls shall be set up in this 
regard and the following requirement shall be completed  
 (1) Relevant stalls shall be constructed in such a manner as t o be considered as a speciﬁ c premises 
for the purpose, and all relevant stalls shall be maintained under a license in accordance with 
the written rules relating to the maintenance of the premises for the sale of meat
 (2) All equipment in the meat storage, display, and sale areas  should be free from germs and 
should not emit pollutants or toxic gases into the meat 
 (3) Light bulbs and other ﬁ  xtures hanging above the meat for sale should be in a safe condition 
and covered  
 (4) The meat shall be kept clean and disinfected and before st arting any sale the place shall be 
cleaned with anti-septic.
 (5) The parts that contact with the meat kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and should 
not be contaminated in any way.
 (6) Water from the cleaning and use of meat stalls should be d iverted to a septic tank or suction 
pit under a separate drainage system and should not be in conta ct with other drains in the 
area.
Sale of meat in 
the premises

<!-- page 46 -->

46A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (7) The eﬄ   uent collected during the sale of meat should be temporarily collected in sealed 
containers so that it does not mix with other eﬄ   uents in the premises and disposed of in 
accordance with the waste management system implemented by the Urban Council or as per 
the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
 (8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of  meat other than kept for 
sale.  
 
 (9) If the meat is stored on site, adequate refrigerators shou ld be available and the relevant 
refrigerators should be maintained under continuous electricity supply.
 (10) The meat taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natural temperature and not re-
refrigerated and sold.  
 (11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in print ing paper or in direct contact with 
the meat. 
 (12) The meat shall not be stored in the sales stall, the equipment non-related meat sale shall not 
be kept in the stall. 
 (13) All meat sellers shall wear clean clothes.
 (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written la w for the operation of premises for the 
sale of meat. All such licenses must have been obtained by the meat sellers in the premises; 
none of those provisions shall not undermine these provisions.
9.  Platforms for selling fruits and vegetables in the premises  should be at least 45 cm above 
ground level and in the absence of such platforms, they should be placed on a board of 
suﬃ  cient height and sold 
10.  Those who engaged in sales in the premises shall use the s tandardized weighing and 
measuring equipment  
11.  Vegetables and fruits kept for sale should never be kept i n mix with rotten vegetables 
and fruits and should always be disposed only in the containers  for the disposal of rotten 
vegetables and fruits. 
12.  Every trader should make sure that rotten vegetables or fr uits that have not been ready at any 
time for the consumption  
13.  Only drinking water shall be used for washing the vegetabl es and fruits in the premises and 
the washing shall be done only in a designated place. 
14.  Garbage accumulated due to sales should be disposed only i n the containers kept for disposal 
at the premises or at the designated place at the end of the sales.
General 
Conditions

<!-- page 47 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
47A
15.  No cooking or making ﬁ  re or any other preparation of food shall be done by anyone at  the 
premises.
16.  When selling cooked food at the  premises;
 (1) Food shall not be sold in a place where there is a risk of  food contamination.
 (2) Always the food items shall be sold from the sealed or air tight containers.
 (3) Food items kept in any open space shall not be sold.
 (4) Cooked food shall not be taken here and there around the p remises and sold.
 (5) Everyone who sells food item shall use gloves and touch th e food only with the help of a 
handle to hold food.
17.  No person shall drink alcohol or make arrangements to drin k alcohol or smoke in any way at 
the premises 
18.  No person in the premises should utter ﬁ  lthy words or behave in an obscene manner 
19.  Anyone who suﬀ  ers from any infectious disease, or who is suspected of having  contracted 
disease, or who has been infected with a wound, skin infection, ulcer, or diarrhea, or who has 
been cared for, should not trade on the premises.
20.  The loudspeakers shall not be used in the premises to adve rtise or present musical programs 
21.  No person in the premises shall beg or hold performances
22.  Whatever the above provisions of this by-law contain, ther e are reasonable grounds to 
suspect that in any area or authority area in Sri Lanka, when t here is a provision for the 
spread of an epidemic under the Quarantine and Prevention of di seases Ordinance and the 
regulations made under it, In such cases, it should be lawful f or the Chairman to prescribe 
that all or some of the following procedures shall be followed by the users of the premises as 
instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
 (1) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders  and consumers at various places 
in the premises
 (2) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders  and consumers at various places 
in the premises 
 (3) That public latrines in the premises should be temporarily  closed. 
 (4) That there should be several entrances and exits to the pr emises.
Maintaining the 
public market 
in an epidemic 
situation

<!-- page 48 -->

48A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (5) That the relevant minimum distance between traders and con sumers should be maintained 
and the minimum distance to be maintain between each other.
 (6) That the premises should be well ventilated 
 (7) That the number of people entered to the premises at a tim e by the entrances should be 
limited 
 (8) That respiratory etiquette should be maintained on the pre mises and that anyone suspected 
of having a fever or respiratory illness or such condition should be prohibited from entering 
the premises  
 (9) Traders and users of the premises are required to wear fac e masks and traders are required to 
wear face masks and gloves  
 (10) That conduct and other necessary instruction should be di splayed at the premises and 
maintained on a regular basis  
 (11) That when dealing with money in the premises, a speciﬁ  c person shall be deployed at each 
stall to perform that task and he or she shall regularly sterilize and clean their hands  
 (12) That food should not be consumed by anyone in any way in the premises  
 (13) That the premises should be divided into sections and ope rated for a limited trade.
 (14) That the premises were not maintained for commercial purp oses for a period of time 
23.  All persons who use the premises shall act in accordance w ith the provisions made by the 
Chairman under the above clause 
24.  Every public market owned by the Urban Council and private  market should have a boundary 
schedule to the land area 
25.  When it is a public market belonging to the Urban Council 
 (1) The Chairman shall ensure that all steps taken to maintain  the provisions of this By-Laws are 
properly implemented 
 (2) As per the decision of the Urban Council, the public marke t of the Sabha can be entrusted to 
the second parties identiﬁ ed under the proper tender procedure
 (3) When the public market is maintained by the parties contra cted on behalf of the Urban 
Council, it shall be supervised by an oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to specify whether 
it shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law
26. (1) When the public market is maintained by the Urban Counc il, the fees to be charged for trade 
in the premises should be as determined by the Sabha 
The terms must be 
complied
Determination of 
fees

<!-- page 49 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
49A
 (2) All matters related to the fees prescribed under sub-claus e (1) above and the reservation of 
space for public market vendors shall be decided by the sabha t aking into consideration the 
recommendations of a committee appointed by the Urban Council.
27.  All private operating maintained within the authority area  shall not be maintained except 
under a license to be obtained from the Chairman.
28.  All private markets operating within the authority shall n ot be issue a license unless they 
comply with the provisions of this By-Law 
29.  All persons applying for a license under Article 27 shall apply to the Chairman in accordance 
with an application under the Schedule to this By-Law 
30.  The fees to be charged in respect of requests received fro m the Urban Council shall be 
legally determined by the sabha through a prior proposal 
31.  If a license issued under section 27 is not previously rev oked in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law, it shall be valid until 31st Decembe r of the year in which the 
license issued 
32. (1) (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under t his by-law shall be determined and 
declared by the Sabha, subject to the provisions of the Basic Law 
 (2) It should be lawful for the Sabha to determine and charge an inspection fee for a site 
inspection in connection with the issuance of a license 
33.  It shall be lawful for an oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the premises and obtain 
the necessary items to inspect the premises in accordance with the provisions of this By-
Law   
34. (1) In the event of a breach or contradiction of the provis ions of this by-law, the Chairman shall 
give notice to the licensee giving a speciﬁ ed period not exceeding thirty days for compliance 
with the By-law 
 (2) Upon submission of a notice under this section to the lice nsee, the Chairman may grant 
additional time upon request, on reasonable grounds, to grant further time to act in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The period so granted shall be subjected to a maximum 
period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
35.  The Chairman shall revoke the relevant license in the event that the licensee fails to comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period granted under section 34 above 
36.  It is an oﬀ  ense to act in violation of any provision of this by-law or to operate a private market 
without obtaining a license under this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate court 
under sub-section 153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 shall be subjected to 
a penalty.
License for 
Private Market
Applying for 
License
Violation of the 
terms of the 
license
Authority for 
inspection
Penalty
License fee

<!-- page 50 -->

50A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
37. Unless the context required an interpretation of the terms of this By-law;
 "Sabha" means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
 "Chairman" refers to the person who holds the post of Chairman  of the Peliyagoda Urban Council 
at present or the person who performs the function of that position.
 “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” Any oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Urban Council,
 "Pollution" means food or food pollutants entry or occurrence.
 "Hygiene" refers to all the conditions and practices required to ensure the safety and suitability of 
food at all stages of a food chain.
38. If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, English  and Tamil texts in this By-law, Sinhala 
text will prevail
Schedule 
Application for Trade License for the Year. ..........................
01. Name of the Applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Telephone Number: -
05. Address of the place where the fair is held: -
06. Start year: -
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
I do herby certify that the above information is true and correct.
I kindly request you that please issue me trade license for the  year ............................ for the industry and 
place of trade mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules in this regard.
Date:-………………………. ………………………….
 Signature of the applicant 
Inconsistencies 
between texts

<!-- page 51 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
51A
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
applicant mentioned on the back page..
Date:-...............................                                                                            .................................,
 Secretary.
Secretary,
I recommend ./ Not recommend granting the license
Date :- …………………… …………………………….,
 Revenue Inspector.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request your observations and recommendations for the is suance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back page. 
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........,
 Secretary.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with By-laws and other rules and regulations. I do hereby recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........,
 Public Health Inspector.
Secretary,
I recommend / I do not recommend the issuance a license for the relevant place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........,
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health.

<!-- page 52 -->

52A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF MARKET SUPERVISORS AND
OTHER EMPLOYEES
1.  This By-Law is imposed to specify the relevant Terms and Co nditions for the proper 
performance of the duties of the Supervisors and Other Employees appointed for the market 
owned by Peliyagoda. Urban Council.
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-law to specify the work of t he market Supervisors and Other 
Employees of  Peliyagoda Urban Council.
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
4.  For every market belong to the Peliyagoda Urban Council, th ere should be a post in the name 
of the market supervisor and a suitable person should be appoin ted to the post. Appropriate 
appointments should be made by the authority.
5.  The provisions of Section 32 of the Provincial Council Act,  No. 42 of 1987 as well as the 
provisions of section 36 of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapte r 255 as appropriate, shall 
be applicable with regard to appointments to the post of Market Supervisor. 
6.  In order to carry out the duties of the Market Supervisor i n a proper and appropriate manner, 
the necessary supporting posts shall be created by the Sabha an d established in accordance 
with the relevant procedures.
7.  The Market Supervisor shall carry out the following functio ns either by himself or his 
associates within the Public Market Premises (hereinafter referred to as the Premises) .
 (1) Registration and maintenance of all traders in the premise s.
 (2) Placement of Traders by taking into account the zoning tha t operates within the premises.
 (3) If there is a permanent operation of the shops, it is nece ssary to keep a close eye on the 
conduct of the trade under the respective premises in accordanc e with the terms of the 
relevant agreement.
 (4) To monitor the cleanliness of the latrines in the premises  and to ensure that the latrines are 
maintained in accordance with the by-laws regarding public latrines and to direct the staﬀ  in 
this regard.
 (5) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the pr emises is disposed in accordance 
with the waste management program implemented by the Urban Council
Short Title.
Appointment.
Supporting posts 
creation.
Functions of 
Market 
Supervisor.

<!-- page 53 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
53A
 (6) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the pr emises is disposed in accordance 
with the waste management program implemented by the Urban Council.
 (7) Sewage in the premises should be directed to the respectiv e pits or suction ditches so that 
water does not escape out of the drains.
 (8) Taking all measures to maintain the provisions of the By-l aws of the Urban Council regarding 
the public market and private market regarding the trade carried out in the premises.
 (9) Carrying out the disinfection process in the public market  premises in a timely 
manner. 
 (10) Ensuring that no alcohol, drug use or any other illegal a ctivities take place in the 
premises. 
 (11) Taking all necessary steps to maintain the premises as a public health friendly premises.
 (12) Prevent parking of vehicles other than in the parking lot  within the premises and direct the 
proper use of the entrances and exits.
 (13) Advice and guide the users on matters to be followed for the regular cleanliness of the 
premises and supervise accordingly.
 (14) Prevent begging, temporary accommodation and unauthorized  use of the premises.
 (15) Take appropriate measures to prevent the spread of animal s such as dogs and cats on the 
premises.
 (16) Taking action to collect the fees and rent due for the Urban Council from the traders engage 
in trade in the premises. 
8.  The Supervisor of the public market may delegate the task t o the assistants to carry out the 
work assigned to him under Article 7 of this by-law and he shal l ensure that the work so 
assigned is carried out in a proper and appropriate manner.
9.  Whenever there is an outbreak of an epidemic in any part or  territory of Sri Lanka or when 
there is a suspicion of an outbreak in the authority area, It is the duty of the Market Supervisor 
to ensure that all steps are taken to implement the following o r any other instruction 
given by the Chairman on the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health regarding the 
premises. 
 (1) Make sure that the water supply for hand washing placed in  various places on the premises 
is safe and in constant use for the users of the premises.
 (2) Ensure that the conditions connected with the use of publi c latrines in the premises are 
properly observed and the relevant health instructions are followed.
Follow the 
instruction during 
the outbreak of 
an epidemic.

<!-- page 54 -->

54A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (3) The disinfection process on the premises should be carried  out in accordance with the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector. 
 (4) All activities in the premises are carried out in accordan ce with the instructions given to the 
users of the premises to maintain the social distance. 
 (5) Action shall be taken in accordance with the instructions to restrict the entry of vehicles into 
the premises. 
 (6) That health advice to be followed in the premises shall be  displayed in the premises through 
advertisements and other advertising methods.
 (7) The disposal of the waste of used Masks, gloves, etc. in t he premises are to be considered as 
clinical waste and they are disposed without mixing with other waste. 
 (8) In the event of the Chairman suspending business activitie s in the premises for the sake of 
public health, no trade or public gathering shall not be taken place in the premises. 
 (9) Each stall in the premises has a speciﬁ  c person appointed in connection with the cash 
transactions. 
 (10) Any instruction given by the Chairman on the instructions  of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
or the Public Health Inspector for the beneﬁ  t of the public health shall be duly executed 
within the premises. 
10.  It is the responsibility of the Market Supervisor to carry  out the duties assigned to him and 
make other employees to carry out their duties assigned to them, properly by this by-law.
11.  The market supervisor shall maintain a records of the day- to-day activities of the employees 
in the premises; a daily notebook should also be maintained in the premises for visitors' notes 
for follow-up. 
12.  It is the responsibility and duty of the Market Supervisor  to ensure that all activities are 
carried out in accordance with the written directives related t o the public market and its 
activities by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, and that the instructions given 
after such supervision are properly implemented.
13.  The Supervisor of the market shall always act under the ge neral administration of the 
Chairman and Secretary of the Sabha.
14.  1. Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By- law, this 
By-law,
       “Sabha” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
   "Chairman" means Peliyagoda the current Chairman of the Urba n Council or those who 
hold the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman, 
Keeping Records.
Supervision.
Act under the 
general 
administration of 
the Chairman and 
Secretary of the 
Sabha.
Deﬁ nition.

<!-- page 55 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
55A
   "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medi cal Oﬃ  cer 
of Health Division relevant to the Urban Council area,“Public Health Inspector” means 
a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector attached  to the oﬃ  ce of the 
Urban Council or Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health working in the authority area of the Urban 
Council. 
15.  If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, Englis h and Tamil texts in this By-law, 
Sinhala text will prevail.
BY-LAW
REGULARIZING SANITARY STANDARDS FOR 
PRIV ATE MARKETS AND FAIRS
1.  This By-law is enacted to set standards to be followed rega rding the sanitary requirements for 
private markets or fairs within the authority area of the  Peliyagoda Urban Council. 
   
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law on the setting of sanita ry standards for fairs of the 
Peliyagoda Urban Council. 
   
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these By- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(11) of the said 
Ordinance. 
   
4.  The extent of the land (hereinafter referred to as the prem ises) on which each market, 
including a public market and a private market (hereinafter ref erred to as market), which 
is located within the jurisdiction of the Peliyagoda Urban Coun cil (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall be speciﬁ ed, and it shall be a premises maintained and prepared 
under a name board for the same purpose. 
   
5.  All markets located within the authority area shall be main tained in accordance with the 
following standards to maintain proper sanitary conditions. 
  
 (1) The premises shall be zoned mainly for the exchange of goo ds brought for sale in vehicles 
as meat and ﬁ sh, vegetables and fruits and other goods and for the washing of fruits and 
vegetables. 
   
 (2) Latrines in the premises shall be adequate for both men an d women outside the zones referred 
to in Sub-Section (1) above and shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit by a speciﬁ c 
drain so that the water used therein shall not ﬂ ow into any zone of the premises. 
   
 (3) Zones within the premises shall be numbered and displayed in a map at the entrance to the 
premises in order for the easy attention of the visitors to the premises. 
   
 (4) Permanent constructions within the premises shall be const ructions built in accordance with 
the provisions of the written law to that eﬀ ect. 
Inconsistencies 
between texts.
Short title.
That a market 
shall comply 
with sanitary 
standards.

<!-- page 56 -->

56A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (5) Every construction on the premises shall be well construct ed and anything or any material 
used for that purpose shall not release anything which contaminates food. 
   
 (6) Necessary separations shall be made to prevent cross-conta mination in the premises. 
   
 (7) Arrangements shall be made to prevent the spread of animal s such as dogs and cats in the 
premises, and all construction surfaces shall be prepared as inanimate surfaces. 
   
 (8) A parking zone shall be established to prevent contaminati on of things brought in, things 
kept in the premises for sale from any substance, liquid or gas  releases or leaks from any 
vehicle entering the premises. 
   
 (9) The people deployed to unload, move the goods or the peopl e work for such purposes shall 
be pre-identiﬁ ed for the purpose and the information for their identities sh all be maintained 
by the market keeper documenting and updating the information. 
   
 (10) The market keeper shall document the identities of those who come to the premises for trade 
and those who come for their support and maintain the information updated. 
   
 (11) The ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be prepared so that water does not s tagnate and the internal 
drains shall be arranged so that water can ﬂ ow easily. 
   
 (12) Septic tank or soakage pit shall be adequately constructe d in the premises to allow waste 
water to ﬂ ow, and any soakage pit or soakage pit in the premises shall be located at a distance 
of at least 15.25 m, if there is a water source without an external opening. 
   
 (13) All stands set up to keep goods for trade within the prem ises shall have a washable surface 
and each surface shall be disinfected and cleaned prior to use. 
   
 (14) The interior layout of the premises shall be arranged wit h a reasonable distance to walk 
easily.  
   
 (15) Goods and materials sold on the premises shall be kept ou t of direct contact with the ground 
and shall be placed on a stand or platform at a certain height above the ground. 
   
 (16) Closed garbage bins shall be set up in each zone suﬃ   cient for the temporary disposal of 
waste collected in the premises, and the waste shall be dispose d only to the appropriate 
garbage bin where it should be disposed of according to its nature. 
   
 (17) Traders engaged in trading in the premises or customers shall not spit on the premises. 
   
 (18) No cooking or lighting shall be done on the premises and if cooked food is taken out and 
sold, all such food shall be stored in airtight containers and all food shall be sold with gloves 
and kitchen tongs. 
   
 (19) When disposing the gloves, masks used on the premises; Sp eciﬁ c closed garbage bins 
shall be adequately maintained for their disposal; relevant dis posals shall be done 
accordingly. 

<!-- page 57 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
57A
 (20) Within the area where the ﬁ  sh is sold on the premises;
 (A)  Stands for the sale of ﬁ  sh shall be made of permanent materials and shall be cleaned 
and used before use with soap or disinfectant.
 (B)  The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soak age pit through properly 
constructed closed drains.
 (C)  If ﬁ  sh is stored, it should be refrigerated and stored at a temper ature of two degrees 
Celsius or less.
 (D)  Light bulbs and ﬁ  ttings hanging above the ﬁ sh for sale shall be secured and covered.
 (E)  No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above t he place where the ﬁ sh is kept 
for sale and in contact with the ﬁ sh and no contamination of the ﬁ sh shall occur in 
any way.
 (F)  Sewage collected during the sale of ﬁ  sh shall be temporarily collected in closed 
garbage bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises  and disposed in 
accordance with a waste management program implemented by the U rban Council 
or in accordance with the instructions of the Public Health Inspector. 
 (G)  Refrigerated ﬁ  sh kept for sale shall not be re-refrigerated under ambient temperature.
 (H)  What is used for packaging in the sale of ﬁ  sh shall not be a printed paper or a 
packaging material that comes in direct contact with the ﬁ sh.
 (I)  All ﬁ  shmongers shall not be infected with any infectious disease or skin disease.
 (J)  All ﬁ  shmongers shall wear appropriate clean clothes while selling ﬁ sh.
 (K)  Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall be disinfected and 
cleaned. 
   
 (21) Within the area where the meat is sold on the premises;
 (A)  Stands for the sale of meat shall be made of permanent ma terials and shall be cleaned 
and used before use with soap or disinfectant.
 (B)  The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soak age pit through properly 
prepared closed drains.
 (C)  If meat is stored, it should be refrigerated and meat sho uld be stored at a temperature 
of two degrees Celsius or less.
 (D)  Light bulbs and ﬁ  ttings hanging above the meat for sale shall be secured and covered.

<!-- page 58 -->

58A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (E)  No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above t he place where the meat is 
kept for sale and in contact with the meat and the contamination of the meat shall not 
occur in any way.
 (F)  Sewage collected during the sale of meat shall be tempora rily collected in closed 
garbage bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises  and disposed in 
accordance with the waste management program implemented by the Urban Council 
or as per the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
 (G)  Refrigerated meat kept for sale shall not be re-refrigera ted under ambient temperature.
 (H)  What is used for packaging in the sale of meat shall not be printed paper or packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the meat.
 (I)  All meat sellers shall not be infected with any infectiou s disease or skin disease.
 (J)  All engaged in the sale of meat shall wear appropriate cl ean clothes while selling 
meat.
 (K)  Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall be disinfected and 
cleaned. 
   
 (22) Within the area where vegetables and fruits are sold on t he premises;
 (A)  Sales locations shall be well ventilated and well lighted  artiﬁ cially or naturally.
 (B)  No washing of fruits and vegetables shall be done on the same place; vegetables and 
fruits washed and cleaned in a separate place on the premises f or this purpose shall 
be kept for sale.
 (C)  No rotten vegetables or fruits shall be mixed with good q uality vegetables and fruits.
 (D)  A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease, infected or a person suﬀ ering from a 
skin disease shall not engage in selling activities.
 (E)  Rotten fruits and vegetables shall be disposed only in sp eciﬁ cally designated 
containers.
 (F)  No person engaged in sale shall eat food, smoke, spit, ch ew betel and other items, 
cough, sneeze or touch the nose in such a manner as to contamin ate vegetables or 
fruits and the hygiene of vegetables and fruits shall be maintained.
 (G)  The water used to prevent drying of vegetables and fruits  shall be drinking water and 
the use of any prohibited chemical substance in fruits and vege tables shall not be 
allowed. 
   
 (23) When the Chairman has made an order in this regard on the  instructions of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health that any epidemic situation has arisen in an au thority area or when any of 

<!-- page 59 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
59A
the provisions applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or any 
of the regulations made therein shall come into force, the following actions shall be properly 
implemented;
 (A)  That facilities shall be provided for cleaning hands at s peciﬁ c places in the premises 
and action will be taken accordingly.
 (B)  That the prevailing conditions and regulations regarding the use of public toilets in 
the premises shall be properly implemented.
 (C)  That the disinfection process to be carried out in the pr emises on the instructions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector shall be carried  out in 
accordance with the recommended schedule.
 (D)  That all operations on the premises shall be carried out in accordance with the 
instructions given to the users of the premises to protect social distancing.
 (E)  That action will be taken accordingly when the entry of v ehicles into the premises is 
restricted.
 (F)  That notices have been circulated in the premises regardi ng the health practices to be 
followed from time to time and that action will be taken accordingly.
 (O)  That the masks and gloves used in the premises are dispos ed without mixing with 
other garbage. 
   
6.  In order to maintain a market in accordance with the standa rds set forth in Section 5 of this 
by-law, all actions shall be taken by a keeper of the common market in the case of a common 
market and by the license holder in the case of a private market. 
   
7.  The Chairman or a Public Health Inspector or an authorized oﬃ  cer shall inspect whether the 
premises are maintained in accordance with the standards set forth in this By-law. 
   
8.  When any market is maintained in violation of or not compli es with the standards set out in 
Section 5 above; a written notice issued by the Chairman may sp ecify a time period to be 
compliance with the standards. 
   
9.  Failure to comply with a notice issued under Section 8 abov e shall be an oﬀ ense and shall be 
punishable under Sub-Section 153 (2) of the Urban Council Ordin ance ,Chapter 255, after 
being convicted by a Magistrate Court. 
   
10.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  "Council" means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  "Chairman" means to the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda 
Urban Council at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position.
Inspecting power.
Provide a speciﬁ c 
time period by a 
notice.
Penalty.

<!-- page 60 -->

60A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means any oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Urban 
Council,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food or food 
chain; 
  "Hygiene" means all the conditions and practices required to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all stages of a food chain. 
   
11.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this 
By-law the Sinhala text shall prevail.
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING PRIV ATE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
1.  This By-law is enacted to regulate, supervise and inspect m atters relating to public health in 
places where private educational institutions are maintained within the authority area of the 
Peliyagoda Urban Council. 
   
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-Law on Private Educational I nstitutions of the Peliyagoda 
Urban Council. 
   
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these By- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance. 
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Peliyagoda Urban C ouncil (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall maintain any building as a private  educational institution except 
under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this By-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ  lling the 
requirements and submitting an application to the Chairman by r egistered post, handing 
over in hand or by e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  It is lawful for the Council to decide and charge a ﬁ xed inspection fee for site inspections to 
be carried out prior to the issuance of a license in relation to the application made under this 
By-law. 
   
8.  Anyone applying for a license under this by-law shall have fulﬁ lled the following 
conditions applicable to a private educational institution here in (hereinafter referred to as 
premises). 
   
Deﬁ nition.
Inconsistency 
between texts.
Short title.
Applying for a 
License.
Inspection fees.
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 61 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
61A
 (1) All permanent constructions pertaining to the premises sha ll be constructions in accordance 
with a plan approved under the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or under 
the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) All constructions on the premises shall be compliant with the objectives for an educational 
purpose. 
   
 (3) All relevant constructions shall be with a proper ﬁ  nishing and arranged in a manner that is 
more favorable and does not adversely aﬀ  ect the educational activities carried out on the 
premises. 
   
 (4) The internal structure of the premises, the layout shall b e arranged with adequate 
space. 
   
 (5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a way as to maintain proper 
cleanliness. 
   
 (6) The premises shall be properly ventilated and lighted, or artiﬁ cially fulﬁ lled with the 
necessary requirements. 
   
 (7) All outputs on the premises shall be permanently made. 
   
 (8) There shall be separate entrances and exits to the premise s and there shall be emergency exits 
to exit the premises in case of an emergency. 
   
 (9) Lecture halls shall be set up in the premises with platforms and they shall be well ventilated 
or air conditioned. 
   
 (10) Each lecture hall shall have separate entrances and exits and shall include an additional exit 
door for emergency exits when the hall is for more than one hundred students. 
   
 (11) Loudspeaker facilities shall be provided when there is a lecture hall for more than ﬁ  fty 
children. 
   
 (12) In the interior layout of a lecture hall, the seats shall  be arranged so that they can be seated 
at a distance from each other and each seat shall have a table that is at least 0.75 m long and 
wide. 
   
 (13) If the tables and seats in a lecture hall are arranged in  such a way that they can be seated 
together, the space shall be kept so that the dimensions and di stances mentioned in Section 
12 above can be maintained and when seating for a group, seats and tables shall be set up to 
accommodate no more than six students. 
   
 (14) Between seats and tables; There shall be enough space bet ween each set of seat and table, 
and the space provided shall be in such way that it is easy to move. 
   
 (15) Seats and tables shall be ﬁ  rmly ﬁ xed to the ﬂ oor and all shall be well made and easy to 
use. 

<!-- page 62 -->

62A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (16) The interior walls of the premises shall be arranged in s uch a way that they do not retain 
organisms and every wall shall be properly ﬁ nished. 
   
 (17) The premises shall have a ﬁ  re protection program in place and a ﬁ re safety certiﬁ cate shall 
be obtained as applicable. 
   
 (18) All halls and other buildings constructed within the prem ises and section without constructions 
shall be free from unsafe barriers and shall be in a risk-free condition. 
   
 (19) Drains in the premises shall be constructed in such a way  that it easily drained without 
retaining wastewater and shall be directed to a septic tank or a soakage pit or a central 
treatment unit. 
   
 (20) Septic tanks and soakage pits installed in the premises s hall be installed in accordance with 
the approved plan and if there is a water source, it shall be set at a distance of at least 15.25 m 
away and it shall not be exposed to air. 
   
 (21) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the prem ises and all latrines;
  (A)  Shall be provided separately for males and females.
  (B)  Shall equipped with water storage facilities to maintain  an adequate supply of water 
on a regular basis.
  (C)  Each latrine shall have a permanent well-ﬁ  xed stainless water basin with a good water 
supply for hand washing at a speciﬁ ed space allocated.
   
9.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 8 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 8 are not 
complied with. 
   
10.  The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by- law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
11.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license 
applies. 
   
12.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka 
Issuing a license
Fees for a license
Validity period of 
a license
Information 
related to a license

<!-- page 63 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
63A
or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic 
has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or 
regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) The premises shall be well ventilated; if not, all lecture  halls shall be air-conditioned and the 
relevant air conditioning machines shall be in good working condition in order to maintain a 
proper temperature. 
   
 (3) The sound emitted by the loudspeakers maintained in the le cture halls; shall be 
adequately controlled and maintained in accordance with the Nat ional Environmental 
Regulations. 
   
 (4) If someone with an infectious disease condition arrives, t here shall be a speciﬁ c place on 
each premises to temporarily quarantine them.
 
 (5) Suﬃ   cient identity information including the name, addresses, and  telephone numbers of all 
those studying on the premises shall be maintained, and information about the daily visitors 
shall be maintained in an identiﬁ able manner. 
   
 (6) All latrines in the premises shall be regularly disinfecte d and maintained.
 
 (7) All drains in the premises shall be properly cleaned and m aintained on the ground surface 
preventing water and dust retention. 
   
 (8) If hand hygiene is required when entering the premises, wa ter basins with adequate water 
supply shall be installed and cleaning agents and sanitizers shall be provided. 
   
 (9) Seats shall be arranged in such a way that the lecturer is  easily visible to the students and the 
students are easily visible to the lecturer. 
   
 (10) A system shall be set up to record information about thos e who visit the premises on each 
day when the educational activities takes place, shall maintain a separate identity information 
regarding all those who work on the premises. 
   
 (11) About employees working on the premises,
  (A)  If employed as a resident, there shall be adequate sanit ary facilities and accommodation 
facilities.
  (B)  Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided and mainta ined separately for males and 
females. 
   
 (12) First aid facilities shall be provided on the premises so  that they can be used for emergencies; 
The staﬀ  shall be trained for that. 
   
 (13) Noise generated during lectures on the premises shall be controlled in accordance with the 
regulations of the Central Environmental Authority. 
   

<!-- page 64 -->

64A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (14) All electrical wiring connections in the premises shall b e properly maintained; A report from 
an electrical engineer or a qualiﬁ ed professional shall be obtained at least once in every two 
years. 
   
 (15) A person suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infected or such a vector 
or an infected person shall not be employed on the premises and  the license holder shall be 
satisﬁ ed that such person is not employed. 
   
 (16) Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed in sea led garbage bins speciﬁ  cally 
maintained for that purpose; and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises; 
all of them shall only be disposed into foot-operated container s which shall be maintained 
on the premises for only that purpose. 
   
 (17) Sewage collected on the premises shall be disposed in acc ordance with a program 
implemented by the Urban Council or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (18) It is lawful for the Chairman to carry out the following actions on the premises or any of 
them or any other regulations for the beneﬁ t of public health on the advice of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health when required to act in the event of an outbrea k of an epidemic under the 
Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or a regulation made under it or when 
there is an epidemic situation in the authority area or when th e Chairman has decided, on 
the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, that there are suﬃ  cient grounds to suspect the 
spread of an epidemic.
  (A)  That the work on the premises carried out under the lice nces shall be temporarily 
suspended for a period of time.
  (B)  That an emergency response plan shall be in place on the  premises.
  (C)  That mass gatherings within the premises shall be stoppe d.
  (D)  That the distribution of lecture leaﬂ  ets by hand shall be stopped.
  (E)  That a speciﬁ  ed distance shall be maintained within the premises.
  (F)  That to make sure that the body temperature is below the  normal range, when entering 
the premises.
  (G)  That the air conditioner ﬁ  lters shall be cleaned once a week.
 
  (H)  That shall be entered to a statement of agreement with t he Chairman related to the 
maintenance of the premises in accordance with the set of instructions.
  (I)  That food shall not be sold or distributed on the premis es.
  (J)  That respiratory etiquettes shall be followed when cough ing and sneezing.
 
  (K)  That there shall be a speciﬁ  c place for food consumption and that food shall be 
consumed separately at that place.

<!-- page 65 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
65A
  (L)  That health guidelines to be maintained on the premises shall be exhibited in an easily 
identiﬁ able manner.
  (M)  That entry into the premises and exit from the premises shall be done in groups.
 
  (N)  That those who work on the premises shall undergo regula r medical check-ups as 
prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health at regular intervals. 
   
13.  If the sale of processed food is carried out on the premis es, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with the relevant written laws and none of those shall be considered to have 
been suppressed subject to a license obtained under this by-law. 
   
14.  Each premises shall display this by-law and the license ob tained thereon or a copy 
thereof. 
   
15.  It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publ ic Health Inspector or any other 
authorized oﬃ  cer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable 
time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
   
16. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to t he license holder informing a 
speciﬁ c time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period 
to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be 
subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the  period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst 
notice. 
   
17.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder fails to be 
comply with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 
above. 
   
18.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court 
for that oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of  the Urban Council 
Ordinance, Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by 
him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to i n that sub-section for each day 
of such violation.  
   
19.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
    “Council” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
That the license 
shall be displayed.
Power to enter a 
premises
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty

<!-- page 66 -->

66A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council.
  "Basic Law" means the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255.
   
20.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
   
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address of the private educational institution: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09.  If the private educational institution is registered, its reference number: -  
10.  Information of the manager or agent of the private educational institution,
  I. Name and Personal Address
  II. National Identity Card Number
  III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
11.  Approved building plan number and date: -
12.  Number and Date of the Certiﬁ cate of Conformity: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year…………
Date:-………………………. ………………………….
 Signature of the applicant.
 Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 67 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
67A
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-...............................                                                                            .................................
 Secretary
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health 

<!-- page 68 -->

68A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
BY-LAW
 REGULARIZING BARBER SALOONS AND HAIRDRESSERS
1.  This By-law is enacted to regulate and supervise hairdressi ng centers and barber shops in the 
authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Council. 
   
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law on Hairdressing Centers of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council. 
   
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance. 
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Peliyagoda Urban C ouncil (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain a hairdressing center or barber shop (hereinafter referred to 
as a premise) except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ  lling the 
requirements and submitting an application to the Chairman by r egistered post, handing 
over in hand or by e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the 
Chairman unless the following conditions are fulﬁ lled. 
   
 (1) Constructions relevant to the premises shall be constructi ons in accordance with the 
provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 197 8 or the Housing and 
Urban Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) The premises shall be maintained under its own business na me. 
   
 (3) Proof that the employees who work on the premises are skil led in hairdressing shall be 
submitted. 
   
 (4) Constructions on the premises shall be well constructed of  permanent construction materials 
and in good and health safety condition. 
   
 (5) Space set apart for providing services for each customer s hall be minimum of 2.25 square 
meters and there shall be adequate space proportionate to the number of customers who are 
to be provided services at the same time.  
   
 (6) For any customer who arrive therein in anticipation of ser vices; shall be provided with 
adequate space to be seated conveniently with at least 1.5 mete rs distance from the place 
where another customer is already being served.  
   
 (7) All walls of the premises shall be not less than 2.7 meter s high and shall be painted. 
Short title
Legal power
Conditions for a 
license
Applying for 
a License

<!-- page 69 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
69A
 (8) Each part of the premises shall be ﬁ  nished with a ceiling or concrete slab at a height of not 
less than 2.7 meters from the ground level. 
   
 (9) The premises shall be air-conditioned or have windows that  can be opened suﬃ  ciently to 
allow air to ﬂ ow in from the outside. 
   
 (10) Premises shall be ﬁ  nished to receive light ﬁ nely.  
   
 (11) Drinking water for use in the premises shall be adequatel y supplied and shall equipped with 
water storage facilities. 
   
 (12) If required clients shall be provided with the facilities  to take a shower after setting their 
hair. 
   
 (13) A separate part of the premises shall be maintained for w ashing the equipment and containers 
used for the customers. 
   
 (14) There shall be adequate latrine facilities for the employ ees and customers of the institution 
and it shall be well constructed and hygienic.
 (15) Speciﬁ  c equipment shall be ﬁ xed to wash hair of the customers, and shall be maintained by 
cleaning and disinfecting after use by one person before use by another.
 (16) Adequate measures shall be taken to ensure that wastewate r discharged from the premises 
does not ﬂ ow into public drains or open spaces, and shall be properly di rected to a septic 
tank or soakage pit.
 (17) A septic tank or soakage pit relevant to the premises sha ll not be open to the outside and 
if there is a water source it shall be constructed at a distanc e of at least 15.25 meters 
away. 
 (18) There shall be a separate area on the premises with adequ ate facilities for the customers 
waiting for services.
 (19) The electrical circuit in the premises shall be checked b y a professional and certiﬁ ed to be 
safe from leakage.
 (20) A separate place shall be maintained to clean the equipme nt and containers used in the 
premises. 
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lic ense made under this by-law, the 
Chairman; 
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the prem ises if it is in accordance with the 
conditions mentioned in Section 7.
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it i s not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
Issuing a license

<!-- page 70 -->

70A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections 
in connection with the issuance of a license.
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license 
is related.
11.  All persons received a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situatio n declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authorit y area or in any case where 
an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such 
terms. 
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all orders issued by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of an outbreak of an 
epidemic being declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance.
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of a risk of an epidemic in the authority area, service facilities 
shall not be provided on the premises unless all persons seekin g services come to the 
premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
 (4) Health safety instructions shall be implemented properly o n the premises as directed by the 
Director General of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman 
on their instructions, in case of any outbreak or risk of any epidemic in the authority area to 
protect from it, and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so.
 (5) Every time engages in haircuts, hair colorings, beards and  hair removal of the customers, 
everyone who engages in such activities shall wear face masks a nd gloves as much as 
possible.
 (6) A document containing information relevant to each custome r receiving the services shall be 
maintained.
 (7) Customers shall be encouraged to bring their own cloths to  cover the upper body when 
service is given, otherwise the used cloths shall not be used for another customer until it has 
been washed, dried and cleaned after used for one customer.
 (8) As recommended by the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health, Public Health Inspector all equipment, 
combs, brushes, etc., used for the activities including haircut s shall not be used for another 
customer unless disinfected after used for one customer. 
Fees for a license
Validity period of 
a license

<!-- page 71 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
71A
 (9) The windows shall be kept open for good circulation of air  in the premises, and if air 
conditioned, all air conditioners shall be kept constant at the prescribed temperature.
 (10) The ﬁ  lters of the air conditioners in the premises shall be regular ly cleaned and 
maintained. 
 (11) The relevant service shall be provided only after the han ds have been cleaned with soap or 
sanitizer before providing the service to the customer.
 (12) When working on the premises, the service shall not be pr ovided to a customer without 
adequate cleaning prior to service after the use of toilets or after contact with any 
contaminants.
 (13) When serving the customers on the premises, every service  provider shall wear an apron and 
it shall be of very clean condition.
 (14) Dust and hair shall be swept and removed after each servi ce on the premises, and all shall be 
temporarily disposed into a sealed garbage bin.
 (15) Floor, chairs, and tables on the premises shall be cleane d daily with disinfectant before 
starting work.
 (16) No person shall use the service area of the premises for eating or any other purpose. 
 (17) Foot-operated garbage bins with lids shall be kept for th e separate collection of waste 
collected in the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that.  
 (18) The following procedures shall be followed in the managem ent of waste that collects in 
relation to the premises.
 (A)  Removed hair shall be collected at the end of each servic e and disposed in a separate 
garbage bin. 
 (B)  Other waste generated by the activities in the premises s hall be collected separately 
without mixing them with the discharged hair. 
 (C)  The waste related to the premises shall be disposed in ac cordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Urban Council or in accor dance with the 
waste disposal strategy implemented by the license holder as ag reed by the Public 
Health Inspector. 
 (19) Latrines in the premises shall be cleaned and disinfected  at least twice a day and shall be kept 
free from odor, and in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an epidemic in the authority 
area, the latrines on the premises shall be cleaned and maintai ned in accordance with the 
guidelines given by the Chairman as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
 (20) All employees work on the premises shall have a proper tr aining in using equipment, and 
shall not use any chemical for dyeing that is not approved by the health authority. 

<!-- page 72 -->

72A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (21) Any person who suﬀ  ers from any infection, transmittable or skin disease, or who has recently 
suﬀ ered from such a disease, or who has recently nursing a person who has recently infected 
from any such disease, unless the period of infection and incubation has expired, shall not be 
employed or employed as an assistant at any licensed place. 
 (22) Any person identiﬁ  ed as suﬀ ering from any infection, transmittable or skin disease shall not 
normally be entered to the premises for service.
 (23) When the license holder decides or in case where it is pr escribed by the Chairman or any 
other competent authority instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the body temperature 
of all persons visits seeking services on the premises shall be  checked and entered into the 
premises, and required thermometers shall be maintained to chec k the body temperature 
without contact.
 (24) The health guidelines to be followed by each customer on the premises shall be displayed 
on the premises and the license holder shall ensure that all ac tivities are carried out in 
accordance with those guidelines.
 (25) First aid facilities shall be maintained on the premises and the staﬀ  employed shall be trained 
for that as well.
 (26) Relevant to all persons who serve on the premises, the li cense holder shall ensure, 
  (A)  That the clothing worn at work is clean and in good heal th condition. 
  (B)  That the jewelry worn and their nails are maintained in a manner that does not harm 
the customer. 
  (C)  That the hands are sanitized and cleaned prior to servic e. 
 (27) It is the responsibility of the license holder to subject  the employees work on the premises 
for a medical checkup at least once a year.
 (28) A copy of this By-law and the license shall be displayed in all premises. 
12.  It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any ot her oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman 
to enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect whether the premises is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law.
13.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of a n epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter int o a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement wi th the Chairman, and the 
Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
14.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises 
shall be maintained in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 

<!-- page 73 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
73A
15.  It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publ ic Health Inspector or any other 
authorized oﬃ  cer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable 
time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with t he provisions of this 
By-law. 
16. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to t he license holder informing a 
speciﬁ c time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law.
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to 
a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
17.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder fails to be 
comply with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 
above.
18.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court 
for that oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of  the Urban Council 
Ordinance, Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized 
by him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred t o in the aforesaid Subsection 
153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 for each day of such violation. 
19.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  “Council” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council,
  "Disinfectants" means a chemical agent that physically reduce s the amount of microorganisms 
in the environment to a level that does not reduce their safety or suitability,
  "Reasonable time" means the time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work. 
20.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
   
Power to enter the 
premises
Cancellation of 
the license
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 74 -->

74A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Nature of the business: -
06. Start year: -
07. Address of the hairdressing center: - 
08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
11. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and Personal Address: -
 II. National Identity Card Number: -
 III. Phone Number    Mobile: -  Fixed: -
12. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
  (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request that a trade license to be issued to me for the year ............................ for the place where the industry, trade 
mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules and regulations on this regard.
Date:-………………………. ………………………….
 Signature of the applicant. 
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
Date:-...............................                                                                             ............ .....................
 Secretary
             

<!-- page 75 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
75A
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health

<!-- page 76 -->

76A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING DISINFECTION OF PUBLIC PLACES
1.  This By-law is enacted to make provisions for the relevant incidental matters, including 
the disinfection of public places and places of worship within the authority area of the 
Peliyagoda Urban Council.
2.  This By-law is cited as the by-law regarding the provisions  relating to disinfection of public 
places in the Peliyagoda Urban Council.
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these By- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
4.  Under the following circumstances the Chairman shall disinf ect or arrange to do so any 
place where the public gathers or gathered for matters of public importance or for a speciﬁ c 
purpose including places of worship within the authority area o f the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council (herein after referred to as authority area):
 (1) In cases where there is a need to disinfect places of wors hip or other places where public 
gathers or gathered located within the authority area in accordance with the provisions of the 
Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it.
 (2) When there is a spread of an epidemic in any part or terri tory of Sri Lanka or in the authority 
area or when the Chairman has decided on the advice of the Medi cal Oﬃ  cer of Health that 
there are suﬃ  cient grounds to suspect the spread of any epidemic in the authority area. 
 (3) When a person dies due to an undiagnosed disease in a auth ority area and the places where 
the deceased person travelled has been identiﬁ ed.
 (4) When the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector has decided that  the 
premises should be disinfected when a large gathering of the public is held or is being held 
at any place of worship and when such a religious ceremony is over.
 (5) When a premises is maintained for a period of time without  any activity and is used to gather 
people back to the premises.
 (6) When it has been reported that a patient who has been infe cted or suspected of being 
infectious, or who has been in contact with such a patient has visited or acted in a place 
where public is gathered. 
 (7) When the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health has advised that the areas identiﬁ ed as common public 
places shall be disinfected, when an outbreak of an epidemic is  reported in their authority 
area or in any part of Sri Lanka.
 (8) When the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health has instructed that the relevant premises shall  be 
disinfected for the beneﬁ t of the public health, when it matters the public to gather a t any 
place of worship or public place.  
Short title.
Circumstances 
where disinfection
shall be done.

<!-- page 77 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
77A
 (9) When any public places are subject to disinfection in acco rdance with a plan implemented 
for the purpose of promoting and protecting public health in the authority area.
 (10) Whenever it is decided by the Chairman to disinfect any p ublic premises as per the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health that it should be done for the sake of a more 
accurate health care existence.
5.  If any public premises in the authority area is used by any  person for public gathering, when 
there is a possibility of an epidemic spreading in the area or when there is a suspicion that it 
may be so, it is lawful for the Chairman to make any of the following orders to the person or 
the organizer engaged as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
 (1) That the premises shall be disinfected before gathering th e people in the relevant 
premises. 
 (2) That the premises shall be disinfected after the people ha ve gathered and dispersed in the 
relevant premises.
 (3) That the premises shall be disinfected before and after us e.
6.  It is the responsibility and duty of the person who gets th e order to act in accordance with the 
orders made by the Chairman under the above section.
7.  The Chairman may act for the disinfection of religious plac es and public places within the 
authority area for the beneﬁ t of the public in accordance with a speciﬁ c schedule prepared 
on the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
8.  It is an oﬀ  ense if a person does not act in accordance with the orders ma de under Section 5 
above by the Chairman and shall be subject to a penalty under S ub-Section 153 (2) of the 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, after being convicted by a Magistrate Court. 
9.  If disregards the orders made by the Chairman under Section  5, it is lawful for the Chairman 
to disinfect the premises relevant to that order and charge the  defaulter the cost spent 
incurred.
10.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  "Council" means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at that time or performs the duties of that position,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means those who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
  "Public Health Inspector" means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council.
Ordering a party to 
disinfect.
Penalty.
Deﬁ nition

<!-- page 78 -->

78A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  "Person" means an individual or managing director or manager of the organization or any 
person acting on behalf of that organization when referring to an organization by the name 
of an individual.
11.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this 
By-law the Sinhala text shall prevail.
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING RECEPTION HALLS         
1.  This By-law is enacted to protect the public health under the activities of the reception halls 
maintained in the authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Counci l and regulate, supervise 
and control such places.  
   
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law Regarding Reception Hall s in the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council.   
 
3.  The Peliyagoda Urban Council is vested with powers to formu late these by- laws by virtue 
of Section 153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) 
of the said Ordinance. 
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Peliyagoda Urban C ouncil (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain a reception hall except unde r a license obtained from the 
Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this By-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ  lling the 
requirements and submitting an application to the Chairman by r egistered post, handing 
over in hand or by e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall n ot be issued a license by the 
Chairman unless the following conditions are met herein.
   
 (1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constr uctions duly made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing 
and Urban Development Ordinance and;
 
  (A)  If the authority area is subject to zoning, the relevant  constructions shall be located 
accordingly.
  
  (B)  The Certiﬁ  cate of Conformity shall be obtained prior to construction use.  
   
 (2) All constructions shall be well made of permanent construc tion materials. 
Inconsistency 
between texts.
Short title.
Legal Power.
Applying for a 
License.
 Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 79 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
79A
 (3) The reception halls shall have the necessary reservations,  divisions and placements to 
prevent cross-contamination, and the interior shall be designed  to maintain adequate 
distance. 
   
 (4) Adequate space shall be maintained inside the halls so tha t operations can be carried out 
without interruption. 
   
 (5) Premises including buildings shall be designed to prevent the entry and retention of pests and 
contamination substances. 
   
 (6) The premises shall be designed to facilitate easy and prop er cleaning and to facilitate proper 
supervision of food hygiene. 
   
 (7) The stages in the premises shall be of proper standard and  the halls shall be designed to 
absorb internal sound. 
   
 (8) The interior of the hall shall be air-conditioned or have windows that can be opened to not 
less than one-ﬁ fteenth of the area of the hall leaving space for adequate ventilation. 
   
 (9) Adequate lighting in halls shall be arranged in a natural or artiﬁ cial way. 
   
 (10) Doors shall have a smooth and non-absorbent surface and s hall be ﬁ xed in such a way that 
automatically closed when appropriate. 
   
 (11) Fire protection equipment shall be ﬁ  xed in all halls in the premises. 
   
 (12) There shall be no fungus growth or leakage from any of th e ﬁ xtures or structures installed in 
the premises. 
   
 (13) Window openings in the premises shall be easy to clean an d shall be ﬁ tted with nets to 
prevent insects from entering. 
   
 (14)  There shall be separate latrine facilities for customers  and employees, which shall be 
maintained separately for both males and females. 
   
 (15) Buildings on the premises shall be made with access facil ities for the disabled. 
   
 (16) Closed drains with slopes preventing sedimentation shall be installed as not to retain 
wastewater and sewage, and all drains shall be directed to a se ptic tank, soakage pit or 
central treatment unit constructed in accordance with an approv ed plan, and an approved 
method shall be followed through a water trap or plan to prevent contamination between the 
premises and the ﬁ nal disposal. 
   
 (17) The waste collected in the premises shall be handed over in accordance with a waste 
management program implemented by the Municipal Council or a sp eciﬁ c arrangement 
shall be made for the disposal of waste in accordance with a pr ocedure prescribed by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or Public Health Inspector. 
   

<!-- page 80 -->

80A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (18) Drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use i n the premises and shall be stored in 
containers under speciﬁ ed standards. 
   
 (19) Facilities made with stainless steel or other suitable ma terial for hand washing shall be 
supplied on the premises.  
   
 (20) In the cooking and processing area on the premises, 
  (A)  Floor and walls shall be made of washable and non-slip a nd non-absorbent materials.
  (B)  All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned deterg ents and disinfectants.
  (C)  The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensatio n and to prevent fungus 
formation and cracking.
  (D)  If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be shielded with covers 
prevent entering insects.
  (E)  Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ  ow of air from outside and to ﬂ  ow 
exhaust air out. 
   
 (21) In relation to the place where food is served to the cust omers on the premises;
  (A)  The space for serving food shall be prepared with more s pace so that food can be 
obtained with adequate distance. 
  (B)  When food is consumed in an open space, it shall be desi gned to get well ventilated 
and prevent birds and other animals from entering. 
   
 (22) Adequate parking lots shall be provided for visitors to t he premises. 
   
 (23) For the employees on the premises, 
  (A)  If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate  sanitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the foo d processing and 
storage area. 
  (B)  Rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square met ers of space is available for 
each employee to sleep. 
  (C)  Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provid ed.  
   
 (24) The premises shall be equipped with automatic generators of suﬃ  cient capacity to be utilized 
in case of emergency power failure. 
   
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman; 
Issuing a license

<!-- page 81 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
81A
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not 
complied with. 
   
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.  
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license 
applies. 
   
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situatio n declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authorit y area or in any case where 
an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine a nd Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such 
terms. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all guidelines made by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where a disease is 
declared applicable under the orders made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease 
Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they visit 
the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of  an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises 
in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the  eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed 
to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment uni t according to the approved 
procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall  be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectant and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensu re that all of them are 
being so. 
Fees for a license
Inspection fees
Validity period
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license

<!-- page 82 -->

82A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (7) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily, 
and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning proce ss boards mentioning on that 
regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers. 
   
 (8) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain wate r and shall be cleaned with 
disinfectants twice daily. 
   
 (9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the 
road or outside area. 
   
 (10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there  is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
 (12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shal l be maintained in accordance with 
the following requirements. 
   
  (A)   All equipment and utensils used in food preparation sha ll be made of a non-absorbent 
material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and sha ll be made of stainless 
material.
  (B)  All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to be easily cleaned.
  (C)  Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of meta l or non-leaking materials 
and shall have lids.
  (D)  All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suita ble condition to be 
used. 
   
 (13) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not 
harm the taste of the food. 
   
 (14) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar. 
   
 (15) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be t horoughly washed, cleaned and 
used. 
   
 (16) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous  containers free from 
contamination. 
   
 (17) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water. 
   
 (18) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that t hey can be distinguished from any 
other pipeline. 

<!-- page 83 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
83A
 (19) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on 
the premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons 
shall be employed to regulate it. 
   
 (20) Meat and ﬁ  sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigera tor on the premises 
and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsiu s until used without 
contamination. 
   
 (21) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling f ood on the premises;
 
  (A)  Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or  ﬁ ngers 
  (B)  Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a fa vorable  use for food. 
  (C)  A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
  (D)  The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall  always be kept out of contact 
with any food. 
  (E)  All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean a nd in separate containers.
  (F)  Employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve food in such a way that their 
activity, usage does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any 
way. 
   
 (22) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it 
or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in  the authority area as per the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, handling, 
serving, or assembling food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with 
the directives made by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the 
Chairman as per their instructions in addition to any other provisions of this By-Law.  
   
 (23) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels use d for cleaning shall be of 
clean condition. 
   
 (24) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants. 
   
 (25) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with  disinfectant shall be provided in 
the processing area of the premises and in the food consumption  areas of the premises and 
adequate lighting shall be maintained in the premises. 
   
 (26) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a 
way that they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use 
contamination of food. 

<!-- page 84 -->

84A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (27) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premi ses in any way. 
   
 (28) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and 
shall be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescrib ed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health to check that they are in proper health condition. Re levant records shall also be 
maintained so that they can be inspected at any time within the  premises. Also the health 
check-ups on them shall be both clinical and epidemiological. 
   
 (29) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and 
a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (30) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the written rules 
applicable to it. 
   
 (31) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public 
Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act in accordance 
with the instructions given by him. 
   
 (32) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises. 
   
 (33) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event 
of an epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes th e mask or gloves they are 
wearing on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed containers 
that are kept on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed 
in accordance with the waste management program and instruction s implemented by the 
Council without mixing with other wastes. 
   
 (34) Every person who handle food on the premises shall mainta in maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate hygienic 
clothing. 
   
 (35) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease 
or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds,  skin infections or any other 
infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.  
   
 (36) Every person involved in handling of food on the premises  where the reception halls are 
located shall not engage in activities such as smoking, spittin g, coughing, sneezing, or 
touching the nose, which can cause food contamination. 
   
 (37) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises. 
   
 (38) In the event of any person visits the premises for consum ption of food or employee serving 
on the premises of a reception hall contracted an infectious, t ransmittable or skin disease, 
the license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all 
persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him. 

<!-- page 85 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
85A
 (39) When the premises where the reception halls are located a re subjected to the quarantine 
process, the premises shall not be used for any festive occasio ns until a certiﬁ  cate has 
been issued by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector stating that the  
quarantine period is over and the premises have been completely disinfected. 
   
 (40) Health care measures that are implemented on the premises  shall be prominently displayed 
on the premises in such a way that everyone who handles and consumes food in the reception 
halls can learn about the relevant instructions and shall acted according to them. 
   
 (41) The license holder shall have provided all information re garding the employees working on 
the premises to the Chairman. 
   
12.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of a n epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter int o a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement wi th the Chairman, and the 
Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
13.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises 
shall be maintained in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
14.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.   
 
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to t he license holder informing a 
speciﬁ c time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period 
to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be 
subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst 
notice. 
   
16.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect 
being complied with the notice within the period of time or add itional period given under 
Section 15 above. 
   
17.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court 
for that oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council 
Ordinance, Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized 
by him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred t o in the aforesaid Subsection 
153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 for each day of such violation. 
Power to enter the 
premises
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty

<!-- page 86 -->

86A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
18.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
   “Council” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council,
              “License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a license 
under this by-law,
             “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council at 
that time,
            "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of co ntamination substance in a food, 
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by 
chemicals or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and 
suitability of food at all stages in the food chain,
  "Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health 
eﬀ ects,
  "Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to the customer during preparing, 
processing, selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work,
   "Basic Law" means the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255  Deﬁ nitions
   
20.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this 
By-law the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 87 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
87A
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the Year....................... 
01. Name of the Applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone Number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address where the reception hall is located : - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09.  If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference Number:-  
10.  Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
  I. Name and personal address
  II. National Identity Card Number
  III. Telephone Number    Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11.  Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
 (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Date:-………………………. ………………………….
     Signature of the applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-...............................                                                                            .................................
 Secretary
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 88 -->

88A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
     Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulati ons. I report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
BY-LAW
REGULARIZING  BEAUTY CENTERS
1.  This By-law is enacted to control and regulate the maintena nce of beauty centers maintained 
within the authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Council.
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law Relating To  Beauty Cent ers of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council.
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Peliyagoda Urban C ouncil (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall maintain a beauty center (hereinafter referred to as the premises) 
except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law.
Short title
Legal Power

<!-- page 89 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
89A
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ  lling the 
requirements and submitting an application to the Chairman by r egistered post, handing 
over in hand or by e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7.  Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall n ot be issued a license by the 
Chairman unless the following conditions are met herein.
 (1) Constructions relating to the premises shall be constructi ons duly made in accordance with 
the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and 
Urban Development Ordinance. 
 (2) The premises shall be maintained under its own business na me. 
 (3) The License holder shall conﬁ  rm that a person with a Certiﬁ cate in Beauty Certiﬁ cate or a 
similar vocational competency certiﬁ cate conducted by a training institute registered with 
the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission is employed on the premises.
 (4) Constructions on the premises shall be made of permanent c onstruction materials and shall 
be of good and hygienic condition.
 (5) Adequate space shall be provided in proportion to the numb er of clients simultaneously 
serving not less than 2.25 square meters of ﬂ oor area separately for each client.
 (6) For any client who arrive therein in anticipation of servi ces shall provide with adequate 
space to be seated conveniently with at least 1:5 meters distan ce from the place where 
another client is being served.
 (7) All walls of the premises shall be not less than 2.7 meter s in height and shall be painted.
 (8) All sections of the premises shall be ﬁ  nished with a ceiling or concrete plate and shall be at 
least 2.7 meters above the ground level.
 (9) The premises shall be air-conditioned or have windows that  can be opened suﬃ  ciently to 
allow air to ﬂ ow in from the outside.
 (10) The premises shall be well ﬁ  nished so that the relevant light is well received. 
 (11) Drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use o f the premises and shall be stored 
in containers which meet the standards.
 (12) Facilities shall be provided for bathing when required af ter providing the services of the 
client.
 (13) A separate part of the premises shall be maintained for w ashing the equipment and containers 
used for the clients.
Applying for a 
License
Conditions related 
to a license

<!-- page 90 -->

90A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (14) There shall be adequate latrine facilities for the employ ees and customers of the institution 
and it shall be constructed of permanent materials in a proper and hygienic manner.
 (15) Speciﬁ  c equipment shall be ﬁ xed for washing the hands, head or face of the customers and 
they shall be cleaned and disinfected after use by one person b efore being used by another 
and that equipment shall be made of stainless materials.
 (16) Adequate measures shall be taken not ﬂ  ow the wastewater discharged from the premises into 
public drains or open ground and shall be properly directed to a septic tank or a soakage pit. 
 (17) A septic tank or soakage pit relevant to the premises sha ll not be open to the outside and 
if there is a water source it shall be constructed at a distanc e of at least 15.25 meters 
away.   
 (18) If there is a disposal of chemical wastewater from the pr emises, the relevant disposal shall be 
made in accordance with a procedure recommended by the Central Environmental Authority 
or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector.
 (19) There shall be a separate area on the premises with adequ ate facilities for the customers 
waiting for services.
 (20) The electrical circuit in the premises shall be checked b y a professional and certiﬁ ed to be 
safe from leakage.
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lic ense made under this by-law, the 
Chairman;
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the prem ises if it is in accordance with the 
conditions mentioned in Section 7.
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it i s not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections 
in connection with the issuance of a license.
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the 
license is related.
11.  All persons received a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situatio n declared throughout Sri 
Issuing a license
Fees for a license

<!-- page 91 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
91A
Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authorit y area or in any case where 
an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine a nd Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such 
terms. 
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all orders issued by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of an outbreak of an 
epidemic being declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance.
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of a risk of an epidemic in the authority area, service facilities 
shall not be provided on the premises unless all persons seekin g services come to the 
premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
 (4) Health safety instructions shall be implemented properly o n the premises as directed by the 
Director General of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman 
on their instructions, in case of any outbreak or risk of any epidemic in the authority area to 
protect from it, and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so.
 (5) An information register shall be maintained relevant to al l those who come to the premises 
expecting services.
 (6) Every time engages in haircuts, hair colorings, beards and  hair removal of the customers, 
everyone who engages in such activities shall wear face masks a nd gloves as much as 
possible.
 (7) To manage and maintain equipment and utensils on the premi ses, the license holder shall 
ensure that there are, 
  (A)  Adequate facilities for the sterilization of used equipm ent and utensils; 
  (B)  an accepted sterilization method and a adequate number o f equipment used for 
sterilization; 
  (C)  Soap or soapy liquid with hand washing facilities when p roviding services to the 
service providers inside; 
  (D)  Adequate number of white or other light colored towels a nd upper body covers and 
hats for the use of the clients; 
  (E)  When electric power tools are used, secure and permanent  power plugs, to one 
customer's desk; 
  (F)  Sterilization methods after each use of equipment.
 (8) Every employee working on the premises shall have a traini ng in the use of safety equipment, 
service delivery and other activities related to the premises.

<!-- page 92 -->

92A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (9) Facilities shall be available to provide hot and cold wate r as required for the services relevant 
to the premises.
 (10) Everything used for cosmetic purposes shall be standardiz ed things approved and registered.
 (11) Service providers shall be well trained to provide ﬁ  rst aid functions as required under the 
services provided on the premises.
 (12) The windows shall be kept open for good circulation of ai r in the premises, and if air 
conditioned, all air conditioners shall be kept constant at the prescribed temperature.
 (13) The ﬁ  lters of the air conditioners in the premises shall be regularly cleaned and maintained.
 (14) The relevant service shall be provided only after the han ds have been cleaned with soap or 
sanitizer before providing the service to a customer.
 (15) When working on the premises, the service shall not be pr ovided to a customer without 
adequate cleaning prior to service after the use of toilets or after contact with any 
contaminants.
 (16) When serving the customers on the premises, every service  provider shall wear an apron and 
it shall be of very clean condition. 
   
 (17) Dust and hair shall be swept and removed after each servi ce on the premises, and all shall be 
temporarily disposed into a sealed garbage bin. 
   
 (18) Floor, chairs, and tables on the premises shall be cleane d daily with disinfectants before 
starting work. 
   
 (19) No person shall use the service area of the premises for eating or any other purpose. 
   
. (20) Foot-operated garbage bins with lids shall be kept for t he separate collection of waste 
collected in the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that.  
   
 (21) The following procedures shall be followed in the managem ent of waste that collects in 
relation to the premises.
 (A)  Removed hair shall be collected at the end of each servic e and disposed in a separate 
garbage bin. 
 (B)  Other waste generated by the activities in the premises s hall be collected separately 
without mixing them with the discharged hair. 
 (C)  The waste related to the premises shall be disposed in ac cordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Urban Council or in accor dance with the 
waste disposal strategy implemented by the license holder as ag reed by the Public 
Health Inspector. 

<!-- page 93 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
93A
 (22) Latrines in the premises shall be cleaned and disinfected  at least twice a day and shall be kept 
free from odor, and in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an epidemic in the authority 
area, the latrines on the premises shall be cleaned and maintai ned in accordance with the 
guidelines given by the Chairman as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
 (23) Any person who suﬀ  ers from any infection, transmittable or skin disease, or who has recently 
suﬀ ered from such a disease, or who has recently nursing a person who has recently infected 
from any such disease, unless the period of infection and incub ation has expired, shall not 
be employed or employed as an assistant at any licensed place.
 (24) Any person identiﬁ  ed as suﬀ ering from any infection, transmittable or skin disease shall not 
normally be entered to the premises for service.
 (25) When the license holder decides or in case where it is pr escribed by the Council or any other 
competent authority as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the body temperature of 
all persons visit seeking service on the premises shall be chec ked to ensure that their body 
temperature is at a normal level and entered into the premises,  and required thermometers 
shall be maintained to check body temperature without contact.
 (26) The health guidelines to be followed by each client on th e premises shall be displayed on the 
premises and the license holder shall ensure that all activitie s are carried out in accordance 
with those guidelines.
 (27) Applies to everyone employed on the premises, the license  holder shall ensure that,
  (A)  That the clothing worn at work is clean and in good heal th condition,
  (B)  That the jewelry worn and their nails are maintained in a manner that does not harm 
the customer,
  (C)  That the hands are sanitized and cleaned prior to servic e.
 (28) It is the job of the license holder to subject the employ ees of the premises to medical checkups 
at least once a year. 
   
 (29) A copy of this by-law and license shall be maintained on display in each premises. 
12.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of a n epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter int o a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement wi th the Chairman, and the 
Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
13.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises 
shall be maintained in accordance with all the terms of that Order.
14.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
Power to enter the 
premises.

<!-- page 94 -->

94A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this 
By-law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a speciﬁ c time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period 
to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be 
subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst 
notice. 
16.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect 
being complied with the notice within the period of time or add itional period given under 
Section 15 above.
17.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court 
for that oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Section 153 of Urban Council Ordinance, 
Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 153(2) of the said Ordin ance. Further, after being 
found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, if the violation continues even after the notice has bee n 
given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Section 153 of Urban Counc il Ordinance, Chapter 255, 
read with the Sub-Section 153(2) of the said Ordinance for each day of such violation.
18.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  “Council” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council,
  "Disinfectant" means to reduce the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by a 
chemical agent or physical means to a level that does not reduce the safety or suitability,
  "Reasonable Time" shall mean the Licensed Function or the rel evant time.
19.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
   
Cancellation of the 
license.
Penalty.
Deﬁ nitions.
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 95 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
95A
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the Year.......................
 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address where the beauty center is maintained: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number:-  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place:
  I. Name and personal address:
  II. National Identity Card Number:
  III. Telephone Number:     Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
 (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Date:-………………………. ………………………….
     Signature of the applicant.
For oﬃ  ce use
 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date:-...............................                                                                            .................................
 Secretary.

<!-- page 96 -->

96A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Revenue Inspector.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promp tly for the issuance of a license in 
respect of the application mentioned in the back.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
     Secretary.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.  
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Public Health Inspector.
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the rel evant place as per above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health.

<!-- page 97 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
97A
BY-LAW  
REGULARIZING LAUNDRY AND WASHING PLACES
1.  This By-law is enacted to regulate and supervise the operat ion of laundry and washing places 
maintained within the authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Council. 
   
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-Law on the Maintenance of La undry and Washing Places in 
the Peliyagoda Urban Council.   
 
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance. 
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Peliyagoda Urban C ouncil (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall operate a laundry or a washing center (hereinafter referred to as a 
premise) except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ  lling the 
requirements and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over 
in hand or by e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the 
Chairman unless the following conditions are fulﬁ lled.
 (1) If the constructions relevant to the premises are permanen t constructions, all such constructions 
shall be constructions in accordance with the provisions of the Urban Development Authority 
Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance.
 (2) There shall be separate room facilities for temporary stor age of cloths brought for cleaning 
in the premises till cleaning.
 (3) Accepting cloths for cleaning on the premises and returnin g the cleaned cloths shall not be 
done by one person at the same time.
 (4) When washing, drying and reprocessing of clothes take plac e in the same premises,
 
 (A)  Drainage related to the premises shall be maintained in s uch a way that it is easily 
drained and wastewater shall be diverted to a septic tank, soak age pit or central 
treatment unit according to approved procedures.
 (B)  Machines used for washing and drying clothes shall be in good working condition, 
properly ﬁ tted to the ﬂ oor and set up so that the noise generated during operation does 
not spread to the outside. 
Short title.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 98 -->

98A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (C)  The electrical circuit of the premises shall be one which  is ﬁ xed permanently and the 
plugs shall be properly ﬁ tted for the required electrical capacity. 
 (D)  The water discharged during washing shall be ﬁ  nally disposed of without any outﬂ ow. 
 (E)  Windows and openings shall be ﬁ  tted out to allow light and air to enter the premises 
easily, and if not shall be artiﬁ cially lighted and air conditioned.
 (F)  Tables and other equipment for ironing work shall be set up at a suﬃ  cient distance so 
that they can be used properly. 
 (G)  Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided for the em ployees working on the 
premises and adequate latrine facilities shall be provided for both males and females.
 (H)  There shall be hygienic containers to keep the cleaned cl othes temporarily and they 
shall not contact with the dirty clothes in any way. 
 (I)  There shall be rooms or partitions with doors that can be  closed to keep clothes after 
ironing until they are returned. 
 (J)  The interior of the premises shall be designed to maintai n a proper distance when 
required. 
 (5) When washing clothes outside the premises, a public water source shall not be used for that 
purpose and the applicant shall be certiﬁ ed,
 (A)  That washing clothes will be done at a place speciﬁ  ed for that purpose and that the 
place will be conﬁ rmed from time to time;
 (B)  That no chemical used in cleaning clothes are released in to any water source after 
use.  
 (6) When washing clothes is done outside the premises, necessa ry facilities shall be provided 
to ensure that dirty clothes are not mixed or contact with clea ned clothes in any way while 
carrying dirty clothes outside the premises to wash and bringing them back after cleaning. 
 (8) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers.
 (9) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of suﬃ   cient capacity shall be available to 
be utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply failure.
 (10) Internal drainage and sewage disposal in the premises sha ll be directed to a septic tank or 
soakage pit, and if the septic tank or soakage pit is in a wate r source, it shall be more than 
15.25 m away. 
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lic ense made under this By-law, the 
Chairman;
 
Issuing a license.

<!-- page 99 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
99A
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the prem ises if it is in accordance with the 
conditions mentioned in Section 7.
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it i s not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
 
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections 
in connection with the issuance of a license.
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the 
license is related.
11.  All persons received a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
 (1) The clothes handed over for cleaning shall be kept in a co ntainer in a speciﬁ c room on the 
premises until it is cleaned.
 (2) Disposal of any chemicals used to clean clothes on the pre mises shall be done in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health 
Inspector. 
 (3) Drains or pipes which discharge waste water due to cleanin g of clothes in the premises shall 
be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit so that it does not open on the ground surface.
 (4) Latrines for employees on the premises shall be kept clean  and disinfected.
 (5) If burning charcoal is used for ironing, they shall be tho roughly extinguished after use, 
collected in a separate container and disposed as waste.
 (6) If there are residential employees on the premises;
 (A)  Separate residential facilities shall be provided under a dequate sanitation facilities.
 (B)  The area for the purpose of accommodation and dining on t he premises shall be kept 
separate from the area where the licensing process takes place.
 (7) A person suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infected or such a vector 
or an infected person shall not be employed on the premises in any way and the license 
holder shall be always satisﬁ ed that such person is not employed.
 (8) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation d eclared throughout Sri Lanka 
or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic 
Fees for a license

<!-- page 100 -->

100A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or 
regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms.
 (9) It is lawful for the Chairman to order, on the instruction s of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
to carry out all or some of the following actions in connection  with the conduct of license-
related functions in the premises in the event of the implementation of regulations relating to 
any epidemic situation in the authority area under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the regulations made under it. 
  (A)  That the activities on the premises carried out under th e license shall be temporarily 
suspended for a certain period of time. 
 (B)  That work shall be carried out keeping speciﬁ  c social distancing while working on the 
premises.
 (C)  A speciﬁ  c procedure shall be followed in handing over dirty clothes, c leaning and 
returning. 
 (D)  The health guidelines applicable to the activities on the  premises shall be displayed in 
a manner visible to the public and employees.  
 (E)  That shall enter into a statement of agreement with the C hairman stating that the 
premises will be maintained in accordance with the health regul ations applicable 
from time to time. 
 (F)  Employees working on the premises shall engage in work we aring gloves and masks 
for speciﬁ c purposes.
 (G)  That the premises shall be disinfected.  
12.  Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed to seal ed garbage bins speciﬁ  cally 
maintained for that purpose, and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises, 
all of them shall only be disposed into foot-operated container s which shall be maintained 
on the premises for only that purpose. 
13.  Waste collected on the premises shall be disposed in accor dance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
14.  Each premises shall display this By-law and the license ob tained thereon or a copy 
thereof. 
15.  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any other authorize d Public Health Inspector or any 
other authorized oﬃ  cer to enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect w hether the 
premises is in accordance with the provisions of this By-law. 
16. (1) In the event of being against this by-law or violation of the provisions of this by-law in a 
premises licensed under this by-law, the Chairman shall submit to the license holder a notice 
informing a speciﬁ c time period not exceeding thirty days to be in compliance wi th the by-
law.
That the license 
shall be displayed.
Power to enter a 
premises

<!-- page 101 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
101A
 (2) After submitting a notice under this Section to the licens e holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period 
to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be 
subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the  period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst 
notice. 
17.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder fails to be 
comply with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 
above.
18.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this By-law 
or in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after bein g convicted by a Magistrate 
Court for that oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Section 153 of the U rban Council 
Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the  said Ordinance. Further, 
after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an 
additional penalty referred to in that sub-section for each day of such violation.
19.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  “Council” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council.
  "Basic Law" means the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255.
20.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this 
By-law the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
   
Cancellation of 
the license
Penalty
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 102 -->

102A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
First Schedule
Application for a License for the Year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address of the laundry or the washing place: -
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. Approved building plan number and date: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year…………
Date:-………………………. ………………………….
     Signature of the applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations as soon as possible for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Secretary
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 103 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
103A
Chairman,
I recommend issuing a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
     Secretary
Secretary,
I approve the issuance of a license.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
     Chairman
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING FOOD PRODUCTION PLACES
1.  This By-law is enacted to regulate, monitor, inspect and co ntrol food production places 
within the authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Council. 
   
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law Regarding Food Productio n Places of the Peliyagoda 
Urban Council. 
   
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance. 
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Peliyagoda Urban C ouncil (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain a place where food is produc ed commercially for human 
consumption (hereinafter referred to as the premises in some places) except under a license 
obtained from the Chairman under this By-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule published in this By-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ  lling the 
requirements and submitting an application to the Chairman by r egistered post, handing 
over in hand or by e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall n ot be issued a license by the 
Chairman unless the following conditions are met herein. 
Short title
Legal power
That a license 
shall be obtained
Applying for 
a License
Conditions for 
a license

<!-- page 104 -->

104A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constr uctions duly made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing 
and Urban Development Ordinance and;
 
 (A)  The material used in all constructions shall not emit tox ic substances and shall not 
emit toxic gases, and all constructions shall be made up of surfaces where organisms 
cannot be easily retained.
 (B)  The internal layout shall be designed with adequate space  to enable the service to be 
performed without interruption. 
 (C)  Shall be designed with a protective layout to prevent ent ry of contamination substances 
into food raw material and cooked food.
 (D)  Shall be designed to check the hygienic conditions of the  internal foods of the 
premises.
 (E)  Things disposed under the internal processing activities of the premises shall be 
arranged with references that will not ﬂ ow back in any way. 
   
 (2)  In the food processing area of the premises, 
  (A)  Floor and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and non-absorbent materials.
  (B)  All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned deterg ents and disinfectants.
  (C)  The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensatio n and to prevent fungus 
formation and cracking.
  (D)  If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be shielded with covers prevent 
entering insects. 
  (E)  Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ  ow of air from outside and to ﬂ  ow 
exhaust air out. 
   
 (3) Ensure that air conditioners operate at adequate temperatu res when adequate ventilation 
is provided in the premises or air conditioned, and all air con ditioning systems shall be 
designed to prevent air from returning. 
    
 (4) For the employees on the premises;
  (A)  If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate  sanitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the foo d preparation, food 
production or ingredients storage area.
  (B)  Rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square met ers of space is available for 
each employee to sleep. 

<!-- page 105 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
105A
  (C)  Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provid ed for both females and 
males. 
   
 (5) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed s o that customers can order food 
with adequate space with physical distancing when required. 
   
 (6) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers. 
   
 (7) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of suﬃ   cient capacity shall be available to 
be utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply failure.
 (8) Internal drains and waste discharged from the premises sha ll be directed to a septic tank or 
a soakage pit and if that soakage pit or septic tank is in a so urce of water, it shall be at a 
distance more than 15.25 meters away. 
   
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not 
complied with. 
   
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.  
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the 
license applies. 
   
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.   
 
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situatio n declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authorit y area or in any case where 
an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such 
terms. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all terms made by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic 
is declared applicable under the regulations made under the Qua rantine and Prevention of 
Disease Ordinance. 
Issuing a license
Fees for a license
Inspection fees
Validity period
Conditions 
relevant 
to a license

<!-- page 106 -->

106A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they visit 
the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of  an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises 
in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the  eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed 
to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment uni t according to the approved 
procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall  be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectant and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensu re that all of them are 
being so. 
   
 (7) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily, 
and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning proce ss boards mentioning on that 
regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers. 
   
 (8) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain wate r and shall be cleaned with 
disinfectants twice daily. 
   
 (9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the 
road or outside area. 
   
 (10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there  is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
 (12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shal l be maintained in accordance with 
the following requirements. 
  (A)   All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shall be  made of a non-absorbent 
material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and sha ll be made of stainless 
material.
  (B)  All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to be  easily cleaned.
  (C)  Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials 
and shall have lids.
  (D)  All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitable c ondition to be 
used. 
   

<!-- page 107 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
107A
 (13) If food is to be distributed outside the premises during production, there shall be a speciﬁ c 
designated place for it.
   
 (14) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not 
harm the taste of the food. 
   
 (15) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar. 
   
 (16) Premises shall have water storage facilities and the rele vant containers shall be 
stainless. 
   
 (17) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be t horoughly washed, cleaned and 
used. 
   
 (18) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous  containers free from 
contamination. 
   
 (19) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water. 
   
 (20) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that t hey can be distinguished from any 
other pipeline. 
   
 (21) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on 
the premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons 
shall be employed to regulate it. 
   
 (22) Meat and ﬁ  sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigera tor on the premises 
and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsiu s until used without 
contamination. 
   
 (23) If an order has been issued that all persons should wear masks when socializing when 
an epidemic situation has been declared in the authority area u nder the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it or due to the risk of an 
epidemic in the authority area, any person not wearing a face m ask shall not be allowed to 
enter the premises for transactions. 
   
 (24) Everyone involved in food production shall use hats when involved in production 
activities. 
   
 (25) Food for sale on the premises shall not be kept in such a  way as to cause contamination, and 
all activities such as serving food, assembling for takeaway, etc., shall be carried out under 
a speciﬁ c procedure using appropriate gloves. 
   
 (26) All persons involved in serving, usage or assembling food  on the premises;
  (A)  Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or ﬁ  ngers 

<!-- page 108 -->

108A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  (B)  Under no circumstances shall money be used while working.
  (C)  Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favorab le  use for food.
  (D)   A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
  (E)   The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall alw ays be kept out of contact 
with any food. 
  (F)  All utensils used for food serving shall be kept thoroughly c lean and in separate 
containers.
  (G)  Employees shall work to use, assemble food in such a way that  their activity, usage 
does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way.
  (H)   What is taken for food wrapping shall not be a source of foo d contamination in any 
way. 
   
 (27) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it 
or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in  the authority area as per 
the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, usage, 
serving, or assembling food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with 
the directives made by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the 
Chairman as per their instructions in addition to any other provisions of this By-Law. 
   
 (28) (A)  Any work related to food production on the premises shall not be open to a public 
road or public space or shall not be done in a space where air ﬂ ows easily from such a 
public road or open space for the general public, and food prod uction activities shall 
take place in an enclosed space within the premises.
  (B)   Chimneys and absorbent fans shall be installed so that hot air and steam generated in 
the closed space for food production can ﬂ ow easily.
  (C)  Noise generated from any approved activity in food produ ction shall not be a 
disturbance in any way to the public or consumers. 
 
 (29) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels use d for cleaning shall be of 
clean condition. 
   
 (30) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants. 
   
 (31) All cooked food that can be easily spoiled among the cook ed food on the premises shall be 
kept at a temperature not exceeding four degrees Celsius or els e below 60 degrees Celsius 
except in the following cases. Occasions where it is not, shall be as follows. 
   

<!-- page 109 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
109A
  (A)   In cases where the entire collection is not exposed or displ ayed for sale for more than 
two hours or
  (B)  When preparation and serving are done in an approximate time period. 
   
 (32) Pastries, patties, savories, pizza and similar food which  include cooked meat or ﬁ sh which 
are consumed in the condition where there are normally sold on the premises shall be kept 
in containers with covers. 
   
 (33) Milk for use on the premises shall be kept in a refrigera tor at a temperature not exceeding 
seven degrees Celsius. 
   
 (34) Pesticide materials kept on the premises shall be kept in  a locked container at a speciﬁ c place 
on the premises. 
   
 (35) The area for employee facilities in the premises shall be  with adequate sanitary facilities and 
shall be spacious and latrines for both males and females shall be maintained in accordance 
with sanitary standards. 
   
 (36) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a 
way that they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use 
contamination of food. 
   
 (37) Cleaning activities on the premises shall be carried out on a regular schedule subject to the 
following: 
  (A)  A speciﬁ  c task assignment shall be maintained to adequately clean all sections of the 
institution, and to prioritize the cleaning and application of disinfectants in the speciﬁ c 
areas described in this by-law.
  (B)  It shall be the work of the license holder to make sure that the work under (A) above 
is carried out precisely.
  (C)  Relevant cleaning activities shall be done to prevent dust du ring preparation and 
assembling of food in the premises.
  (D)  All utensils used in food preparation shall be maintained so that parts of cooked food 
do not remain in any way.
  (E)  The water used for cleaning, detergents and disinfectants sha ll be washed away so that 
it does not remain on the containers in any way.
  (F)  The ceiling, walls, etc., of the premises shall be maintained so that no insects 
remain.  
   
 (38) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the pre mises in any way. 
   
 (39) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and 
shall be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescrib ed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer 

<!-- page 110 -->

110A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
of Health to check that they are in proper health condition. Re levant records shall also be 
maintained so that they can be inspected at any time within the  premises. Also the health 
check-ups on them shall be both clinical and epidemiological.
 
 (40) A health monitoring system shall be set up regarding the employees working on the premises 
and a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (41) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the written rules 
applicable to it. 
   
 (42) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public 
Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act in accordance 
with the instructions given by him. 
   
 (43) Prior to commencing work on the premises, all persons wor king on the premises shall not 
engage in cooking and assembling food without adequate sanitation after using the toilet and 
after contact with dirt, and everyone who engaged in work so shall wear a clean and pocket-
free apron. 
   
 (44) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean th eir hands frequently using 
disinfectants. 
   
 (45) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises. 
   
 (46) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they are wearing 
on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be dispose d to closed containers that 
are kept on the premises speciﬁ  cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed 
in accordance with the waste management program and instruction s implemented by the 
Council without mixing with other wastes. 
   
 (47) Every person involved in usage of food on the premises sh all maintain maximum hygiene 
during handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, mas ks, shoes and appropriate 
hygienic clothing. 
   
 (48) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease 
or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds,  skin infections or any other 
infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   
 (49) Every person involved in usage of food on the premises sh all not engage in activities such 
as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose,  which can cause food 
contamination. 
   
 (50) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the premises. 
   
 (51) If an employee serving on the premises contracted an infe ctious, transmittable or skin disease, 
the license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all 
persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him. 

<!-- page 111 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
111A
 (52) The license holder shall take every step to maintain the premises in such a way not to 
happen or not to do any activity in any way that could cause food contamination during food 
production. 
   
 (53) The license holder shall have provided all information re garding the employees working on 
the premises to the Chairman. 
   
12. (1) It shall also be lawful for the Chairman to grade a pre mises relevant to this By-law according 
to the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into account the quality 
when fulﬁ lling the conditions under this by-law. 
   
 (2) Where the Chairman has graded under this section, the grad e of the premises for the year 
relevant to the license and a certiﬁ  cate issued by the Chairman shall be displayed on the 
premises as visible to the public. 
   
13.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
14.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of a n epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter int o a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement wi th the Chairman, and the 
Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
15.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises 
shall be maintained in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
16.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this By-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
17. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this By-law  violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to t he license holder informing a 
speciﬁ c time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to  further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall 
be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the 
ﬁ rst notice. 
   
18.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect 
being complied with the notice within the period of time or add itional period given under 
Section 17 above. 
   
19.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this By-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court 
Grading the 
premises
On-site inspection 
and obtaining 
samples
Power to enter the 
premises
Cancellation of 
the license
Penalty

<!-- page 112 -->

112A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
for that oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Section 153 of Urban Council Ordinance, 
Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 153(2) of the said Ordin ance. Further, after being 
found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, if the violation continues even after the notice has bee n 
given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Section 153 of Urban Counc il Ordinance, read with the 
Sub-Section 153(2) of the said Ordinance for each day of such violation.   
   
20.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  “Council” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council,
  “License holder” means an institution, person or an individua l who has obtained a license 
under this By-law;
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council at 
that time,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food, 
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by 
chemicals or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and 
suitability of food at all stages in the food chain,
  "Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health 
eﬀ ects,
  "Food" means the things produced and kept for sale in the ins titution for the human 
consumption as food or drinks and the separate things used to prepare food.
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work, 
  "Basic Law" means the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255. 
      
21.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 113 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
113A
Schedule
Application to obtain a license to maintain a Food Production Place for the Year...........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Name of the business : -
06. Start year: -
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
11. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number    Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
12. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… f or the place where the 
business mentioned above is conducted.
Date:-………………………. ………………………….
     Signature of the applicant 
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Secretary

<!-- page 114 -->

114A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promp tly for the issuance of a license in 
respect of the application mentioned in the back.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
     Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.  
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the rel evant place as per above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health

<!-- page 115 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
115A
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING HOTELS
1.  This By-law is enacted to regulate, supervise, inspect and control the operation of hotels 
within the authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Council.
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-Law Relating to Hotels of th e Peliyagoda Urban 
Council. 
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Peliyagoda Urban C ouncil (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall maintain a hotel (hereinafter referred to as the premises in some 
places) except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law.
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule published in this By-law. 
6.  Submission of an application under the above section 5 can be made by fulﬁ  lling the 
requirements and submitting an application to the Chairman by r egistered post, handing 
over in hand or by e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7.  Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall n ot be issued a license by the 
Chairman unless the following conditions are met herein. 
 (1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constr uctions duly made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing 
and Urban Development Ordinance and;
  (A)  The material used in all constructions shall not emit to xic substances and shall not 
emit toxic gases, and all constructions shall be made up of sur faces where organisms 
cannot be easily retained.
  (B)  The internal layout shall be designed with adequate spac e to enable the service to be 
performed without interruption. 
  (C)  Shall be designed with a protective layout to prevent en try of contamination substances 
into food raw material and cooked food.
  (D)  Shall be designed to check the hygienic conditions of th e internal foods of the premises
  (E)  Things disposed under the internal processing activities  of the premises shall be 
arranged with references that will not ﬂ ow back in any way. 
 (2) In the food processing area of the premises, 
 
Short title
Applying for a 
License
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 116 -->

116A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  (A)  Floor and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and non-absorbent materials.
  (B)  All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned deterg ents and disinfectants.
  (C)  The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensatio n and to prevent fungus 
formation and cracking.
  (D)  If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be shielded with covers 
prevent entering insects. 
  (E)  Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ  ow of air from outside and to ﬂ  ow 
exhaust air out. 
 (3) For the employees on the premises;
  (A)  If working as residents, rooms with at least 4 square me ters of space per person shall 
be provided with adequate space outside the relevant section for customer service.
  (B)  Toilet facilities shall be provided with adequate sanita tion facilities and shall be 
separated as males and females.
  (C)  The toilets and bathrooms provided shall be of permanent  construction and shall be 
well-constructed and built outside the premises for the customers.
 (4) Premises shall have ﬁ  re safety certiﬁ cates as applicable and ﬁ  re safety facilities shall be 
provided in the premises as speciﬁ ed.
 (5) All buildings on the premises shall be constructed to allo w access to persons with disabilities 
and special needs.
 (6) Waste generated in the premises shall be disposed of in ac cordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Urban Council and if the license holder himself 
disposes of the waste in the premises, the method followed shal l be a method approved by 
the Public Health Inspector.
 (7) When entering the premises, a speciﬁ  c procedure shall be maintained to verify the identity 
of the entrants and to record it.
 (8) Adequate parking space shall be maintained in or near the premises for visitors to the 
premises.
 (9) Boards shall be ﬁ  xed so that customers can know about the facilities and servic es provided 
on the premises, and if there is a registered business name or a corporate name registered 
with the Sri Lanka Tourism Authority, the relevant registration number shall be prominently 
displayed.
 (10) The interior design of the premises shall be designed in a way that is more customer friendly 
and pleasing, and the constructions and ﬁ xtures made shall not obstruct to the safety of the 
customer in any way.

<!-- page 117 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
117A
 (11) Staﬀ   employed or to be employed to serve customers on the premises shall be persons trained 
by reputed institutions to provide a professional service. 
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this 
By-law, the Chairman; 
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with.
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not 
complied with. 
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the 
license applies.
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
 (1) If the license holder is not the manager of the institutio n, the identity information requested 
by the Chairman regarding the manager shall be provided, and it  shall be provided so 
whenever changed.
 (2) Loudspeakers used for festive occasions, parties or other activities on the premises shall 
be maintained in accordance with environmental regulations and terms so as not to disturb 
others by playing musical instruments.
 (3) Adequate parking facilities shall be maintained so that no  vehicles come to the premises are 
parked on public access. 
 (4) Name, address, identity card number and contact numbers re lated to all persons comes to 
stay, and if there are information to be maintained speciﬁ ed from time to time by the Director 
of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the authority area or the Chairman 
regarding the persons anticipating services under the health reasons in the authority area all 
such information shall be documented and maintained.
 (5) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situatio n declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authorit y area or in any case where 
an epidemic has been declared applicable under the regulations made under Quarantine 
and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, the premises shall be mai ntained subject to all such 
terms.
Acting according 
to an application
Conditions 
applicable to 
a license

<!-- page 118 -->

118A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (6) Room for accommodation, all spaces for accommodators use, latrines and bathrooms shall 
be disinfected before being used by another person after being used by one person and 
latrines and bathrooms shall be disinfected daily even while customers are present.
 (7) Whenever there enough facts to suspect that there is a ris k of an epidemic in the authority 
area, the body temperature of everyone who comes to stay on the premises shall be measured 
before entering the premises to check whether the body temperat ure is within the speciﬁ c 
range by a person who is speciﬁ cally assigned for that purpose and everyone's hands and feet 
shall be cleaned with disinfectants before entering the premises. 
 (8) All reusable items such as pillowcases, bed sheets, blanke ts, towels etc., which kept in each 
room for the use of the customers shall not be used for another  customer without washing 
and cleaning.
 (9) By no means shall not allow more than one adult in a singl e room, more than two adults in 
a double room, more than three adults in a triple room, or exce eding the maximum number 
of persons when four square meters per person is considered as the minimum space when 
the room can be accommodated by a group, and those over the age  of ﬁ ve years shall be 
considered as adults for the purpose in this subsection.
 (10) Beds inside a room shall be maintained taking into accoun t the extent speciﬁ ed in subsection 
(9) above.
 (11) Under no circumstances shall anyone be permitted to lodge  with a child except by a parent 
or legal guardian.
 (12) No person shall be allowed to sleep in an open area excep t the rooms on the 
premises. 
 (13) No person shall be allowed to stay on the premises if the y do not agree to verify their identity 
or are unable to verify their identity, and the information regarding all persons staying shall 
be a statement under their signature.
 (14) When it is not an air-conditioned room, all rooms shall b e well ventilated and allowed to be 
used after leaving the doors and windows open for some time.
 (15) When a regulation under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance comes into 
force in respect of any epidemic situation in the authority are a, facilities shall be provided 
the use the rooms in accordance with all the provisions of that regulation.
 (16) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situatio n declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authorit y area or in any case where 
an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine a nd Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such 
terms.

<!-- page 119 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
119A
 (17) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accorda nce with all guidelines made by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where a disease is 
declared applicable under the orders made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease 
Ordinance.
 (18) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the autho rity area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they visit 
the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
 (19) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk o f an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises 
in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
 (20) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and th e eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed 
to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment uni t according to the approved 
procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
 (21) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shal l be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectant and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensu re that all of them are 
being so.
 (22) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily, 
and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning proce ss boards mentioning on that 
regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers.
 (23) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain wat er and shall be cleaned with 
disinfectants twice daily.
 (24) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed  in any way to a public drain of the 
road or outside area.
 (25) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there  is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
 (26) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so.
 (27) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shal l be maintained in accordance with 
the following requirements. 
  (A)   All equipment and utensils used in food preparation sha ll be made of a non-absorbent 
material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and sha ll be made of stainless 
material.
  (B)  All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to be easily cleaned.
  (C)  Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of meta l or non-leaking materials 
and shall have lids.

<!-- page 120 -->

120A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  (D)  All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suita ble condition to be used.
 (28) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not 
harm the taste of the food.
 (29) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar.
 (30) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be t horoughly washed, cleaned and 
used. 
 (31) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous  containers free from contamination.
 (32) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water.
 (33) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that t hey can be distinguished from any 
other pipeline.
 (34) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on 
the premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons 
shall be employed to regulate it.
 (35) Meat and ﬁ  sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigera tor on the premises 
and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsiu s until used without 
contamination.
 (36) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling f ood on the premises;
   (A)  Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands o r ﬁ ngers 
  (B)  Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a fa vorable  use for food. 
  (C)  A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
  (D)  The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall  always be kept out of contact 
with any food. 
  (E)  All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean a nd in separate containers.
  (F)  Employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve food in such a way that their 
activity, usage does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any 
way.
 (37) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it 
or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in  the authority area as per the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, handling, 
serving, or assembling food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with 

<!-- page 121 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
121A
the directives made by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the 
Chairman as per their instructions in addition to any other provisions of this By-law. 
 (38) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels use d for cleaning shall be of 
clean condition.
 (39) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants.
 (40) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with  disinfectant shall be provided in 
the processing area of the premises and in the food consumption  areas of the premises and 
adequate lighting shall be maintained in the premises.
 (41) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a 
way that they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use 
contamination of food.
 (42) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premi ses in any way.
 (43) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and 
shall be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescrib ed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health to check that they are in proper health condition. Re levant records shall also be 
maintained so that they can be inspected at any time within the  premises. Also the health 
check-ups on them shall be both clinical and epidemiological.
 (44) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need.
 (45) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the written rules 
applicable to it.
 (46) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public 
Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act in accordance 
with the instructions given by him.
 (47) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises.
 (48) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they are wearing 
on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be dispose d to closed containers that 
are kept on the premises speciﬁ  cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed 
in accordance with the waste management program and instruction s implemented by the 
Council without mixing with other wastes.
 (49) Every person who handle food on the premises shall mainta in maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate hygienic 
clothing.

<!-- page 122 -->

122A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (50) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease 
or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds,  skin infections or any other 
infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.
 (51) Every person involved in handling of food on the event ro oms of the premises shall not 
engage in activities such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneez ing, or touching the nose, 
which can cause food contamination.
 (52) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises.
 (53) In the event of any person visits the event rooms of the premises for consumption of food 
or employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious, transmittable or skin disease, 
the license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all 
persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him.
 (54) When the premises are subjected to the quarantine process , the event rooms of the premises 
shall not be used for any festive occasions until a certiﬁ cate has been issued by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector stating that the quarantine period is over and 
the premises have been completely disinfected.
 (55) Health care measures that are implemented on the event ro oms of the premises shall be 
prominently displayed on the premises in such a way that everyo ne who handles and 
consumes food in the premises can learn about the relevant inst ructions and shall acted 
according to them.
 (56) The license holder shall have provided all information re garding the employees working on 
the premises to the Chairman. 
12.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of a n epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter int o a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement wi th the Chairman, and the 
Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
13.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises 
shall be maintained in accordance with all the terms of that Order.
14.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this By-law and obtain the required samples. 
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to t he license holder informing a 
speciﬁ c time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
Cancellation of 
the license
Power to enter
the premises.

<!-- page 123 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
123A
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to 
be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject 
to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
16.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect 
being complied with the notice within the period of time or add itional period given under 
Section 15 above.
17.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court 
for that oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council 
Ordinance, Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized 
by him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred t o in the aforesaid Subsection 
153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 for each day of such violation.
18.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  “Council” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council,
  “License holder” means an institution, person or an individua l who has obtained a license 
under this by-law,
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council at 
that time,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food, 
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by 
chemicals or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and 
suitability of food at all stages in the food chain,
  "Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health 
eﬀ ects,
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions

<!-- page 124 -->

124A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  "Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to the customer during preparing, 
processing, selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work, 
  "Basic Law" means the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255.
19.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.  
Schedule
Application to obtain a license to operate a hotel for the year...........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address of the place of business: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
  (Copies should be attached)
I, certify that the above information is true and correct.
Date:-………………………. ………………………….
 Signature of the applicant  
    
   
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 125 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
125A
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Revenue Inspector
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promp tly for the issuance of a license in 
respect of the application mentioned in the back.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.  
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the rel evant place as per above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health

<!-- page 126 -->

126A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING VEGETABLES AND FRUITS SELLERS
1.  This By-law is enacted to regulate, supervise, inspect and control the vegetables and fruits 
selling places in the authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Council.
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law Regarding Vegetables and  Fruits Selling Places in the 
Peliyagoda Urban Council.
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Peliyagoda. Urban Council (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall maintain a vegetables and fruits selling center or a storage center 
for such sale (hereinafter referred to as the premises) except under a license obtained from 
the Chairman under this By-law.
5.  All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the Schedule published in this By-law. 
6.  Submission of an application under the above Section can be  made by fulﬁ  lling the 
requirements and submitting an application to the Chairman by r egistered post, handing 
over in hand or by e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7.  Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall n ot be issued a license by the 
Chairman unless the following conditions are met herein. 
 (1) Permanent constructions related to the premises shall be c onstructions in accordance with 
the provisions mentioned under the Urban Development Authority Act or the Housing and 
Urban Development Ordinance.
 (2) The material used for construction shall be made of materi als that do not retain living 
organisms, and permanent constructions shall be made on the premises to prevent the entry 
and retention of pests and fumes.
 (3) The premises shall be designed to be easily cleaned and in  a way so that water does not 
retain.
 (4) The interior of the premises shall be designed so that the  nature of the fruits and vegetables 
can be inspected always.
 (5) The building, walls of the premises shall be made of washa ble materials with waterprooﬁ ng 
so as not to absorb water.
 (6) Every construction on the premises shall be free of holes cause for the retention of insects.
Short title
Applying for a 
License
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 127 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
127A
 (7) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept s hall be easily disinfected and made 
of non-absorbent materials.
 (8) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept s hall be inactive to disinfectants and 
cleaning agents.  
 (9) If vegetables or fruits are stored or stored and kept on t he premises; refrigeration facilities 
shall be in place to maintain the speciﬁ ed temperature.
 (10) When keeping vegetables and fruits for sale, refrigeratio n facilities shall be available to 
maintain it at low temperatures.
 (11) There shall be a ceiling or concrete surface above the pl ace where vegetables and fruits are 
stored or kept.
 (12) The premises shall be air conditioned or windows and other openings shall be set so that air 
can be ﬂ ow well.
 (13) The interior parts of the premises shall be constructed t o be easily cleaned.
 (14) The water required for the premises shall be supplied fro m within or outside the premises 
and shall be equipped with storage facilities for continuous water supply. 
 (15) The premises shall have a separate place for washing vege tables and fruits and shall be 
constructed so that water does not retain in the premises.
 (16) Internal drains of the premises shall be directed to a so akage pit or a septic tank and if there 
is a source of water in the premises of the respective soakage pit or septic tank, it shall be set 
at a distance of at least 15.25 meters away.
 (17) For the employees on the premises;
  (i) If staying as residents, there shall be rooms with adequa te sanitary facilities for 
accommodation.
  (ii) Latrine facilities shall be provided as appropriate.
 (18) Platforms for keeping or storing vegetables and fruits in the premises shall be set at a height 
of at least 28 cm above the ground. 
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman; 
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with.
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not 
complied with. 
Issuing a license

<!-- page 128 -->

128A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the 
license applies.
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka 
or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic 
has been declared applicable under the regulations made under Quarantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all terms made by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic 
is declared applicable under the regulations made under the Qua rantine and Prevention of 
Disease Ordinance.
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, shall not related to the transactions unless they 
visit the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of  an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Servi ces or the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be pr operly implemented in the 
premises in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so.
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the  eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed 
to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment uni t according to the approved 
procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination.
 (6) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the 
road or outside area.
 (7) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
 (8) Light bulbs ﬁ  xed above the vegetables or fruits for sale or stored shall be of a safe condition 
and all of them shall be covered.
 (9) Disposal of waste collected in the premises shall be done in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Urban Council and in acco rdance with the 
applicable written laws in this regard.
Fees for a license
Inspection fees
Validity period
Conditions 
applicable to 
a license

<!-- page 129 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
129A
 (10) If the waste collected at the premises is managed by the license holder himself, it shall be 
in accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Public Health Inspector or the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health.
 (11) When using weighing equipment for the sale of vegetables and fruits in the premises, it shall 
be done in accordance with the prescribed standards.
 (12) If prepare fruits to make it easier to eat or to prepare fruit juices on the premises, everyone 
who does so shall not engage in any activity such as fruit preparation or fruit juice preparation 
without the use of gloves and hats. 
 (13) When preparing fruit for consumption, shall always use dr inking water and ice made from 
that water.
 (14) Preparation of fruits for consumption shall not be done in advance except in the presence of 
consumers.
 (15) Vegetables and fruits shall be kept for sale so that they  do not mix with rotten vegetables and 
fruits.
 (16) The premises shall be kept in a clean condition at all times and no activities shall be carried 
out on the premises in such a manner as to cause any contaminat ion of vegetables or fruits 
in the premises for any reason.
 (17) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it 
or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in  the authority area as per the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons working on the premises shall 
maintain the premises in accordance with the directives made by  the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per t heir instructions in addition 
to any other provisions of this By-law.
 (18) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a 
way that they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use 
contamination of vegetables and fruits.
 (19) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the pre mises in any way. 
 (20) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
 (21) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean th eir hands frequently using 
disinfectants.
 (22) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event 
of an epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes th e mask or gloves they are 
wearing on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed containers 
that are kept on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed 
in accordance with the waste management program and instruction s implemented by the 
Council without mixing with other wastes.

<!-- page 130 -->

130A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (23) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease 
or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds,  skin infections or any other 
infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.
 (24) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic, he shall not be allowed to the premises in any event.
 (25) Employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious , transmittable or skin disease, 
the license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all 
persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him.
12.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
13.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of a n epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter int o a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement wi th the Chairman, and the 
Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
14. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to t he license holder informing a 
speciﬁ c time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to 
a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
15.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect 
being complied with the notice within the period of time or add itional period given under 
Section 14 above.
16.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court 
for that oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council 
Ordinance, Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized 
by him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred t o in the aforesaid Subsection 
153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 for each day of such violation. 
17.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  “Council” means Peliyagoda Urban Council,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Peliyagoda Urban 
Council at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
On-site inspection 
and obtaining 
samples
Penalty
Cancellation of 
the license

<!-- page 131 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
131A
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council,
  “License holder” means an institution, person or an individua l who has obtained a license 
under this by-law,
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council at 
that time,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food, 
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by 
chemicals or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work, 
  "Basic Law" means the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255.
18.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this by-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.  
Schedule
Application to obtain a License to Maintain a Vegetables/Fruits Trade Stall for the Year ..................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Name of the business : -
06. Address of the place of business: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number    Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
  (Copies should be attached)
Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 132 -->

132A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… for the place where the trade 
mentioned above is conducted.
Date:-………………………. ………………………….
 Signature of the applicant
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Secretary.
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :- …………………… …………………………….
 Revenue Inspector.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promp tly for the issuance of a license in 
respect of the application mentioned in the back.
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Secretary.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.  
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Public Health Inspector.  
Secretary,

<!-- page 133 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
133A
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date:-...............................  ........................ .........
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health.
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
 
1.  This By-law is enacted to recommend disposal strategies to prevent the disposal of health 
safety equipment used by the pubic to the environment being haz ardous to public health in 
an epidemic situation within the authority area of the Peliyagoda Urban Council.
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law to control the disposal of waste hazardous to the public 
health of the Peliyagoda Urban Council.
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these By- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
Ordinance.
4.  In the event of the use of masks, gloves or any other prote ctive wear (hereinafter referred 
to as equipment in some places) by the people of the authority area in accordance with 
the terms and conditions laid down by the Chairman under the in structions of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health to control an epidemic situation that has been declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an 
epidemic has been declared under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or 
any of the regulations made under it, the disposal of such items after use shall be subject to 
the provisions herein.
5.  All public or private premises shall have separate closed g arbage containers for the disposal 
of gloves, masks or any other protective wear used by the publi c for health safety purposes 
or at any instance as referred to in Section 4 above relating to the authority area.
6.  No gloves, masks and other such items shall be disposed by any person other than a 
speciﬁ cally separated garbage container mentioned under Section 5 ab ove, subject to the 
circumstances referred to in under Section 4 of this by-law within the authority area.
7.  It is the responsibility and duty of the authority of the p remises to maintain adequate garbage 
disposal containers for the disposal of gloves, masks and other such items used in all public 
premises in the event of a situation referred to in under Section 4 of this By-law.
Short title
Applicability
That speciﬁ c 
garbage bins shall 
be maintained
Responsibility of 
the public 
authority

<!-- page 134 -->

134A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
8.  No person shall mix or dispose any waste other than the was te speciﬁ ed under this by-law to 
a garbage container maintained for the purpose of this by-law. 
9.  Disposal or dumping of waste collected under this by-law sh all be carried out only in 
accordance with the procedure recommended by the Chairman on th e instructions of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, and the waste management program implemented b y the Urban 
Council shall be publicized within the authority area.
10.  It is an oﬀ  ense for any person to act in violation of the provisions unde r Sections 6 and 8 of 
this by-law, and after being convicted by the Magistrate's Court, shall be subject to a penalty 
under Sub-Section 153 (2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapt er 255, read with the 
Section 153 of the said Ordinance.
11.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
  “Council” means the Peliyagoda Urban Council
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Urban Council at 
that time or perform the duties of that position,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medi cal Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the post o f Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council.
  "Authority Area" means the Peliyagoda  Urban Council area,
12.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
EOG 11-0187/ 1 
Prevention of 
mixing
Penalty
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 135 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 135A
WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Notiﬁ cation under Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15, of 1987, read with Section 2 of the 
Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12, of 1989
I, Roshan Goonetileke, the Governor of the Western Province, in terms of the powers vested in me under Section 123 of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15, of 1987, read with Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12, 
of 1989 do here by notify that my  approval has been given for the By-laws, described in the Schedule herein under, made 
by the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of the Sub Section 122(1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15, 0f 1987 read 
with Section 126 of the aforsaid Act. 
 Rඈඌඁൺඇ Gඈඈඇൾඍංඅൾ඄ൾ,
 RWP And BAR VSV USP PHD FIM (Sri Lanka) ndc psc,
 Marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force,
 The Governor,
 Western Province.
 
On 16th Day of November, 2022,
At Governors' Oﬃ  ce - Western Province,
Provincial Council Oﬃ  ce Complex,
Battaramulla.
SCHEDULES
BY-LAW OF REGULATING THE CONDUCT OF SHOWS ON THE ROADS AND 
STREETS OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
 1. This By-law is enacted to control, regulate and to make arrangements for consequent matters to the 
conduct of shows by gathering people in any road, street and related reserve in the area of authority 
of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
  
 2. This By-law is known as the By-law of regulating the Conduc t of Shows on the Roads and Streets 
of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section  126(VII)   
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
 
 4. No person shall conduct a show or engage in any such activi ty in such a way as to gather the public 
except with a prior written permission of the Chairman in any road, street and related reserve in the 
area of authority of the  Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha (herein after referred to as the authority area).
  
 5. Any person wishing to conduct a show or engage in any activ ity in such a way as to gather the public 
on a particular road, street, or related reserve in the authority area within a speciﬁ ed period of time, 
shall apply for the permission in advance by submitting an application to the Chairman.
  
 6. When someone has made a request to gather people to conduct  a show on a road, street or related 
reserve, or gather people to engage in any kind of such activity, the Chairman shall not grant permission 
to any person to do so without subjecting himself/herself to the recommendations and conditions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health if there is a recommendation and conditions to which such gathering 
is appropriate for the beneﬁ t of the prevailing public health in the area. 
Short name
Obtaining 
permission
Granting 
permission by the 
Chairman.

<!-- page 136 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 136A
 7. Whenever any epidemic situation has been declared by the Qu arantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the regulations made under it in relation to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka or 
whenever an epidemic is declared in the authority area no person shall engage in activities that gather 
the public on a road, street or related reserve in the authority area.
  
 8. This By-law stipulates that the applicant shall maintain th e relevant show subject to the following 
conditions:
 (1) That during the performance of the show, the relevant activities will be carried out in accordance 
with the health care strategies recommended to be maintained for the beneﬁ t of the public health 
of the area during the entire period,
 (2) That the show shall always be held only for random gatheri ngs and that the show shall not be 
advertised in advance,
 (3) That no fees shall be charged for the purpose of the show,
 (4) That at no time engage in the show that maintains a positi on that minimizes the visibility of 
the show,
 (5) That the performer shall keep adequate sealed garbage bins  at the venue, and if there is anything 
disposed by the people gathered they should be disposed to the garbage bins, and shall conduct 
the show by encouraging the audience to do so. 
  (6) That the garbage collected in garbage bins at the venue d uring the show will be disposed of by 
the performer at the end of the show in accordance with the active waste management program 
in the area.
 (7) That if loudspeakers or other visual display boards are to  be set up at the venue, prior approval 
shall be obtained in accordance with the applicable written law  and it shall be maintained so 
that it can be easily seen in more directions.
 (8) That the show will be held in such a manner that it will n ot cause any hindrance to traﬃ  c or 
pedestrian traﬃ  c.
 (9) That if there are any public health rules to be followed by the gathering under the permission 
given to hold the show or perform the show, the relevant show w ill be held or the show will 
be held in satisfaction that all those rules will be fulﬁ lled in that manner.
  
 9. When the Chairman permits to hold a show on a road, street or related reserve or any other such 
event the relevant permission under section 5 of this By-law shall be granted after been satisﬁ ed that 
it shall not disrupt with the traﬃ  c or public using the road, street or related reserve.
Conditions
That Traﬃ  c should 
not be disrupted.

<!-- page 137 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 137A
 10. In cases where a speciﬁ  c public place has been reserved by the Council for a gathering of the people 
or for purpose of a show, the Chairman shall not grant permissi on for any show on a road or in a 
related reserve except at that place.
 11. The fees to be charged for the issuance of a permit under this By-law shall be a fee decided and 
published by the Council by a resolution of motion from time to time.
  
 12. Acting under a permit obtained from the Chairman under this By-law shall be subject to the provisions 
of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it.
  
 13. It is lawful for the Chairman to cancel a permit issued un der this By-law at any time when the 
Chairman is satisﬁ ed that there are factors causing an epidemic in the authority  are, and upon such 
cancellation the amount charged for a permit shall be released to the applicant.
  
 14. It is an oﬀ  ense to hold a show in a road, street in the authority area wi thout a permit to be obtained 
under this By-law or to act in violation of the provisions of this By-law and after being convicted by 
a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable to a penalty under s ub-section 122 (4) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.  
  
 15. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  The "Council" means the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  The "Chairman" means the current Chairman of the Seethawaka P radeshiya Sabha or the person 
performs the duties of that position, 
  and 
  The "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of that position related to the 
division of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the relevant area.
 16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
––––––––––––––––––––––
BY LAWS RELATING TO PUBLIC LATRINES OF PRADESHIYA SABHA
 1. The objective of the enforcement of this by law is to regul ate the use and maintenance of Public 
Latrine System in this Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha authority area. 
   
 2. This By Law is cited as the By Law for regulating the use a nd maintenance of Public Latrines within 
the authority area of Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 126(IX), 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
 
 4. It shall be the responsibility of the Sabaha to maintain Pu blic Latrine facilities in the places where 
general public gather, within the authority area of Seethawaka  Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter refers 
as authority area).  
Fees
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency 
between texts
Short Title

<!-- page 138 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 138A
 5. All Public Latrine facilities within authority area of Prad eshiya Sabha shall be maintained with clean 
and tidy adequately under the sanitary requirement and shall be well maintained. 
   
 6. Separate facilities for men, women and for persons with dis abilities should be maintained in each 
public Latrine maintained by the Sabha.  
   
 7. All public Latrines within the authority area of Pradeshiya  Sabah shall be maintained in accordance 
with the conditions prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to be maintained for the beneﬁ t of 
the public health 
   
 8. Adequate water supply should be maintained permanently for all public Latrines and water storage 
facilities shall also be provided for this purpose.  
   
 9. All public Latrines shall be easily accessible to both men and women as well as persons with 
disabilities.  
   
 10. Each Latrine should have facilities such as hand washing w ith proper, permanent water connection 
in a designated area with a basin made of stainless steel and s hould always have facilities with the 
adequate sanitary wipers,  detergent and hand drying facilities also be provided. 
   
 11. Each public Latrine should have separate cloth racks in each compartment and should also be provided 
with space to keep the belongings 
   
 12. Adequate number of foot operated dust bins should be kept in each compartment of every public 
Latrine for the public use.   
   
 13. If there are any masks or gloves worn by the users of the public Latrine, the masks or gloves should 
be disposed in to the foot operated dust bins. This speciﬁ cally stated on the dust bins. 
   
 14. The surface of all the public Latrine should be made of ce ment or porcelain so that the water does 
not retain and slip easily and the ﬂ oor should be prepared so that water can drain easily.  
   
 15. (01) Instructions on speciﬁ c sanitary measures to be followed by the public Latrine users for protection 
of public health to be displayed in the public Latrine premises for easy understanding.  
  (02) All persons who use public Latrines shall act in accorda nce with the relevant instructions.  
 16. A latrine shall always be cleaned and be kept under sanita ry condition and germicide should be used 
when cleaning and shall be well maintained and staﬀ  should be deployed to ensure the cleanliness.     
 17. Adequate lighting should be provided in all public Latrine s. 
 18. If the Sabha decides to charge a fee for the services prov ided in public Latrines within the authority 
area, a notice shall be prepared and aﬃ  xed in all three languages clearly with regard to the available 
facilities and the fees charged. 
The Sabha should 
maintain public 
Latrine facilities
Charge a fee;

<!-- page 139 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 139A
 19. When using public Latrines, the accumulated waste should be disposed in accordance with the speciﬁ c 
procedure and the disposal of masks and gloves used should be c onsidered as medical waste and 
disposed accordingly. 
 20. The utensils used in public Latrines should be cleaned wit h water after every use and then keep them 
ready for the easy use of others. 
 21. If a public Latrine is maintained by a second party on beh alf of the Sabha, the provisions of this 
By-law shall applicable to all public Latrine so maintained by the second party. The compliance of 
provisions of this By-law shall be monitored regularly by the assigned employees, appointed for this 
purpose.
 22. In addition to the provisions of this By-law, the users of  public Latrine shall also abide by provisions 
of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, when prescribed or applied to any epidemic 
situation  
 23. It shall be lawful to restrict the use of any public Latri ne within the authority are for the beneﬁ t of 
public health for a speciﬁ ed period of time, to restrict its use, or to suspend it tempo rarily by the 
Chairman as prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.   
 24. Taking into the consideration of the factors that may caus e or spread of any epidemic disease within 
the authority area declared by the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, the Chairman 
shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the use of public Latrine is accordance with the instructions 
given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health prior to the use Latrine by the public.  
 25. Prior to the use of public Latrine in connection with the steps under section 23 above, the Chairman 
shall display the instructions in a manner that is easily visib le to the user of the public Latrine in 
accordance with instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.   
 26. All public Latrines should be cleaned with antiseptic according to a spec iﬁ c daily schedule in a 
manner that no odor is emitted, while such cleaning activities shall be recorded in a report kept in 
the premises. The Chairman shall implement an appropriate progr am to regulate the continuity of 
the clean-up operations.  
 27. No matter whatever stated in the above clauses of this By- law, there shall not be any impediment by 
any provision of this By-law to the implementation of the provisions of the Quarantine and Prevention 
of Disease Ordinance or any regulation obtained thereon.  
 28. If a Public Latrine is maintained on behalf of the Council  under the administration of a second party, 
the provisions of this By-law shall apply to all public Latrine s so maintained and shall always be 
deemed to have been applicable.  
 29. If a fee is charged for the use of a public Latrine, a rec eipt shall be issued to the user for the speciﬁ c 
amount so charged. 
Obtaining the 
assistance of a 
second party
Use of public 
Latrines during an 
epidemic situation

<!-- page 140 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 140A
 30. It is an oﬀ  ense for any person who act in violation of a provision of thi s By-law and after being 
convicted by an authorized court, the person shall be liable to  a penalty under Sub-section 122 (2) 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.  
 31. For the purpose of these By Laws, unless the context other wise requires;
  “Sabha” means the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha
  “Chairman” means Chairman of the Seethawaka. Pradeshiya Sabha  or the person executes the duties 
of the chairman. 
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person holding the post of the Medic al Oﬃ  cer of Health in 
the relevant area of the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
 32. If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhala, Tamil and Eng lish texts in this By-law, the Sinhala texts 
will prevail.
––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAWS  ON  THE  CONTROL  AND  MANAGEMENT  OF  PUBLIC  HEALTH  CARE 
FACILITIES
 1. This By-law is enacted for the control and management of pu blic health care facilities in the. 
Seethawaka  Pradeshiya Sabha area.  
 2. This By-law is cited the By-law on the control and manageme nt of public health care facilities in the 
Seethawaka.Pradeshiya Sabha Area.  
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 126(IX)   
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.  
 4. Public health care facilities implemented in the. Seethawak a. Pradeshiya Sabha area (hereinafter 
referred to as Authority area) shall be necessary to maintain it in an appropriate manner. The Chairman 
shall, in consultation with the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, take such action.
  
 5. The Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health and all Public Health Inspectors in the authority area shall be treated as 
oﬃ  cers of the Sabha for the purpose of controlling and managing the public health facilities operated 
by the Sabha.
 6. The Chairman may delegate any of the powers and functions c onferred on him under any written law 
in the control and management of public health facilities in the Authority area to the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health or the Public Health Inspectors subject to the provisions of the relevant written law.
  
 7.  The management of public health care facilities related to  the following services operated by 
the Sabha in the authority area shall be carried out under the supervision of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health.
 1. Waste management activities in the area
 2. Maternal and Child Health Clinics
 3. Public toilets and latrines
 4. Public Market Services
 5. Maintaining slaughterhouses  
 8. In the event of any outbreak of any epidemic aﬀ  ecting the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the Regulations made under it, or any other regulation applicable under that Ordinance, 
shall be maintained by the Sabha. All regulations regarding the maintenance of services shall be made 
by the Chairman in accordance with the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
Penalty
Discrepancy
 among the 
medium
Short Title
The Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health 
and the Public 
Health Inspectors 
shall be treated 
as oﬃ  cers of the 
Sabha
Delegate of 
powers
Under the 
supervision of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health
Making 
Regulations

<!-- page 141 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 141A
 9. A report prepared on the recommendations to be implemented for the next month in the proper 
maintenance of the public health facilities maintained by the S abha and a monthly report on the 
activities related to the management of the public health facilities relevant to the public health in the 
area with respect to the previous month shall be submitted by t he the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to 
the Sabha every month.
  
 10. The recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health shall be submitted to the Sabha in respect of 
every measure applicable to the control and management of the relevant health care facilities in the 
authority exercise of the Sabha within the authority area of the Public Health Authority conferred by 
the written law.
  
 11. Health protection to be enforced in the authority area in case of any contagious disease within the 
authority area or in case of a disease situation connected under the Quarantine or Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the orders made under it, steps shall be taken by  the Chairman in consultation with 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
  
 12. In a determination made under Article 11 above, it is the duty of the ordering person to duly provide 
such prescribed information to the prescribed persons within the prescribed time.
  
 13. Information to be collected in order to prevent the spread of an epidemic or any contagious disease 
within the authority area applicable to the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of 
diseases Ordinance. It is lawful for a Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to direct any person to provide data 
to himself or to an authorized authority.
  
 14. If a person who has obtained the relevant order in accorda nce with an order under Section 11 above, 
does not act in accordance with Section 12 above and after bein g convicted by a Magistrate Court 
under Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 shall be subjected to a penalty.
  
 15. It is the duty of the Chairman to maintain a proper arrangement under the Head Oﬃ  ce of the Sabha 
and all sub-oﬃ  ces for the execution of the functions prescribed and delegated under this By-law.
  
 16. Unless other meanings are required in relation to the term s of this By-law, this By-law;
  “Sabha” refers  the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha
  “Chairman” refers those who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha 
at present or perform the duties of that oﬃ  ce,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area.
  "Public Health Inspector" refers a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector attached to 
the oﬃ  ce of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha or Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health attached to the authority 
area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Person" refers to a person or in case of an organization, th e Managing Director or Manager of the 
organization or any person acting on behalf of that organization,
  
 17. If there are inconsistencies between the Sinhala, Tamil an d English texts in this By-law, the Sinhala 
text will prevail.
Monthly Report
Obtaining details
Penalty

<!-- page 142 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 142A
BY-LAW  ON  THE  TERMS  AND  CONDITIONS  FOR  MARKET  SUPERVISO RS  AND 
OTHER  EMPLOYEES
 1. This By-law is imposed to specify the relevant Terms and Co nditions for the proper performance of 
the duties of the Supervisors and Other Employees appointed for the market owned by Seethawaka. 
Pradeshiya Sabha
  
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law to specify the work of the market Supervisors and Other Employees 
of Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha
  
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 126(XII)   
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
  
 4. For every market belong to the . Seethawaka..Pradeshiya Sab ha, there should be a post in the name of 
the market supervisor and a suitable person should be appointed to the post. Appropriate appointments 
should be made by the authority
  
 5. The provisions of Section 32 of the Provincial Council Act,  No. 42 of 1987 as well as the provisions 
of Sub-section 19 (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 as appropriate, shall be applicable 
with regard to appointments to the post of Market Supervisor.
  
 6. In order to carry out the duties of the Market Supervisor i n a proper and appropriate manner, the 
necessary supporting posts shall be created by the Sabha and es tablished in accordance with the 
relevant procedures
  
 7. The Market Supervisor shall carry out the following functio ns either by himself or his associates 
within the Public Market Premises (hereinafter referred to as the Premises)  
 (1) Registration and maintenance of all traders in the premise s.
  
 (2) Placement of Traders by taking into account the zoning tha t operates within the premises.
  
 (3) If there is a permanent operation of the shops, it is nece ssary to keep a close eye on the conduct 
of the trade under the respective premises in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement.
  
 (4) To monitor the cleanliness of the latrines in the premises  and to ensure that the latrines are 
maintained in accordance with the By-laws regarding public latrines and to direct the staﬀ  in 
this regard
  
 (5) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the pr emises is disposed in accordance with 
the waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha
  
 (6) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the pr emises is disposed in accordance with 
the waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha
  
 (7) Sewage in the premises should be directed to the respectiv e pits or suction ditches so that water 
does not escape out of the drains
  
 (8) Taking all measures to maintain the provisions of the By-laws of the Pradeshiya Sabha regarding 
the public market and private market regarding the trade carried out in the premises
  
 (9) Carrying out the disinfection process in the public market  premises in a timely manner.
  
 (10) Ensuring that no alcohol, drug use or any other illegal a ctivities take place in the premises.
Short Title
Appointment
Supporting posts 
creation 
Functions of 
Market Supervisor

<!-- page 143 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 143A
 (11) Taking all necessary steps to maintain the premises as a public health friendly premises.
  
 (12) Prevent parking of vehicles other than in the parking lot  within the premises and direct the 
proper use of the entrances and exits.
  
 (13) Advice and guide the users on matters to be followed for the regular cleanliness of the premises 
and supervise accordingly.
  
 (14) Prevent begging, temporary accommodation and unauthorized  use of the premises.
  
 (15) Take appropriate measures to prevent the spread of animal s such as dogs and cats on the 
premises.
  
 (16) Taking action to collect the fees and rent due for the Pr adeshiya Sabha from the traders engage 
in trade in the premises.
  
 8. The Supervisor of the public market may delegate the task t o the assistants to carry out the work 
assigned to him under Article 6 of this By-law and he shall ensure that the work so assigned is carried 
out in a proper and appropriate manner.
  
 9. Whenever there is an outbreak of an epidemic in any part or  territory of Sri Lanka or when there is a 
suspicion of an outbreak in the authority area, It is the duty of the Market Supervisor to ensure that 
all steps are taken to implement the following or any other instruction given by the Chairman on the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health regarding the premises.  
 (1) Make sure that the water supply for hand washing placed in various places on the premises is 
safe and in constant use for the users of the premises.
  
 (2) Ensure that the conditions connected with the use of publi c latrines in the premises are properly 
observed and the relevant health instructions are followed.
  
 (3) The disinfection process on the premises should be carried out in accordance with the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector.
  
 (4) All activities in the premises are carried out in accordan ce with the instructions given to the 
users of the premises to maintain the social distance. 
  
 (5) Action shall be taken in accordance with the instructions to restrict the entry of vehicles into 
the premises.
  
 (6) That health advice to be followed in the premises shall be  displayed in the premises through 
advertisements and other advertising methods.
  
 (7) The disposal of the waste of used Masks, gloves, etc. in t he premises are to be considered as 
clinical waste and they are disposed without mixing with other waste. 
 (8) In the event of the Chairman suspending business activitie s in the premises for the sake of 
public health, no trade or public gathering shall not be taken place in the premises. 
  
 (9) Each stall in the premises has a speciﬁ c person appointed in connection with the cash transactions.
  
 (10) Any instruction given by the Chairman on the instructions  of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
the Public Health Inspector for the beneﬁ t of the public health shall be duly executed within 
the premises.
Follow the 
instruction during 
the outbreak of an 
epidemic

<!-- page 144 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 144A
 10. It is the responsibility of the Market Supervisor to carry  out the duties assigned to him and make 
other employees to carry out their duties assigned to them, properly by this By-law.
  
 11. The market supervisor shall maintain a records of the day- to-day activities of the employees in the 
premises; a daily notebook should also be maintained in the premises for visitors' notes for follow-up.
  
 12. It is the responsibility and duty of the Market Supervisor  to ensure that all activities are carried out in 
accordance with the written directives related to the public market and its activities by the Chairman 
or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, and that the instructions given after such supervision are properly 
implemented.
  
 13. The Supervisor of the market shall always act under the ge neral administration of the Chairman and 
Secretary of the Sabha.
  
 14. 1. Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By-law, this By-law;
 “Sabha” means Seethawaka  Pradesiya Sabha
 "Chairman" means Seethawaka the current Chairman of the Prades hiya Sabha or those who 
hold the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman, 
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
   Division relevant to the Pradeshiya Sabha area,“Public Healt h Inspector” means a person who
  holds the post of Public Health Inspector attached to the oﬃ   ce of the Pradeshiya Sabha or
  Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health working in the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  
 15. If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, Englis h and Tamil texts in this By-law, Sinhala 
text will prevail.
––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW  FOR  SETTING  STANDARDS  TO  BE  FOLLOWED  REGARDING  
SANITARY  REQUIREMENTS  FOR  PRIV ATE  MARKETS  OR  FAIRS
 1. This By-law is enacted to set standards to be followed rega rding the sanitary requirements for private 
markets or fairs within the authority area of the  Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
  
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law on the setting of sanita ry standards for fairs of the Seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
  
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(xii) of the said Act.
  
 4. The extent of the land (hereinafter referred to as the prem ises) on which each market, including a 
public market and a private market (hereinafter referred to as market), which is located within the 
jurisdiction of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the authority area) shall 
be speciﬁ ed, and it shall be a premises maintained and prepared under a  name board for the same 
purpose.
Keeping Records 
Supervision
Act under 
the general 
administration of 
the Chairman and 
Secretary of the 
Sabha
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistencies 
between texts
Short title

<!-- page 145 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 145A
 5. All markets located within the authority area shall be main tained in accordance with the following 
standards to maintain proper sanitary conditions.
  
 (1) The premises shall be zoned mainly for the exchange of goo ds brought for sale in vehicles as 
meat and ﬁ sh, vegetables and fruits and other goods and for the washing of fruits and vegetables.
  
 (2) Latrines in the premises shall be adequate for both men an d women outside the zones referred 
to in Sub-Section (1) above and shall be directed to a septic t ank or soakage pit by a speciﬁ c 
drain so that the water used therein shall not ﬂ ow into any zone of the premises.
  
 (3) Zones within the premises shall be numbered and displayed in a map at the entrance to the 
premises in order for the easy attention of the visitors to the premises.
  
 (4) Permanent constructions within the premises shall be const ructions built in accordance with 
the provisions of the written law to that eﬀ ect.
  
 (5) Every construction on the premises shall be well construct ed and anything or any material used 
for that purpose shall not release anything which contaminates food.
  
 (6) Necessary separations shall be made to prevent cross-conta mination in the premises.
  
 (7) Arrangements shall be made to prevent the spread of animal s such as dogs and cats in the 
premises, and all construction surfaces shall be prepared as inanimate surfaces.
  
 (8) A parking zone shall be established to prevent contaminati on of things brought in, things kept 
in the premises for sale from any substance, liquid or gas rele ases or leaks from any vehicle 
entering the premises.
  
 (9) The people deployed to unload, move the goods or the peopl e work for such purposes shall be 
pre-identiﬁ ed for the purpose and the information for their identities sh all be maintained by 
the market keeper documenting and updating the information.
  
 (10) The market keeper shall document the identities of those who come to the premises for trade 
and those who come for their support and maintain the information updated.
  
 (11) The ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be prepared so that water does not s tagnate and the internal 
drains shall be arranged so that water can ﬂ ow easily.
  
 (12) Septic tank or soakage pit shall be adequately constructe d in the premises to allow wastewater 
to ﬂ ow, and any soakage pit or soakage pit in the premises shall be located at a distance of at 
least 15 m, if there is a water source without an external opening.
  
 (13) All stands set up to keep goods for trade within the prem ises shall have a washable surface and 
each surface shall be disinfected and cleaned prior to use.
  
 (14) The interior layout of the premises shall be arranged wit h a reasonable distance to walk easily. 
  
 (15) Goods and materials sold on the premises shall be kept ou t of direct contact with the ground 
and shall be placed on a stand or platform at a certain height above the ground.
  
 (16) Closed garbage bins shall be set up in each zone suﬃ   cient for the temporary disposal of waste 
collected in the premises, and the waste shall be disposed only to the appropriate garbage bin 
where it should be disposed of according to its nature.
That a market 
shall comply with 
sanitary standards.

<!-- page 146 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 146A
 (17) Traders engaged in trading in the premises or customers s hall not spit on the premises.
  
 (18) No cooking or lighting shall be done on the premises and if cooked food is taken out and sold, 
all such food shall be stored in airtight containers and all fo od shall be sold with gloves and 
kitchen tongs.
  
 (19) When disposing the gloves, masks used on the premises; Sp eciﬁ c closed garbage bins shall be 
adequately maintained for their disposal; relevant disposals shall be done accordingly.
  
 (20) Within the area where the ﬁ sh is sold on the premises;
 (A) Stands for the sale of ﬁ  sh shall be made of permanent materials and shall be cleaned and 
used before use with soap or disinfectant.
 (B) The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit through properly constructed 
closed drains.
 (C) If ﬁ  sh is stored, it should be refrigerated and stored at a temper ature of two degrees 
Celsius or less.
 (D) Light bulbs and ﬁ  ttings hanging above the ﬁ sh for sale shall be secured and covered.
 (E) No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above th e place where the ﬁ sh is kept 
for sale and in contact with the ﬁ sh and no contamination of the ﬁ sh shall occur in any 
way.
 (F) Sewage collected during the sale of ﬁ  sh shall be temporarily collected in closed garbage 
bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises and disposed in accordance with 
a waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in accordance 
with the instructions of the Public Health Inspector. 
 (G) Refrigerated ﬁ  sh kept for sale shall not be re-refrigerated under ambient temperature.
 (H) What is used for packaging in the sale of ﬁ  sh shall not be a printed paper or a packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the ﬁ sh.
 (I) All ﬁ  shmongers shall not be infected with any infectious disease or skin disease.
 (J) All ﬁ  shmongers shall wear appropriate clean clothes while selling ﬁ sh.
 (K) Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall b e disinfected and cleaned.
  
 (21) Within the area where the meat is sold on the premises;
 (A) Stands for the sale of meat shall be made of permanent mat erials and shall be cleaned 
and used before use with soap or disinfectant.
 (B) The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soaka ge pit through properly prepared 
closed drains.
 (C) If meat is stored, it should be refrigerated and meat shou ld be stored at a temperature of 
two degrees Celsius or less.

<!-- page 147 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 147A
 (D) Light bulbs and ﬁ  ttings hanging above the meat for sale shall be secured and covered.
 (E) No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above th e place where the meat is kept 
for sale and in contact with the meat and the contamination of the meat shall not occur 
in any way.
 (F) Sewage collected during the sale of meat shall be temporar ily collected in closed garbage 
bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises and disposed in accordance with 
the waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabh a or as per the 
instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
 (G) Refrigerated meat kept for sale shall not be re-refrigerat ed under ambient temperature.
 (H) What is used for packaging in the sale of meat shall not b e printed paper or packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the meat.
 (I) All meat sellers shall not be infected with any infectious  disease or skin disease.
 (J) All engaged in the sale of meat shall wear appropriate clean clothes while selling meat.
 (K) Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall b e disinfected and cleaned.
  
 (22) Within the area where vegetables and fruits are sold on t he premises;
 (A) Sales locations shall be well ventilated and well lighted artiﬁ cially or naturally.
 (B) No washing of fruits and vegetables shall be done on the s ame place; vegetables and 
fruits washed and cleaned in a separate place on the premises f or this purpose shall be 
kept for sale.
 (C) No rotten vegetables or fruits shall be mixed with good qu ality vegetables and fruits.
 (D) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease, infected or a person suﬀ ering from a skin 
disease shall not engage in selling activities.
 (E) Rotten fruits and vegetables shall be disposed only in spe ciﬁ cally designated containers.
 (F) No person engaged in sale shall eat food, smoke, spit, che w betel and other items, cough, 
sneeze or touch the nose in such a manner as to contaminate vegetables or fruits and the 
hygiene of vegetables and fruits shall be maintained.
 (G) The water used to prevent drying of vegetables and fruits shall be drinking water and the 
use of any prohibited chemical substance in fruits and vegetables shall not be allowed.
  
 (23) When the Chairman has made an order in this regard on the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health that any epidemic situation has arisen in an authority area or when any of the provisions 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or any of the regulations 
made therein shall come into force, the following actions shall be properly implemented;
 (A) That facilities shall be provided for cleaning hands at sp eciﬁ c places in the premises and 
action will be taken accordingly.

<!-- page 148 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 148A
 (B) That the prevailing conditions and regulations regarding t he use of public toilets in the 
premises shall be properly implemented.
 (C) That the disinfection process to be carried out in the pre mises on the instructions of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector shall be carried out in accordance 
with the recommended Schedule.
 (D) That all operations on the premises shall be carried out i n accordance with the instructions 
given to the users of the premises to protect social distancing.
 (E) That action will be taken accordingly when the entry of ve hicles into the premises is 
restricted.
 (F) That notices have been circulated in the premises regardin g the health practices to be 
followed from time to time and that action will be taken accordingly.
 (O) That the masks and gloves used in the premises are dispose d without mixing with other 
garbage.
  
 6. In order to maintain a market in accordance with the standa rds set forth in Section 5 of this By-law, 
all actions shall be taken by a keeper of the common market in the case of a common market and by 
the license holder in the case of a private market.
  
 7. The Chairman or a Public Health Inspector or an authorized oﬃ  cer shall inspect whether the premises 
are maintained in accordance with the standards set forth in this By-law.
  
 8. When any market is maintained in violation of or  not compl ies with the standards set out in 
Section 5 above; a written notice issued by the Chairman may specify a time period to be compliance 
with the standards.
  
 9. Failure to comply with a notice issued under Section 8 above shall be an oﬀ ense and shall be punishable 
under Sub-Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, after being convicted by a 
Magistrate Court.
  
 10. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  "Council" means . Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" means to the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka.Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position.
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means any oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food or food chain; 
  "Hygiene" means all the conditions and practices required to ensure the safety and suitability of food 
at all stages of a food chain.
  
11.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Inspecting power.
Provide a speciﬁ c 
time period by a 
notice.
Penalty.
Deﬁ nition.
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 149 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 149A
BY-LAW ON PRIV ATE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
 1. This By-law is enacted to regulate, supervise and inspect m atters relating to public health in places 
where private educational institutions are maintained within th e authority area of the Seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law on Private Educational I nstitutions of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
   
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
   
 4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawaka Pradesh iya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain any building as a private educational institution except under a license 
obtained from the Chairman under this By-law. 
   
 5. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the Schedule under this By-law. 
   
 6. Submission of an application under the above Section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
 7. It is lawful for the Council to decide and charge a ﬁ xed inspection fee for site inspections to be carried 
out prior to the issuance of a license in relation to the application made under this By-law.  
  
 8. Anyone applying for a license under this By-law shall have fulﬁ lled the following conditions applicable 
to a private educational institution herein (hereinafter referred to as premises). 
   
 (1) All permanent constructions pertaining to the premises sha ll be constructions in accordance 
with a plan approved under the Urban Development Authority Act,  No. 41 of 1978 or under 
the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) All constructions on the premises shall be compliant with the objectives for an educational 
purpose. 
   
 (3) All relevant constructions shall be with a proper ﬁ  nishing and arranged in a manner that is 
more favorable and does not adversely aﬀ  ect the educational activities carried out on the 
premises. 
   
 (4) The internal structure of the premises, the layout shall b e arranged with adequate space. 
   
 (5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a way as to maintain proper cleanliness. 
   
 (6) The premises shall be properly ventilated and lighted, or artiﬁ cially fulﬁ lled with the necessary 
requirements. 
   
 (7) All outputs on the premises shall be permanently made. 
   
 (8) There shall be separate entrances and exits to the premise s and there shall be emergency exits 
to exit the premises in case of an emergency. 
Short title.
Applying for a 
License.
Inspection fees.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 150 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 150A
 (9) Lecture halls shall be set up in the premises with platfor ms and they shall be well ventilated 
or air conditioned. 
   
 (10) Each lecture hall shall have separate entrances and exits  and shall include an additional exit 
door for emergency exits when the hall is for more than one hundred students.
 (11) Loudspeaker facilities shall be provided when there is a lecture hall for more than ﬁ  fty
children. 
 (12) In the interior layout of a lecture hall, the seats shall  be arranged so that they can be seated 
at a distance from each other and each seat shall have a table that is at least 0.75 m long and 
wide. 
   
 (13) If the tables and seats in a lecture hall are arranged in such a way that they can be seated together, 
the space shall be kept so that the dimensions and distances mentioned in Section 12 above can 
be maintained and when seating for a group, seats and tables shall be set up to accommodate 
no more than six students. 
   
 (14) Between seats and tables; There shall be enough space bet ween each set of seat and table, and 
the space provided shall be in such way that it is easy to move. 
   
 (15) Seats and tables shall be ﬁ  rmly ﬁ xed to the ﬂ oor and all shall be well made and easy to use. 
   
 (16) The interior walls of the premises shall be arranged in s uch a way that they do not retain 
organisms and every wall shall be properly ﬁ nished. 
   
 (17) The premises shall have a ﬁ  re protection program in place and a ﬁ re safety certiﬁ cate shall be 
obtained as applicable. 
   
 (18) All halls and other buildings constructed within the prem ises and Section without constructions 
shall be free from unsafe barriers and shall be in a risk-free condition. 
   
 (19) Drains in the premises shall be constructed in such a way  that it easily drained without retaining 
wastewater and shall be directed to a septic tank or a soakage pit or a central treatment 
unit. 
   
 (20) Septic tanks and soakage pits installed in the premises s hall be installed in accordance with the 
approved plan and if there is a water source, it shall be set at a distance of at least 15 m away 
and it shall not be exposed to air. 
   
 (21) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the prem ises and all latrines;
 (A) Shall be provided separately for males and females.
 (B) Shall equipped with water storage facilities to maintain a n adequate supply of water on 
a regular basis.
 (C) Each latrine shall have a permanent well-ﬁ  xed stainless water basin with a good water 
supply for hand washing at a speciﬁ ed space allocated.

<!-- page 151 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 151A
 9. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this By-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 8 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 8 are not 
complied with. 
   
 10. The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By- law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
 11. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license applies. 
   
 12. All persons receives a license under this By-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations 
made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) The premises shall be well ventilated; if not, all lecture  halls shall be air-conditioned and the 
relevant air conditioning machines shall be in good working con dition in order to maintain a 
proper temperature. 
   
 (3) The sound emitted by the loudspeakers maintained in the le cture halls; shall be adequately 
controlled and maintained in accordance with the national environmental regulations. 
   
 (4) If someone with an infectious disease condition arrives, t here shall be a speciﬁ c place on each 
premises to temporarily quarantine them.
 
 (5) Suﬃ   cient identity information including the name, addresses, and  telephone numbers of all 
those studying on the premises shall be maintained, and informa tion about the daily visitors 
shall be maintained in an identiﬁ able manner. 
   
 (6) All latrines in the premises shall be regularly disinfecte d and maintained.
 
 (7) All drains in the premises shall be properly cleaned and m aintained on the ground surface 
preventing water and dust retention. 
   
 (8) If hand hygiene is required when entering the premises, wa ter basins with adequate water 
supply shall be installed and cleaning agents and sanitizers shall be provided. 
   
 (9) Seats shall be arranged in such a way that the lecturer is  easily visible to the students and the 
students are easily visible to the lecturer. 
   
 (10) A system shall be set up to record information about thos e who visit the premises on each 
day when the educational activities takes place, shall maintain a separate identity information 
regarding all those who work on the premises. 
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
Validity period of a 
license.
Information 
related to a 
license.

<!-- page 152 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 152A
 (11) About employees working on the premises,
 (A) If employed as a resident, there shall be adequate sanitar y facilities and accommodation 
facilities.
 (B) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided and maintain ed separately for males and 
females. 
   
 (12) First aid facilities shall be provided on the premises so  that they can be used for emergencies; 
The staﬀ  shall be trained for that. 
   
 (13) Noise generated during lectures on the premises shall be controlled in accordance with the 
regulations of the Central Environmental Authority. 
   
 (14) All electrical wiring connections in the premises shall b e properly maintained; A report from 
an electrical engineer or a qualiﬁ ed professional shall be obtained at least once in every two 
years. 
   
 (15) A person suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infecte d or such a vector 
or an infected person shall not be employed on the premises and  the license holder shall be 
satisﬁ ed that such person is not employed. 
   
 (16) Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed in sealed garbage bins speciﬁ cally maintained 
for that purpose; and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises; all of them shall 
only be disposed into foot-operated containers which shall be maintained on the premises for 
only that purpose. 
   
 (17) Sewage collected on the premises shall be disposed in acc ordance with a program implemented 
by the Pradeshiya Sabha or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (18) It is lawful for the Chairman to carry out the following actions on the premises or any of them 
or any other regulations for the beneﬁ t of public health on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health when required to act in the event of an outbreak of an e pidemic under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or a regulation made under it or when there is an epidemic 
situation in the authority area or when the Chairman has decided, on the advice of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health, that there are suﬃ  cient grounds to suspect the spread of an epidemic.
 (A) That the work on the premises carried out under the licences shall be temporarily suspended 
for a period of time.
 (B) That an emergency response plan shall be in place on the p remises.
 (C) That mass gatherings within the premises shall be stopped.
 (D) That the distribution of lecture leaﬂ  ets by hand shall be stopped.
 (E) That a speciﬁ  ed distance shall be maintained within the premises.
 (F) That to make sure that the body temperature is below the n ormal range, when entering 
the premises.
 (G) That the air conditioner ﬁ  lters shall be cleaned once a week.
 

<!-- page 153 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 153A
 (H) That shall be entered to a statement of agreement with the  Chairman related to the 
maintenance of the premises in accordance with the set of instructions.
 (I) That food shall not be sold or distributed on the premises .
 (J) That respiratory etiquettes shall be followed when coughin g and sneezing.
 
 (K) That there shall be a speciﬁ  c place for food consumption and that food shall be consumed 
separately at that place.
 (L) That health guidelines to be maintained on the premises sh all be exhibited in an easily 
identiﬁ able manner.
 (M) That entry into the premises and exit from the premises sh all be done in groups.
 
 (N) That those who work on the premises shall undergo regular medical check-ups as 
prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health at regular intervals. 
   
 13. If the sale of processed food is carried out on the premis es, the premises shall be maintained in 
accordance with the relevant written laws and none of those shall be considered to have been suppressed 
subject to a license obtained under this By-law. 
   
 14. Each premises shall display this By-law and the license ob tained thereon or a copy thereof. 
 15. It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publ ic Health Inspector or any other authorized 
oﬃ  cer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable time to inspect the 
premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions of this By-law.
   
 16. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this By-law violates the provisions of this By-law 
or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c 
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law. 
   
  (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the li cense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
 17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder fails to be comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 above. 
   
 18. It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this By-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this By-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in that sub-section for each day of such violation.  
   
 19. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  “Council” means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
That the license 
shall be displayed.
Power to enter a 
premises.
Cancellation of the 
license.
Penalty.

<!-- page 154 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 154A
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
   
 20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
SCHEDULE
Application to obtain a Trade License for the Year....................... 
 01. Name of the applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Phone number: -
 05. Start year: -
 06. Address of the private educational institution: - 
 07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 08. Assessment Number: -
 09. If the private educational institution is registered, its reference number: -  
 10. Information of the manager or agent of the private educati onal institution,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number Mobile: - Fixed: -
  11. Approved building plan number and date: -
 12. Number and Date of the Certiﬁ  cate of Conformity: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year…………
Date: -    
 ……………………………….,
 Signature of the applicant,
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: - .................................,
 Secretary,
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date: - .................................,
 Revenue Inspector.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Deﬁ nitions.
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 155 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 155A
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
Date: - .................................,
 Secretary.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with By-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
Date: - .................................,
  Public Health Inspector.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date: - .................................,
  Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health.
––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW REGARDING PROVISIONS RELATING TO DISINFECTION
OF PUBLIC PLACES
 1. This By-law is enacted to make provisions for the relevant incidental matters, including the disinfection 
of public places and places of worship within the authority area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law regarding the provisions  relating to disinfection of public places 
in the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
 4. Under the following circumstances the Chairman shall disinf ect or arrange to do so any place where 
the public gathers or gathered for matters of public importance  or for a speciﬁ c purpose including 
places of worship within the authority area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha (herein after referred 
to as authority area):
  
 (1) In cases where there is a need to disinfect places of wors hip or other places where public 
gathers or gathered located within the authority area in accordance with the provisions of the 
Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it.
  
 (2) When there is a spread of an epidemic in any part or territory of Sri Lanka or in the authority 
area or when the Chairman has decided on the advice of the Medi cal Oﬃ  cer of Health that 
there are suﬃ  cient grounds to suspect the spread of any epidemic in the authority area.
  
 (3) When a person dies due to an undiagnosed disease in a auth ority area and the places where the 
deceased person travelled has been identiﬁ ed.
  
 (4) When the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector has decided that the premises 
should be disinfected when a large gathering of the public is held or is being held at any place 
of worship and when such a religious ceremony is over.
  
 (5) When a premises is maintained for a period of time without  any activity and is used to gather 
people back to the premises.
Short title.
Circumstances 
where disinfection 
shall be done

<!-- page 156 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 156A
 (6) When it has been reported that a patient who has been infe cted or suspected of being infectious, 
or who has been in contact with such a patient has visited or a cted in a place where public is 
gathered. 
  
 (7) When the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health has advised that the areas identiﬁ  ed as common public 
places shall be disinfected, when an outbreak of an epidemic is reported in their authority area 
or in any part of Sri Lanka.
  
 (8) When the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health has instructed that the relevant premises shall be disinfected 
for the beneﬁ t of the public health, when it matters the public to gather at any place of worship 
or public place. 
  
 (9) When any public places are subject to disinfection in acco rdance with a plan implemented for 
the purpose of promoting and protecting public health in the authority area.
  
 (10) Whenever it is decided by the Chairman to disinfect any p ublic premises as per the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health that it should be done for the sake of a more a ccurate health 
care existence.
  
 5. If any public premises in the authority area is used by any  person for public gathering, when there is 
a possibility of an epidemic spreading in the area or when there is a suspicion that it may be so, it is 
lawful for the Chairman to make any of the following orders to the person or the organizer engaged 
as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
  
 (1) That the premises shall be disinfected before gathering th e people in the relevant premises.
  
 (2) That the premises shall be disinfected after the people ha ve gathered and dispersed in the 
relevant premises.
  
 (3) That the premises shall be disinfected before and after us e.
  
 6. It is the responsibility and duty of the person who gets th e order to act in accordance with the orders 
made by the Chairman under the above section.
  
 7. The Chairman may act for the disinfection of religious plac es and public places within the authority 
area for the beneﬁ t of the public in accordance with a speciﬁ c schedule prepared on the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
  
 8. It is an oﬀ  ense if a person does not act in accordance with the orders ma de under Section 5 above 
by the Chairman and shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987, after being convicted by a Magistrate Court.
  
 9. If disregards the orders made by the Chairman under Section  5, it is lawful for the Chairman to 
disinfect the premises relevant to that order and charge the defaulter the cost spent incurred.
  
 10. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law,
  "Council" means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or performs the duties of that position,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means those who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health Division 
relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
Ordering a party 
to disinfect.
Penalty.
Deﬁ nition.

<!-- page 157 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 157A
  "Public Health Inspector" means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Person" means an individual or managing director or manager of the organization or any person 
acting on behalf of that organization when referring to an organization by the name of an individual.
  
 11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW REGARDING RECEPTION HALLS
 1. This By-law is enacted to protect the public health under the activities of the reception halls maintained 
in the authority area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha and re gulate, supervise and control such 
places.  
   
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law Regarding Reception Hall s in the Seethawaka. Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act. 
   
 4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawaka Pradesh iya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a reception hall except under a license obtained from the Chairman 
under this By-law. 
   
 5. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this By-law. 
   
 6. Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
 7. Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein: 
   
 (1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constr uctions duly made in accordance with 
the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 o f 1978 or the Housing and 
Urban Development Ordinance and;
 
  (A) If the authority area is subject to zoning, the relevant constructions shall be located 
accordingly.
  
  (B) The Certiﬁ  cate of Conformity shall be obtained prior to construction use.  
   
 (2) All constructions shall be well made of permanent construc tion materials. 
   
 (3) The reception halls shall have the necessary reservations,  divisions and placements to prevent 
cross-contamination, and the interior shall be designed to maintain adequate distance. 
   
 (4) Adequate space shall be maintained inside the halls so tha t operations can be carried out without 
interruption. 
Inconsistency 
between texts.
Short title.
Legal Power.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 158 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 158A
 (5) Premises including buildings shall be designed to prevent the entry and retention of pests and 
contamination substances. 
   
  (6) The premises shall be designed to facilitate easy and pro per cleaning and to facilitate proper  
  supervision of food hygiene. 
   
  (7) The stages in the premises shall be of proper standard an d the halls shall be designed to absorb
   internal sound. 
   
  (8) The interior of the hall shall be air-conditioned or have  windows that can be opened to not less
  than one-ﬁ  fteenth of the area of the hall leaving space for adequate ventilation. 
   
  (9) Adequate lighting in halls shall be arranged in a natural  or artiﬁ cial way. 
   
 (10)  Doors shall have a smooth and non-absorbent surface and shall be ﬁ xed in such a way that
  automatically closed when appropriate. 
   
  (11) Fire protection equipment shall be ﬁ  xed in all halls in the premises. 
   
  (12) There shall be no fungus growth or leakage from any of t he ﬁ xtures or structures installed in
  the premises. 
   
 (13)  Window openings in the premises shall be easy to clean a nd shall be ﬁ tted with nets to prevent
  insects from entering. 
   
 (14)  There shall be separate latrine facilities for customers and employees, which shall be maintained
  separately for both males and females. 
   
 (15) Buildings on the premises shall be made with access facil ities for the disabled. 
   
 (16) Closed drains with slopes preventing sedimentation shall be directed to a septic tank, soakage 
pit or central treatment unit constructed in accordance with an approved plan, and an approved 
method shall be followed through a water trap or plan to preven t contamination between the 
premises and the ﬁ nal disposal. 
   
 (17) The waste collected in the premises shall be handed over in accordance with a waste management 
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or a speciﬁ c arrangement shall be made for the 
disposal of waste in accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
or Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (18) Drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use in the premises and shall be stored in 
containers under speciﬁ ed standards. 
   
 (19) Facilities made with stainless steel or other suitable ma terial for hand washing shall be supplied 
on the premises.  
   
 (20) In the cooking and processing area on the premises, 
 (A) Floor and walls shall be made of washable and non-slip and  non-absorbent materials.
 (B) All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned detergen ts and disinfectants.

<!-- page 159 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 159A
 (C) The c eiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.
 (D) If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be  shielded with covers prevent 
entering insects.
 (E) Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ ow of air from outside and to ﬂ ow exhaust 
air out. 
   
 (21) In relation to the place where food is served to the cust omers on the premises;
 (A) The space for serving food shall be prepared with more spa ce so that food can be obtained 
with adequate distance. 
 (B) When food is consumed in an open space, it shall be design ed to get well ventilated and 
prevent birds and other animals from entering. 
   
 (22) Adequate parking lots shall be provided for visitors to t he premises. 
   
 (23) For the employees on the premises, 
   
 (A) If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate sanitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the food processing and storage 
area. 
 (B) Rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square meter s of space is available for each 
employee to sleep. 
 (C) Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provided .  
   
 (24) The premises shall be equipped with automatic generators of suﬃ  cient capacity to be utilized 
in case of emergency power failure. 
   
 8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this By-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not 
complied with. 
   
 9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.    
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.  
   
 10. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license applies. 
   
 11. All persons receives a license under this By-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
 Inspection fees.
Validity period.
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license.

<!-- page 160 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 160A
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations 
made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
  (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accorda nce with all guidelines made by the
   Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health in any case where a disease is declared
   applicable under the orders made under the Quarantine and Pr evention of Disease Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons who
  come to the premises expecting services, services shall not b e provided unless they visit the 
premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of  an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Servi ces or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises 
in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the  eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with disinfectant 
and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are being so. 
   
 (7) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it do es not slip easily, 
and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning proce ss boards mentioning on that 
regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers. 
   
 (8) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with disinfectants 
twice daily. 
   
 (9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the 
road or outside area. 
   
 (10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
 (12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shal l be maintained in accordance with 
the following requirements:    
 (A) All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a non-absorbent 
material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and sha ll be made of stainless 
material.   
 (B) All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to  be easily cleaned.   
 (C) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials and 
shall have lids.   
 (D) All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitabl e condition to be used. 
Sale of meat in the
premises
General
Conditions
Maintaining the
public market
in an epidemic

<!-- page 161 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 161A
 (13) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not 
harm the taste of the food. 
   
 (14) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar. 
   
 (15) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be t horoughly washed, cleaned and used. 
   
 (16) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous  containers free from contamination. 
   
 (17) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water. 
   
 (18) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that t hey can be distinguished from any 
other pipeline. 
   
 (19) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on the 
premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons shall 
be employed to regulate it. 
   
 (20) Meat and ﬁ  sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigera tor on the premises 
and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsiu s until used without 
contamination. 
   
 (21) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling f ood on the premises;
 (A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or ﬁ  ngers 
 (B) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favo rable  use for food. 
 (C) A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
 (D) The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall a lways be kept out of contact 
with any food. 
 (E) All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean and  in separate containers.
 (F) Employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve food in  such a way that their activity, 
usage does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way. 
   
 (22) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has 
declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, handling, se rving, or 
assembling food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with the directives 
made by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per 
their instructions in addition to any other provisions of this By-law.  
   
 (23) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels used for cleaning shall be of clean 
condition. 
   
 (24) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premise s shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants. 

<!-- page 162 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 162A
 (25) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with  disinfectant shall be provided in 
the processing area of the premises and in the food consumption  areas of the premises and 
adequate lighting shall be maintained in the premises. 
   
 (26) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not cause contamination 
of food. 
   
 (27) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premi ses in any way. 
   
 (28) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and shall 
be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
to check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant records shall also be maintained so 
that they can be inspected at any time within the premises. Also the health check-ups on them 
shall be both clinical and epidemiological. 
   
 (29) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (30) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the w ritten rules applicable to 
it. 
   
 (31) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public 
Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be inform ed and shall act in accordance 
with the instructions given by him. 
   
 (32) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises. 
   
 (33) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they are wearing on 
the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed containers that are kept 
on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in ac cordance 
with the waste management program and instructions implemented by the Council without 
mixing with other wastes. 
   
 (34) Every person who handle food on the premises shall mainta in maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, sho es and appropriate hygienic 
clothing. 
   
 (35) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease 
or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds,  skin infections or any other 
infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.  
   
 (36) Every person involved in handling of food on the premises  where the reception halls are located 
shall not engage in activities such as smoking, spitting, cough ing, sneezing, or touching the 
nose, which can cause food contamination. 
   
 (37) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises. 
   
 (38) In the event of any person visits the premises for consum ption of food or employee serving 
on the premises of a reception hall contracted an infectious, transmittable or skin disease, the 

<!-- page 163 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 163A
license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all persons 
on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him.
 
 (39) When the premises where the reception halls are located are subjected to the quarantine process, 
the premises shall not be used for any festive occasions until a certiﬁ cate has been issued by 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector stating that the quarantine period 
is over and the premises have been completely disinfected. 
   
 (40) Health care measures that are implemented on the premises  shall be prominently displayed 
on the premises in such a way that everyone who handles and consumes food in the reception 
halls can learn about the relevant instructions and shall acted according to them. 
   
 (41) The license holder shall have provided all information re garding the employees working on 
the premises to the Chairman. 
   
 12. T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
 13. In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
 14. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the 
premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
 15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this By-law violates the provisions of this By-law 
or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c 
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law. 
   
  (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the li cense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
 16. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 15 above. 
Cancellation of the license
   
 17. It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this By-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this By-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 122(2) of the Pr adeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Subsection 122(2) of the P radeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 
for each day of such violation.    
Power to enter the 
premises
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty

<!-- page 164 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 164A
 18. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law,
  “Council” means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
   “License holder” means an institution, person or an individu al who has obtained a license under this 
By-law,
           “Authorized Oﬃ  cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at that 
time,
          "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by chemicals or 
physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability of 
food at all stages in the food chain,
  "Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects,
  "Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to the customer during preparing, 
processing, selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work,
  "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
   
 20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
SCHEDULE
Application to obtain a Trade License for the Year....................... 
 01. Name of the applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Phone number: -
 05. Start year: -
 06. Address of the Private Educational Institution: - 
 07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 08. Assessment Number: -
 09. If the business name registration has been obtainted, its reference number: -  
Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 165 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 165A
 10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number Mobile: - Fixed: -
 
 11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant  to the business: -
  (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Signature of the Applicant
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
    
Date:- ……………………………….
  Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
    
Date:- ……………………………….
  Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
    
Date:- ……………………………….
 Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with By-law and other rules and regulati ons. I report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
    
Date:- ……………………………….
  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
    
Date:- ……………………………….
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 166 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 166A
BY-LAW RELATING TO BEAUTY CENTERS
 1. This By-law is enacted to control and regulate the maintena nce of beauty centers maintained within 
the authority area of the Seethawaka  Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law Relating To  Beauty Centers of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha. 
Short title
   
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(xxiii) of the said Act.
   
 4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawaka Pradesh iya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a beauty center (hereinafter referred to as the premises) except under 
a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law. 
   
 5. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this By-law. 
   
 6. Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
 7. Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
 (1) Constructions relating to the premises shall be constructi ons duly made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance.  
 (2) The premises shall be maintained under its own business na me.  
   
 (3) The License holder shall conﬁ  rm that a person with a Certiﬁ  cate in Beauty Certiﬁ cate or a 
similar vocational competency certiﬁ cate conducted by a training institute registered with the 
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission is employed on the premises. 
   
 (4) Constructions on the premises shall be made of permanent c onstruction materials and shall be 
of good and hygienic condition. 
   
 (5) Adequate space shall be provided in proportion to the numb er of clients simultaneously serving 
not less than 2.25 square meters of ﬂ oor area separately for each client. 
   
 (6) For any client who arrive therein in anticipation of servi ces shall provide with adequate space 
to be seated conveniently with at least 1:5 meters distance from the place where another client 
is being served. 
   
 (7) All walls of the premises shall be not less than 2.7 meter s in height and shall be painted. 
   
 (8) All sections of the premises shall be ﬁ  nished with a ceiling or concrete plate and shall be at 
least 2.7 meters above the ground level. 
   
 (9) The premises shall be air-conditioned or have windows that  can be opened suﬃ  ciently to allow 
air to ﬂ ow in from the outside. 
Short title
Legal Power
Applying for a 
License
Conditions related 
to a license

<!-- page 167 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 167A
 (10) The premises shall be well ﬁ  nished so that the relevant light is well received.  
   
 (11) Drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use o f the premises and shall be stored in 
containers which meet the standards. 
   
 (12) Facilities shall be provided for bathing when required af ter providing the services of the client. 
   
 (13) A separate part of the premises shall be maintained for w ashing the equipment and containers 
used for the clients.
 
 (14) There shall be adequate latrine facilities for the employ ees and customers of the institution and 
it shall be constructed of permanent materials in a proper and hygienic manner. 
   
 (15) Speciﬁ  c equipment shall be ﬁ xed for washing the hands, head or face of the customers and 
they shall be cleaned and disinfected after use by one person before being used by another and 
that equipment shall be made of stainless materials. 
   
 (16) Adequate measures shall be taken not ﬂ  ow the wastewater discharged from the premises 
into public drains or open ground and shall be properly directed to a septic tank or a soakage 
pit.  
   
 (17) A septic tank or soakage pit relevant to the premises sha ll not be open to the outside and if 
there is a water source it shall be constructed at a distance of at least 15 meters away.   
   
 (18) If there is a disposal of chemical wastewater from the premises, the relevant disposal shall be 
made in accordance with a procedure recommended by the Central Environmental Authority 
or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (19) There shall be a separate area on the premises with adequ ate facilities for the customers waiting 
for services. 
   
 (20) The electrical circuit in the premises shall be checked b y a professional and certiﬁ ed to be safe 
from leakage. 
   
 8. Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a license made under this By-law, the Chairman; 
Issuing a license
   
  (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the pre mises if it is in accordance with the 
conditions mentioned in Section 7. 
   
  (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it is not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7. 
   
 9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license. 
   
 10. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions of 
this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license is related. 
   
 11. All persons received a license under this By-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
Issuing a license
Fees for a license

<!-- page 168 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 168A
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations 
made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all orders issued by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of an outbreak of an 
epidemic being declared under the regulations made under the Qu arantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of a risk of an epidemic in the authority area, service facilities 
shall not be provided on the premises unless all persons seeking services come to the premises 
in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) Health safety instructions shall be implemented properly o n the premises as directed by the 
Director General of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman on 
their instructions, in case of any outbreak or risk of any epidemic in the authority area to protect 
from it, and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) An information register shall be maintained relevant to al l those who come to the premises 
expecting services. 
   
 (6) Every time engages in haircuts, hair colorings, beards and  hair removal of the customers, 
everyone who engages in such activities shall wear face masks a nd gloves as much as 
possible. 
   
 (7) To manage and maintain equipment and utensils on the premi ses, the license holder shall ensure 
that there are, 
 (A) Adequate facilities for the sterilization of used equipmen t and utensils; 
 (B) an accepted sterilization method and a adequate number of equipment used for sterilization; 
 (C) Soap or soapy liquid with hand washing facilities when pro viding services to the service 
providers inside; 
 (D) Adequate number of white or other light colored towels and  upper body covers and hats 
for the use of the clients; 
 (E) When electric power tools are used, secure and permanent p ower plugs, to one customer's 
desk; 
 (F) Sterilization methods after each use of equipment. 
   
 (8) Every employee working on the premises shall have a traini ng in the use of safety equipment, 
service delivery and other activities related to the premises. 
   
 (9) Facilities shall be available to provide hot and cold wate r as required for the services relevant 
to the premises. 
   
 (10) Everything used for cosmetic purposes shall be standardiz ed things approved and registered. 
   
 (11) Service providers shall be well trained to provide ﬁ  rst aid functions as required under the 
services provided on the premises. 
   
 (12) The windows shall be kept open for good circulation of air in the premises, and if air conditioned, 
all air conditioners shall be kept constant at the prescribed temperature. 

<!-- page 169 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 169A
 (13) The ﬁ  lters of the air conditioners in the premises shall be regularly cleaned and maintained. 
   
 (14) The relevant service shall be provided only after the han ds have been cleaned with soap or 
sanitizer before providing the service to a customer. 
   
 (15) When working on the premises, the service shall not be provided to a customer without adequate 
cleaning prior to service after the use of toilets or after contact with any contaminants. 
   
 (16) When serving the customers on the premises, every service  provider shall wear an apron and 
it shall be of very clean condition. 
   
 (17) Dust and hair shall be swept and removed after each servi ce on the premises, and all shall be 
temporarily disposed into a sealed garbage bin. 
   
 (18) Floor, chairs, and tables on the premises shall be cleane d daily with disinfectants before starting 
work. 
   
 (19) No person shall use the service area of the premises for eating or any other purpose. 
   
. (20) Foot-operated garbage bins with lids shall be kept for t he separate collection of waste collected 
in the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that.  
   
 (21) The following procedures shall be followed in the managem ent of waste that collects in relation 
to the premises.
 (A) Removed hair shall be collected at the end of each service  and disposed in a separate 
garbage bin. 
 (B) Other waste generated by the activities in the premises sh all be collected separately 
without mixing them with the discharged hair. 
 (C) The waste related to the premises shall be disposed in accordan ce with the waste 
management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in ac cordance with the 
waste disposal strategy implemented by the license holder as agreed by the Public Health 
Inspector.  
   
 (22) Latrines in the premises shall be cleaned and disinfected  at least twice a day and shall be kept 
free from odor, and in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, 
the latrines on the premises shall be cleaned and maintained in accordance with the guidelines 
given by the Chairman as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
 (23) Any person who suﬀ  ers from any infection, transmittable or skin disease, or who has recently 
suﬀ ered from such a disease, or who has recently nursing a person  who has recently infected 
from any such disease, unless the period of infection and incubation has expired, shall not be 
employed or employed as an assistant at any licensed place. 
   
 (24) Any person identiﬁ  ed as suﬀ ering from any infection, transmittable or skin disease shall not 
normally be entered to the premises for service. 
   
 (25) When the license holder decides or in case where it is pr escribed by the Council or any other 
competent authority as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the body temperature of 
all persons visit seeking service on the premises shall be chec ked to ensure that their body 
temperature is at a normal level and entered into the premises, and required thermometers shall 
be maintained to check body temperature without contact. 

<!-- page 170 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 170A
 (26) The health guidelines to be followed by each client on th e premises shall be displayed on the 
premises and the license holder shall ensure that all activitie s are carried out in accordance 
with those guidelines. 
   
 (27) Applies to everyone employed on the premises, the license  holder shall ensure that,
 
 (A) That the clothing worn at work is clean and in good health  condition, 
 (B) That the jewelry worn and their nails are maintained in a manner that does not harm the 
customer, 
 (C) That the hands are sanitized and cleaned prior to service.  
   
 (28) It is the job of the license holder to subject the employ ees of the premises to medical checkups 
at least once a year. 
   
 (29) A copy of this By-law and license shall be maintained on display in each premises. 
   
 12. T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
 13. In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
 14. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the 
premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
 15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this By-law violates the provisions of this By-law 
or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c 
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
   
  (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the li cense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
 16. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being  
complied with the notice within the period of time or additiona l period given under Section 15
above. 
   
 17. It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this By-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this By-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 
for each day of such violation. 
Power to enter the 
premises
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty

<!-- page 171 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 171A
 18. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law,
  “Council” means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Disinfectant" means to reduce the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by a chemical 
agent or physical means to a level that does not reduce the safety or suitability,
  "Reasonable Time" shall mean the Licensed Function or the rel evant time.    
 
   
 19. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this By-law, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
SCHEDULE
Application to obtain a Trade License for the Year....................... 
 01. Name of the applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Phone number: -
 05. Start year: -
 06. Address where the beauty center is maintained: - 
 07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 08. Assessment Number: -
 09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its r eference number: -  
 10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number Mobile: - Fixed: -
 
 11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant  to the business: -
  (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Signature of the Applicant
Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 172 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 172A
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back.
    
Date:- ……………………………….
  Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
Recommend/ not recommended issuing the license.
    
Date:- ……………………………….
  Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request your observations and recommendations promptly f or the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back.
    
Date:- ……………………………….
 Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Compliance with By-law and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
of license.
    
Date:- ……………………………….
  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
    
Date:- ……………………………….
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
–––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTION PLACES
 1. This By-law is enacted to regulate, monitor, inspect and co ntrol food production places within the 
authority area of the Seethawaka. Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law Regarding Food Productio n Places of the Seethawaka. Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
   
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act. 
   
 4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawaka Pradesh iya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a place where food is produced commercially for human consumption 
Short title
Legal power
That a license shall 
be obtained

<!-- page 173 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 173A
(hereinafter referred to as the premises in some places) except  under a license obtained from the 
Chairman under this By-law. 
   
 5. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule published in this By-law. 
   
 6. Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
 7. Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
 (1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constr uctions duly made in accordance with 
the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 o f 1978 or the Housing and 
Urban Development Ordinance and;
 (A) The material used in all constructions shall not emit toxi c substances and shall not emit 
toxic gases, and all constructions shall be made up of surfaces where organisms cannot 
be easily retained.
 (B) The internal layout shall be designed with adequate space to enable the service to be 
performed without interruption. 
 (C) Shall be designed with a protective layout to prevent entr y of contamination substances 
into food raw material and cooked food.
 (D) Shall be designed to check the hygienic conditions of the internal foods of the premises.
 (E) Things disposed under the internal processing activities o f the premises shall be arranged 
with references that will not ﬂ ow back in any way. 
   
 (2) In the food processing area of the premises, 
 (A) Floor and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and no n-absorbent materials.
 (B) All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned detergen ts and disinfectants. 
 (C) The c eiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.
 (D) If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be  shielded with covers prevent 
entering insects. 
 (E) Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ ow of air from outside and to ﬂ ow exhaust 
air out. 
   
 (3) Ensure that air conditioners operate at adequate temperatu res when adequate ventilation is 
provided in the premises or air conditioned, and all air conditioning systems shall be designed 
to prevent air from returning. 
Applying for a 
License
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 174 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 174A
 (4) For the employees on the premises; 
 (A) If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate sanitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the foo d preparation, food 
production or ingredients storage area. 
 (B) Rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square meter s of space is available for each 
employee to sleep. 
 (C) Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provided  for both females and males. 
   
 (5) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed s o that customers can order food with 
adequate space with physical distancing when required. 
   
 (6) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers. 
   
 (7) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of suﬃ   cient capacity shall be available to be 
utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply failure.
 
 (8) Internal drains and waste discharged from the premises sha ll be directed to a septic tank or a 
soakage pit and if that soakage pit or septic tank is in a source of water, it shall be at a distance 
more than 15 meters away. 
   
 8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this By-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
  (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the a pplicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with. 
   
  (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the  conditions under Section 7 are not 
complied with. 
   
 9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license. 
   
 10. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license applies. 
   
 11. All persons receives a license under this By-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein.    
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations 
made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all terms made by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic is 
declared applicable under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease 
Ordinance. 
Issuing a license
Fees for a license
Inspection fees
 
Validity period
Conditions
relevant to a
license

<!-- page 175 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 175A
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons who 
come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they visit the 
premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of  an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Servi ces or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises 
in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the  eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with disinfectant 
and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are being so. 
   
 (7) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it do es not slip easily, 
and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning proce ss boards mentioning on that 
regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers. 
   
 (8) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with disinfectants 
twice daily. 
   
 (9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the 
road or outside area. 
   
 (10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
 (12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shal l be maintained in accordance with 
the following requirements. 
   
 (A) All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a non-absorbent 
material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and sha ll be made of stainless 
material.
 (B) All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to  be easily cleaned.
 (C) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials and 
shall have lids.
 (D) All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitabl e condition to be used. 
   
 (13) If food is to be distributed outside the premises during production, there shall be a speciﬁ c 
designated place for it.
 
 (14) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not 
harm the taste of the food. 
   
 (15) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar. 

<!-- page 176 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 176A
 (16) Premises shall have water storage facilities and the rele vant containers shall be stainless. 
   
 (17) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be t horoughly washed, cleaned and used. 
   
 (18) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous  containers free from contamination. 
   
 (19) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water. 
   
 (20) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that t hey can be distinguished from any  
  other pipeline. 
   
 (21) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on the
   premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons shall
   be employed to regulate it. 
   
 (22) Meat and ﬁ  sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigera tor on the premises 
  and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Cels ius until used without contami- 
  nation. 
   
 (23) If an order has been issued that all persons should wear masks when socializing when an 
epidemic situation has been declared in the authority area under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it or due to the risk of an epidemic in the 
authority area, any person not wearing a face mask shall not be allowed to enter the premises 
for transactions. 
   
 (24) Everyone involved in food production shall use hats when involved in production activities. 
   
 (25) Food for sale on the premises shall not be kept in such a  way as to cause contamination, and  
  all activities such as serving food, assembling for takeaway,  etc., shall be carried out under a 
  speciﬁ  c procedure using appropriate gloves. 
   
 (26) All persons involved in serving, usage or assembling food  on the premises;
 (A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or ﬁ  ngers. 
 (B) Under no circumstances shall money be used while working.
 (C) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favo rable  use for food.
 (D) A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
 (E) The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall a lways be kept out of contact 
with any food. 
 (F) All utensils used for food serving shall be kept thoroughly clean and in separate containers.
 
 (G) Employees shall work to use, assemble food in such a way t hat their activity, usage does 
not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way.
 (H) What is taken for food wrapping shall not be a source of food c ontamination in
anyway. 

<!-- page 177 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 177A
 (27) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has 
declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, usage, serving, or assembling 
food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with the directives made by 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman  as per their 
instructions in addition to any other provisions of this By-law. 
   
 (28) (A) Any work related to food production on the premises s hall not be open to a public road 
or public space or shall not be done in a space where air ﬂ ows easily from such a public 
road or open space for the general public, and food production activities shall take place 
in an enclosed space within the premises.
  (B) Chimneys and absorbent fans shall be installed so that ho t air and steam generated in the 
closed space for food production can ﬂ ow easily.
  (C) Noise generated from any approved activity in food produc tion shall not be a disturbance 
in any way to the public or consumers. 
 
 (29) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels used for cleaning shall be of clean 
condition. 
   
 (30) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premise s shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants. 
   
 (31) All cooked food that can be easily spoiled among the cook ed food on the premises shall be kept 
at a temperature not exceeding four degrees Celsius or else bel ow 60 degrees Celsius except 
in the following cases. Occasions where it is not, shall be as follows. 
   
 (A) In cases where the entire collection is not exposed or dis played for sale for more than 
two hours or
 (B) When preparation and serving are done in an approximate ti me period. 
   
 (32) Pastries, patties, savories, pizza and similar food which  include cooked meat or ﬁ  sh which 
are consumed in the condition where there are normally sold on the premises shall be kept in 
containers with covers. 
   
 (33) Milk for use on the premises shall be kept in a refrigera tor at a temperature not exceeding seven 
degrees Celsius. 
   
 (34) Pesticide materials kept on the premises shall be kept in a locked container at a speciﬁ c place 
on the premises. 
   
 (35) The area for employee facilities in the premises shall be  with adequate sanitary facilities and 
shall be spacious and latrines for both males and females shall  be maintained in accordance 
with sanitary standards. 
   
 (36) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not cause contamination 
of food. 

<!-- page 178 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 178A
 (37) Cleaning activities on the premises shall be carried out on a regular schedule subject to the  
  following: 
   
 (A) A speciﬁ  c task assignment shall be maintained to adequately clean all sections of the 
institution, and to prioritize the cleaning and application of disinfectants in the speciﬁ c 
areas described in this By-law.
 (B) It shall be the work of the license holder to make sure that the work under (A) above is 
carried out precisely.
 (C) Relevant cleaning activities shall be done to prevent dust duri ng preparation and 
assembling of food in the premises.
 (D) All utensils used in food preparation shall be maintained so that parts of cooked food do 
not remain in any way.
 (E) The water used for cleaning, detergents and disinfectants shall be washed away so that 
it does not remain on the containers in any way.
 (F) The ceiling, walls, etc., of the premises shall be maintai ned so that no insects remain.  
   
 (38) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the pre mises in any way. 
   
 (39) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and shall 
be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
to check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant records shall also be maintained so 
that they can be inspected at any time within the premises. Also the health check-ups on them 
shall be both clinical and epidemiological.
 
 (40) A health monitoring system shall be set up regarding the employees working on the premises 
and a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (41) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the w ritten rules applicable 
to it. 
   
 (42) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public 
Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be inform ed and shall act in accordance 
with the instructions given by him. 
   
 (43) Prior to commencing work on the premises, all persons wor king on the premises shall not 
engage in cooking and assembling food without adequate sanitation after using the toilet and 
after contact with dirt, and everyone who engaged in work so sh all wear a clean and pocket-
free apron. 
   
 (44) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean their ha nds frequently using 
disinfectants. 
   
 (45) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises. 
   
 (46) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they are wearing on 
the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed containers that are kept 

<!-- page 179 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 179A
on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in ac cordance 
with the waste management program and instructions implemented by the Council without 
mixing with other wastes. 
   
 (47) Every person involved in usage of food on the premises shall maintain maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, sho es and appropriate hygienic 
clothing. 
   
 (48) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease 
or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds,  skin infections or any other 
infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   
 (49) Every person involved in usage of food on the premises sh all not engage in activities such 
as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose,  which can cause food 
contamination. 
   
 (50) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the premises. 
   
 (51) If an employee serving on the premises contracted an infe ctious, transmittable or skin disease, 
the license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ  cation, all 
persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quaran tine instructions given by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him. 
   
 (52) The license holder shall take every step to maintain the premis es in such a way not to 
happen or not to do any activity in any way that could cause food contamination during food 
production. 
   
 (53) The license holder shall have provided all information re garding the employees working on 
the premises to the Chairman. 
   
 12. (1) It shall also be lawful for the Chairman to grade a premises relevant to this By-law according 
to the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into account the quality when 
fulﬁ lling the conditions under this By-law. 
   
  (2) Where the Chairman has graded under this section, the grade of the premises for the year relevant 
to the license and a certiﬁ cate issued by the Chairman shall be displayed on the premises  as 
visible to the public. 
   
 13. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the 
premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
 14. T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
 15. In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
Grading the
premises
On-site inspection
and obtaining
samples

<!-- page 180 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 180A
 16. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the 
premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
 17. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this By-law violates the provisions of this By-law 
or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c 
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law. 
   
  (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the li cense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
 18. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 17 above.
    
 19. It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this By-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this By-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 
for each day of such violation.    
   
 20. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law,
  “Council” means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “License holder” means an institution, person or an individua l who has obtained a license under this 
By-law,
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at that 
time,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food, 
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by chemicals or 
physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability of 
food at all stages in the food chain,
  "Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects,
Power to enter the 
premises
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions

<!-- page 181 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 181A
  "Food" means the things produced and kept for sale in the ins titution for the human consumption as 
food or drinks and the separate things used to prepare food.
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work, 
  "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 .    
   
 21. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this By-law, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
SCHEDULE
Application to obtain a license to maintain a food production place for the year...........................
 01. Name of the Applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Phone number: -
 05. Name of the business : -
 06. Start year: -
 07. Address of the place of business: - 
 08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 09. Assessment Number: -
 10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its r eference number: -  
 11. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number Mobile: - Fixed: -
 
 12. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant  to the business: -
  (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… f or the place where the 
business mentioned above is conducted.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Signature of the Applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in respect of the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-     ……………………………….
  Secretary
Inconsistency
between texts

<!-- page 182 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 182A
Secretary,
Recommend/Not recommend issuing license.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
  Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Compliance with By-laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation issuing a 
license.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
–––––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW REGARDING VEGETABLES AND FRUITS SELLING PLACES
 1. This By-law is enacted to regulate, supervise, inspect and control the vegetables and fruits selling 
places in the authority area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law Regarding Vegetables and  Fruits Selling Places in the Seethawaka  
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-section 126(ix) of the said Act. 
   
 4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawaka Pradesh iya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a vegetables and fruits selling center or a storage center for such sale 
(hereinafter referred to as the premises) except under a licens e obtained from the Chairman under 
this By-law. 
   
 5. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule published in this By-law. 
Short title
Applying for a
License

<!-- page 183 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 183A
 6. Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
 7. Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
 (1) Permanent constructions related to the premises shall be c onstructions in accordance with the 
provisions mentioned under the Urban Development Authority Act or the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) The material used for construction shall be made of materials that do not retain living organisms, 
and permanent constructions shall be made on the premises to prevent the entry and retention 
of pests and fumes. 
   
 (3) The premises shall be designed to be easily cleaned and in  a way so that water does not retain. 
   
 (4) The interior of the premises shall be designed so that the  nature of the fruits and vegetables 
can be inspected always. 
   
 (5) The building, walls of the premises shall be made of washa ble materials with waterprooﬁ ng 
so as not to absorb water. 
   
 (6) Every construction on the premises shall be free of holes cause for the retention of insects. 
   
 (7) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept shall be easily disinfected and made 
of non-absorbent materials. 
   
 (8) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept shall be inactive to disinfectants and 
cleaning agents.  
   
 (9) If vegetables or fruits are stored or stored and kept on t he premises; refrigeration facilities shall 
be in place to maintain the speciﬁ ed temperature. 
   
 (10) When keeping vegetables and fruits for sale, refrigeration facilities shall be available to maintain 
it at low temperatures. 
   
 (11) There shall be a ceiling or concrete surface above the pl ace where vegetables and fruits are 
stored or kept. 
   
 (12) The premises shall be air conditioned or windows and othe r openings shall be set so that air 
can be ﬂ ow well. 
   
 (13) The interior parts of the premises shall be constructed t o be easily cleaned. 
   
 (14) The water required for the premises shall be supplied fro m within or outside the premises and 
shall be equipped with storage facilities for continuous water supply. 
   
 (15) The premises shall have a separate place for washing vege tables and fruits and shall be 
constructed so that water does not retain in the premises.
 
 (16) Internal drains of the premises shall be directed to a so akage pit or a septic tank and if there is 
a source of water in the premises of the respective soakage pit or septic tank, it shall be set at 
a distance of at least 15 meters away. 
Conditions for a
license

<!-- page 184 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 184A
 (17) For the employees on the premises; 
 (i) If staying as residents, there shall be rooms with adequate sanita ry facilities for 
accommodation. 
 (ii) Latrine facilities shall be provided as appropriate. 
   
 (18) Platforms for keeping or storing vegetables and fruits in  the premises shall be set at a height 
of at least 28 cm above the ground. 
   
 8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this By-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not 
complied with. 
   
 9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.  
   
 10. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license applies. 
   
 11. All persons receives a license under this By-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein.    
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared applicable under the regulations made under Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all terms made by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic is 
declared applicable under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease 
Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons who 
come to the premises expecting services, shall not related to the transactions unless they visit 
the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of  an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Servi ces or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises 
in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the  eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
Issuing a license
Fees for a
license
Inspection fees
Validity period
Conditions
applicable to a
license

<!-- page 185 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 185A
 (6) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the 
road or outside area. 
   
 (7) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (8) Light bulbs ﬁ  xed above the vegetables or fruits for sale or stored shall be  of a safe condition 
and all of them shall be covered. 
   
 (9) Disposal of waste collected in the premises shall be done in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha and in a ccordance with the 
applicable written laws in this regard. 
   
 (10) If the waste collected at the premises is managed by the license holder himself, it shall be in 
accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Public Health Inspector or the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health. 
   
 (11) When using weighing equipment for the sale of vegetables and fruits in the premises, it shall 
be done in accordance with the prescribed standards. 
   
 (12) If prepare fruits to make it easier to eat or to prepare fruit juices on the premises, everyone 
who does so shall not engage in any activity such as fruit preparation or fruit juice preparation 
without the use of gloves and hats.  
   
 (13) When preparing fruit for consumption, shall always use dr inking water and ice made from that 
water. 
   
 (14) Preparation of fruits for consumption shall not be done i n advance except in the presence of 
consumers. 
   
 (15) Vegetables and fruits shall be kept for sale so that they do not mix with rotten vegetables and 
fruits. 
   
 (16) The premises shall be kept in a clean condition at all ti mes and no activities shall be carried 
out on the premises in such a manner as to cause any contamination of vegetables or fruits in 
the premises for any reason. 
   
 (17) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has 
declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons working on the premises shall maintain the premises 
in accordance with the directives made by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health 
Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions in addit ion to any other provisions of 
this By-law. 
   
 (18) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not cause contamination 
of vegetables and fruits. 
   
 (19) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the pre mises in any way. 
   
 (20) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 

<!-- page 186 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 186A
 (21) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean their ha nds frequently using 
disinfectants. 
   
 (22) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they are wearing on 
the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed containers that are kept 
on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in ac cordance 
with the waste management program and instructions implemented by the Council without 
mixing with other wastes. 
   
 (23) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease 
or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds,  skin infections or any other 
infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   
 (24) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic, he shall not be allowed to the premises in any event. 
   
 (25) Employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious, transmittable or skin disease, the 
license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all persons 
on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him.
 
   
 12. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the 
premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
 13. T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
 14. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this By-la w violates the provisions of this By-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to t he license holder informing a 
speciﬁ c time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.  
  
  (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the li cense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
 15. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 14 above. 
   
 16. It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this By-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this By-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 
for each day of such violation. 
On-site
inspection and
obtaining samples
Cancellation of the
license
Penalty

<!-- page 187 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 187A
 17. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law,
  “Council” means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “License holder” means an institution, person or an individua l who has obtained a license under this 
By-law,
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at that 
time,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food, 
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by chemicals or 
physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work, 
  "Basic Law" means Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
   
18.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this By-law, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.  
SCHEDULE
Application to obtain a License to Maintain a Vegetables/Fruits trade Stall for the Year .................. 
 01. Name of the applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Phone number: -
 05. Name of the business : -
 06. Address of the place of business: - 
 07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 08. Assessment Number: -
 09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its r eference number: -  
 10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address:
 II. National Identity Card Number:
 III. Telephone Number: Mobile: - Fixed: - 
 
 11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant  to the business: -
  (Copies should be attached)
Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency
between texts

<!-- page 188 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 188A
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… for the place where the trade 
mentioned above is conducted.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Signature of the applicant
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
    
Date:- .................................
 Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
Recommended / Not recommended issuing license.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
  Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Compliance with By-laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health

<!-- page 189 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 189A
BY-LAW ON CONTROLLING THE DISPOSAL OF WASTE HAZARDOUS
TO PUBLIC HEALTH
 01. This By- law is enacted to recommend disposal strategies t o prevent the disposal of health safety 
equipment used by the pubic to the environment being hazardous to public health in an epidemic 
situation within the authority area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
  
 02. This By-law is cited as the By-law to control the disposal  of waste hazardous to the public health of 
the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
  
 03. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate th ese By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
  
 04. In the event of the use of masks, gloves or any other prot ective wear (hereinafter referred to as 
equipment in some places) by the people of the authority area i n accordance with the terms and 
conditions laid down by the Chairman under the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to 
control an epidemic situation that has been declared throughout  Sri Lanka or in any part of the 
country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared under 
the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or any of t he regulations made under it, the 
disposal of such items after use shall be subject to the provisions herein.
  
 05. All public or private premises shall have separate closed garbage containers for the disposal of gloves, 
masks or any other protective wear used by the public for health sefety purposes or at any instance 
as referred to in Section 4 above relating to the authority area.
  
 06. No gloves, masks and other such items shall be disposed by  any person other than a speciﬁ  cally 
separated garbage container mentioned under Section 5 above, subject to the circumstances referred 
to in under Section 4 of this By-law within the authority area.
  
 07. It is the responsibility and duty of the authority of the premises to maintain adequate garbage disposal 
containers for the disposal of gloves, masks and other such ite ms used in all public premises in the 
event of a situation referred to in under Section 4 of this By-law.
  
 08. No person shall mix or dispose any waste other than the waste speciﬁ ed under this By-law to a garbage 
container maintained for the purpose of this By-law.
  
 09. Disposal or dumping of waste collected under this By-law shall be carried out only in accordance with 
the procedure recommended by the Chairman on the instructions o f the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
and the waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be publicized within 
the authority area.
  
 10. It is an oﬀ  ense for any person to act in violation of the provisions unde r Sections 6 and 8 of this 
By-law, and after being convicted by the Magistrate's Court, sh all be subject to a penalty under 
Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 of the said Ordinance.
  
 11. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law,
  “Council” means the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or perform the duties of that position,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medi cal Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
Short title
Applicability
That speciﬁ c
garbage bins shall
be maintained
Responsibility of
the public authority
Prevention of
mixing
Penalty
Deﬁ nition

<!-- page 190 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 190A
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the post o f Public Health Inspector attached to 
the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Authority Area" means the Seethawaka  Pradeshiya Sabha area,
  
 12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
–––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW  OF  THE  PRADESHIYA  SABHA  RELATING  OFFENSIVE  AND
DANGEROUS  TRADE
 1. This By-law is enforced to regulate, supervise and control the oﬀ ensive dangerous trade conducted 
within the authority area and to repeal the By-law on oppressive and hazardous trade which has been 
applied in accordance with sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard 
By- Laws Act No. 06 of 1952 of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law of the Seethawaka Prades hiya Sabha relating oﬀ ensive and 
dangerous trade. 
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 126 
(ix) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act. 
 4. It shall be lawful for the Pradeshiya Sabha to determine an d publish from time to time which trades are 
oﬀ ensive trades, dangerous trades and oﬀ ensive and dangerous trades  are relevant to the purpose of 
this By-law among the trades established and maintained within the authority area of the Seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to the authority area).
 
 5. No person shall engage in any form of oﬀ  ensive trade, dangerous trade or oﬀ ensive and dangerous 
trade (hereinafter referred to trade) as declared under section 3 above in any premises located within 
the authority area except under a license obtained from the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
  
 6. Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall a pply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule of this By-law. 
 7. Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by submitting the application by 
fulﬁ lling  the requirements by registered post, handing over in ha nd to the Pradeshiya Sabha or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
 
 8. It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a ﬁ  xed inspection fee for site inspections to be 
carried out prior to the issuance of a license in respect of each application made under this By-law. 
 
 9. Anyone applying for a license under this By-law shall have fulﬁ lled the following conditions. 
 
 (1) If there are permanent constructions under the premises wh ere the trade is being carried out 
(hereinafter referred to as the premises), the relevant constru ctions should be constructions 
made in accordance with a plan approved under the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 
of 1978 or under the Housing and Development Ordinance. 
 (2) If the area is zoned in accordance with the provisions of the Urban Development Authority 
Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Development Ordinance, th e premises should be set 
up accordingly.
Inconsistency
between texts
Short name
That a license shall
be obtained
Applying for a
License
Inspection fees
Conditions for a
license

<!-- page 191 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 191A
 (3) All relevant constructions shall be in a properly  ﬁ  nished but shall be constructed in such a way 
as not to adversely aﬀ ect the trade conducted on the premises in any way.
 
 (4) The premises shall have space to enable the relevant opera tions to be carried out at a suﬃ  cient 
distance.
 
 (5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a way as to maintain proper cleanliness.
 
 (6) If there is a manufacturing process on the premises, the p art  for it shall be speciﬁ cally separated 
and the premises shall be designed to prevent customers from entering it in any way except for 
those who are engaged in the relevant activities. 
 (7) If there are storage facilities in the premises, the relev ant warehouses should be arranged in 
accordance with the proper safety standards and suitable for the purpose and shall be in a safe 
and proper condition with adequate space.
 
 (8) The premises shall be properly lighted and ventilated, or artiﬁ cially meet the requirements.
 
 (9) The ﬂ  oor of the construction section and the non-construction secti on shall be prepared with 
a suitable slope so that it can be easily cleaned and easily drained. 
 (10) The walls of the buildings on the premises shall be made of water-repellent material that can 
be easily cleaned, and the ceiling shall be installed for the parts where the trade is carried out 
other than those used for operations. 
 (11) Doors and windows used for buildings on the premises shal l have a smooth surface so that they 
do not absorb  water and doors for restricted areas shall be ﬁ tted in such a manner as to close 
automatically.
 (12) The premises shall have a ﬁ  re protection program in place and a ﬁ re safety certiﬁ cate should 
be obtained as applicable.
 (13) All drains installed in and around the premises shall be arranged in such a way which can easily 
drain waste water and shall be directed to the culverts or central treatment unit so that it is not 
open to the environment.
 (14) Soakage pits, suction pits installed in the premises shall be positioned in accordance with the 
approved plan and should be set at a distance of at least 15 m from a water source and should 
not be exposed to air.
 (15) When discharging sewage and feces on the premises,
 (A) It shall not in any way be allowed to ﬂ  ow into a public waterway, public drain, road or 
any other open area.
 (B) The soakage pit or suction pit to which they are directed shall not be exposed to the air 
and shall be prepared in such a manner as not to pollute the ground water due to that pit.
 (C) The relevant soakage pit or suction pit shall be at least 15 m from any water source.
 (16) If chemical waste water produced due to a  manufacturing process on the premises, it should 
not be disposed of without treatment under the direction of a speciﬁ c authority.

<!-- page 192 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 192A
 (17) (A) Adequate supply of drinking water to the premises sha ll be provided and water storage 
facilities shall be provided.
  (B) Water storage tanks shall be of suﬃ   cient height and the water stored there shall not be 
polluted in any way.
  (C) If drinking water and non-drinking water are to be used in the premises, the drinking water 
shall be carried through separate pipelines so as not to be mixed with the non- drinking 
water, and such pipes shall be painted in diﬀ erent colors.
 
 (18) For employees working in the premises,
 (A) If employed as a resident, there shall be accommodation fa cilities with adequate sanitary 
facilities.
 (B) When providing residential facilities, the accommodation f acilities should be at least 
four square meters per person.
 (C) Adequate toilet facilities for the residents shall be kept  separate from those of men and 
women and shall be of proper standard.
 (D) If there are sections relevant to the business function an d manufacturing functions the 
residents' section of the premises shall be maintained separately.
 
 (19) Adequate space shall be provided for customers visiting t he premises to be able to maintain 
physical distance when required. 
 
 (20) In the event of an epidemic within the authority area und er the Quarantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it, adequate health care facilities shall be 
provided to enable the applicable regulations in such cases. 
 10. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a l icense to be issued under this By-law, the 
Chairman, 
 (1) Shall issue a permit for the premises to the applicant in accordance with the information under 
section 8. 
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons in case  of non- compliance with the conditions 
under section 8. 
 11. The fee to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fee to be decided and published 
annually by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
 12. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until 31st December of the year in which the license applies. 
 13. All persons licensed under this By-law shall act in accord ance with the conditions set out herein. 
 
 (1) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman from t ime to time under the instructions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or in any part of the t erritory or in any case where an 
epidemic has been declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of Diseases Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained subject to each such rule.
Issuing a license
Fees for a license

<!-- page 193 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 193A
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all orders made by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in respect of any epidemic declared 
under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or any regulations made thereon.
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, services should not be 
provided on the premises unless the person seeking employment c omes in accordance with 
the health instructions issued to control the spread of the disease.
 (4) Health safety instructions imposed by the Director General  of Health Services or the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman as per their instructions in the event of an epidemic or risk 
of an epidemic in the authority area shall be implemented and the licensee should be satisﬁ ed 
of doing so.
 (5) First aid facilities should be provided relevant to each p remises so that they can be used for 
emergencies and the staﬀ  should be trained for that.
 (6) Adequate ﬁ  re protection system should be installed in the premises and it should be maintained 
in proper condition under proper inspection. Everyone working o n the premises should be 
aware of the functioning of the ﬁ re protection system in the premises and should be given an 
understanding through a rehearsal of how to respond in the event of an emergency ﬁ re.
 (7) Premises and employees work in the premises shall be insur ed under appropriate insurance.
 
 (8) Correct information on the area of residence, full name, i dentity card number and telephone 
number of each employee employed on the premises should be main tained and all such 
information should be submitted as recommended by the Chairman.
 (9) In the event of an epidemic in the area, everyone working on the premises shall act in accordance 
with the public health care instructions and the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
the health care instructions issued by the Chairman in accordance with the instructions of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, and the licensee shall ensure of it.
 (10) Appropriate arrangements should be made for the disposal of gloves, masks etc. used in the 
premises.
 (11) Thermometer shall be kept in order to measure the body te mperature of all visitors to the 
premises so that it can be used when health advice is given.
 (12) The premises should be kept clean at all times and relate d activities including disinfection 
should be maintained under proper management.
 (13) If there are any hazardous areas in the premises,  the re levant sign boards should be clearly 
displayed.
 (14) According to the nature of the trade, if there are any ch emicals or other substances that are 
harmful to health, advertisements should be pasted on the dangers and their usage.
 (15) If there are chemicals used and sold on the premises, the y should be securely packaged.
 (16) Anything on the premises should not be aﬀ  ected by the Tools, equipment, oils, disinfectants 
or anything else used for cleaning on the premises.
 
 (17) Surfaces that are frequently touched when working on the premises shall be regularly cleaned 
with disinfectant.

<!-- page 194 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 194A
 (18) No one shall spit on the premises.
 (19) If hand washing is required as a precautionary measure fo r visitors and employees on the 
premises, facilities should be provided for it.
 (20) (A) If hazardous material is stored or moved around the p remises, it should be stored in 
special safety containers.
 
 (B) Skilled labor shall have been deployed for the above (A).
 (21) For employees working in the premises,
 (A) Adequate bathroom and toilet facilities for men and women shall be provided and shall 
be properly arranged.
 (B) Restrictions on the activities of residents in a hazardous  premise in accordance with the 
nature of the trade shall be enforced by the licensee and the r elevant notices shall be 
prominently displayed on the premises.
 (C) Adequate security equipment and tools shall be provided ac cording to the form of trade.
 (D) Required training and advice must be provided by the licen see to act in accordance with 
all instructions and orders given by the Chairman as per the instructions of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of any epidemic or suspicion of any epidemic situation in 
the area or in any part of the country or throughout Sri Lanka.
 (E) A health monitoring system should be set up in the premise s and a process should be put 
in place to provide necessary advice to the employees.
 (22) In the event of an epidemic of transmissible or infectiou s disease in the authority area or in the 
event of a possible cause, the Chairman may instruct that one o r more of the following steps 
be taken within the premises as recommended by the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health and those 
instructions given should be implemented by the licensee.
 (A) Shall maintain a distance from each other while working in  the premises,
 (B) The minimum number of employees required for the service s hall be employed in small 
groups under several shifts,
 (C) Public gatherings and meetings should not be held within t he premises for a speciﬁ ed 
period of time,
 (D) Shall make sure that the body temperature is under the nor mal range upon entering the 
premises,
 (E) Meals shall be provided in small groups on the premises,
 
 (F) Adequate disinfectant, soap and hand washing facilities ha ve been provided to clean the 
hands of the employees and visitors to the premises
 (G) Masks shall be used while working on the premises, taking into account the need,
 (H) Everyone in the premises shall properly implement the resp iratory etiquette,

<!-- page 195 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 195A
 (I) The activities within the premises shall be limited to a c ertain period of time.
 (J) The employees working on the premises shall be subjected to health checkups as prescribed 
by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health within a speciﬁ ed period of time.
 (23) The premises shall be cleaned daily and the disinfection process shall be carried out as per a 
schedule according to the situation and the licensee should ensure that it is so.
 (24) The licensee should be aware of the potential risks in co nducting the relevant trade on the 
premises, prescribe the appropriate remedies, etc., and take the necessary action.
 (25) The following measures should be taken in relation to the  waste management of the premises.
 (A) Disposal of waste in the premises shall be carried out in a proper manner and if the 
waste is disposed in the premises in accordance with the waste management program 
implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the waste should be handed  over in accordance 
with the  relevant instructions and regulations.
 (B) Under no circumstances shall the licensee mix hazardous wa ste with other waste and 
hand it over.
 (C) In the case of premises not covered by the Solid Waste Man agement Service operated 
by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the licensee shall dispose of the waste subject to the conditions 
recommended by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector.
 (D) If there is a hazardous waste generated in the premises, a ction shall be taken to dispose 
of the contaminant in accordance with the rules and regulations in force in that regard.
 (26) When the permit applicable to the premises is in force the licensee shall maintain the premises in 
accordance with all instructions given by the Chairman on the recommendation of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health regarding the health safety measures of the emp loyees of the premises and 
visitors to the premises.
 (27) The premises shall be maintained so as not to cause any o dor or any other disturbance caused 
by any raw material or product or its by-product.
 (28) Packing height shall not exceed 1.5 m above ground level unless adequate security measures 
are in place when storing the manufacturing products on the premises or products for sale on 
the premises.
 (29) When the goods sold on the premises are governed by any other w ritten law such as 
agrochemicals, chemicals or drugs, the relevant license shall be displayed on the premises in 
a manner that is properly visible to consumers.
 (30) All items for sale within the premises shall be packaged separately.
 (31) If emissions are released into the environment under prod ucts for sale on the premises, its 
release shall comply with the regulations of the Central Environmental Authority.
 (32) If noise is generated during activities on the premises, it shall be controlled in accordance with 
the regulations of the Central Environmental Authority.
 (33) Tools, water tanks, stoves and other equipment used in th e premises shall be properly cleaned 
and maintained after use.

<!-- page 196 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 196A
 (34) Any prohibited chemical for any purpose on the premises s hall not be used.
 (35) All electrical wiring in the premises shall be properly m aintained and a report shall be obtained 
from an electrical engineer or a qualiﬁ ed professional at least once in every two years.
 (36) The extent of the premises reserved for customers shall n ot be used for any other use.
 (37) Every place, tools, utensils on the premises shall not be kept in a manner of spreading mosquitoes, 
any other larvae or insects.
 (38) A vector or infected person suﬀ  ering from or suspected of having an infectious disease shall 
not be employed on the premises and the licensee should be sati sﬁ ed that such person is not 
employed. 
 14. A license issued under this By-law and the copies in three languages of this By-law shall be displayed 
in all licensed premises. 
 15. When the Chairman has recommended that the licensee shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into 
account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the  area, the licensee shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman and the Chairman shall send a copy to the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health. 
 16. It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publ ic Health Inspector or any other authorized 
oﬃ  cer to enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain th e necessary samples and to inspect 
the premises in accordance with the provisions of this By-law. 
 17. (1) In the event of a violation of the provisions of this By-law or any other contrary to the provisions 
of this By-law  in a premises licensed under this By-law, the Chairman shall hand over a notice 
to the licensee to be compliance with the By-law notifying a sp eciﬁ ed period not exceeding 
thirty days. 
 
  (2) Upon submission of a notice under this section to the lic ensee, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time on a reasonable request to grant an additional period to act in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The period which is gran ted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
 18. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the licensee fails to comply with the 
notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above. 
 19. It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license obtained under this By-law or in violation of 
the provisions of the By-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable 
to a penalty under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. Further, after 
being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, and in the event of further breach of the law after a notice has 
been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, breach of the law must be subject to an 
additional ﬁ ne referred to in sub-section 122 (2) of the old Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 for 
each day in which they continue the breach of the law.
 20. The By-laws on relating oﬀ  ensive and dangerous trade, which have been applied in accordance with 
Sub-section 1 of Section 3 of the Local Government Institutions  Standard By-laws Act No. 06 of 
1952 with eﬀ ect from the date on which this By-law comes into force, do not apply to the Seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
That the license
shall be displayed
Entering into
a statement of
agreement
Entering a premises
and obtaining
samples
Cancellation of the
license
Penalty

<!-- page 197 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 197A
 21. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text in th is By- law;
  “Pradeshiya Sabha” means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at present or the person who perform the duties of that position,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medi cal Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area.
  "Authorized Oﬃ   cer" means any oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman in writing,
  "Reasonable time" means the time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work,
  "Trade" means taking of something or a commodity out and sell ing it for money, or preparation for 
sale, or production for sale. 
 22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
SCHEDULE
Application for a Trade License for the Year ....................... 
 01. Name of the applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Phone number: -
 05. Nature of the business : -
 06. Start year :-
 07. Address of the place of business: - 
 08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 09. Assessment Number: -
 10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its r eference number: -  
 11. The manager or agent of the place of business,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number Mobile: - Fixed: - 
 
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request that a business license to be issued to me for the ye ar ............................ for the place where the 
industry, business mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules and regulations on this regard.
Date:- ……………………………….
 Signature of the applicant
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 198 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 198A
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me  your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned in the back. 
Date:-    
 .................................
 Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
  Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with By-laws and other rules and regulat ions. I will report for recommend the 
issuance of licenses.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health

<!-- page 199 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 199A
Short title
Applying for a 
License
Conditions for a 
license
BY-LAW RELATING TO HOTELS
 1. This By-law is enacted to regulate, supervise, inspect and control the operation of hotels and to 
repeal the By-law on Relating to Hotels which has been applied in accordance with sub-section (1) 
of section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard By-l aws Act No. 06 of 1952 within the 
authority area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law Relating to Hotels of th e Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
 4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawaka Pradesh iya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a hotel (hereinafter referred to as the premises  in some places) except 
under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law.
 5. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule published in this By-law.
 6. Submission of an application under the above section 5 can be made by fulﬁ lling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by e-mail 
to the extent permitted by the Council.
 7. Any person applying for a license under this By-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein.
 (1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constr uctions duly made in accordance with 
the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of  1978 or the Housing and 
Urban Development Ordinance and;
 (A) The material used in all constructions shall not emit toxi c substances and shall not emit 
toxic gases, and all constructions shall be made up of surfaces where organisms cannot 
be easily retained.
 (B) The internal layout shall be designed with adequate space to enable the service to be 
performed without interruption.
 (C) Shall be designed with a protective layout to prevent entr y of contamination substances 
into food raw material and cooked food.
 (D) Shall be designed to check the hygienic conditions of the inter nal foods of the 
premises.
 (E) Things disposed under the internal processing activities o f the premises shall be arranged 
with references that will not ﬂ ow back in any way.
 (2) In the food processing area of the premises,
 (A) Floor and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and no n-absorbent materials.
 (B) All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned detergen ts and disinfectants.
 (C) The c eiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.

<!-- page 200 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 200A
 (D) If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be  shielded with covers prevent 
entering insects.
 (E) Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ ow of air from outside and to ﬂ ow exhaust 
air out.
 (3) For the employees on the premises;
 (A) If working as residents, rooms with at least 4 square mete rs of space per person shall be 
provided with adequate space outside the relevant section for customer service.
 
 (B) Toilet facilities shall be provided with adequate sanitati on facilities and shall be separated 
as males and females.
 (C) The toilets and bathrooms provided shall be of permanent c onstruction and shall be well-
constructed and built outside the premises for the customers.
 (4) Premises shall have ﬁ re safety certiﬁ cates as applicable and ﬁ re safety facilities shall be provided 
in the premises as speciﬁ ed.
 (5) All buildings on the premises shall be constructed to allo w access to persons with disabilities 
and special needs.
 (6) Waste generated in the premises shall be disposed of in ac cordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha and if the license holder himself disposes of the 
waste in the premises, the  method followed shall be a method approved by the Public Health 
Inspector.
 (7) When entering the premises, a speciﬁ  c procedure shall be maintained to verify the identity of 
the entrants and to record it.
 (8) Adequate parking space shall be maintained in or near the premises for visitors to the premises.
 (9) Boards shall be ﬁ  xed so that customers can know about the facilities and services provided on 
the premises, and if there  is a registered business name or a corporate name registered with the 
Sri Lanka Tourism Authority, the relevant registration number shall be prominently displayed.
 (10) The interior design of the premises shall be designed in a way that is more customer friendly 
and pleasing, and the constructions and ﬁ xtures made shall not obstruct to the safety of the 
customer in any way.
 (11) Staﬀ   employed or to be employed to serve customers on the premises shall be persons trained 
by reputed institutions to provide a professional service.
 
 (12 ) Internal drains discharged from the premises shall be di rected to a septic tank or a soakage pit 
and if that soakage pit or septic tank is in a source of water, it shall be at a distance more than 
15 meters away.
 8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this By-law, the 
Chairman 
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with.
Acting according 
to an application

<!-- page 201 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 201A
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not 
complied with.
 
 9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
 
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.
 
 10. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license applies.
 
 11. All persons receives a license under this By-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
 (1) If the license holder is not the manager of the institutio n, the identity information requested by 
the Chairman regarding the manager shall be provided, and it sh all be provided so whenever 
changed.
 
 (2) Loudspeakers used for festive occasions, parties or other activities on the premises shall be 
maintained in accordance with environmental regulations and terms so as not to disturb others 
by playing musical instruments.
 (3) Adequate parking facilities shall be maintained so that no  vehicles come to the premises are 
parked on public access.
 (4) Name, address, identity card number and contact numbers re lated to all persons comes to stay, 
and if there are information to be maintained speciﬁ ed from time to time by the Director of Health 
Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the authority area or the Chairman regarding the 
persons anticipating services under the health reasons in the authority area all such information 
shall be documented and maintained.
 (5) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared applicable under the regulations made under Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained  subject to all such terms.
 (6) Room for accommodation, all spaces for accommodators use, latrines and bathrooms shall be 
disinfected before being  used by another person after being us ed by one person and latrines 
and bathrooms shall be disinfected daily even while customers are present.
 (7) Whenever there enough facts to suspect that there is a ris k of an epidemic in the authority area, 
the body temperature of everyone who comes to stay on the premises shall be measured before 
entering the premises to check whether the body temperature is within the speciﬁ c range by 
a person who is speciﬁ cally assigned for that purpose and everyone's hands and feet shall be 
cleaned with disinfectants before entering the premises.
 (8) All reusable items such as pillowcases, bed sheets, blanke ts, towels etc., which kept in each 
room for the use of the customers shall not be used for another customer without washing and 
cleaning.
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license

<!-- page 202 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 202A
 (9) By no means shall not allow more than one adult in a singl e room, more than two adults in a 
double room, more than three adults in a triple room, or exceed ing the maximum number of 
persons when four square meters per person is considered as the minimum space when the room 
can be accommodated by a group, and those over the age of ﬁ ve years shall be considered as 
adults for the purpose in this subsection.
 (10) Beds inside a room shall be maintained taking into accoun t the extent speciﬁ ed in subsection 
(9) above.
 (11) Under no circumstances shall anyone be permitted  to lodg e with a child except by a parent or 
legal guardian.
 (12) No person shall be allowed to sleep in an open area excep t the rooms on the premises.
 (13) No person shall be allowed to stay on the premises if the y do not agree to verify their identity 
or are unable to verify their identity, and the information regarding all persons staying shall be 
a statement under their signature.
 (14) When it is not an air-conditioned room, all rooms shall b e well ventilated and allowed to be 
used after leaving the doors and windows open for some time.
 (15) When a regulation under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance comes into 
force in respect of any epidemic situation in the authority area, facilities shall be provided the 
use the rooms in accordance with all the provisions of that regulation.
 (16) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations 
made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms.
 
 (17) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accorda nce with all guidelines made by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where a disease is declared 
applicable under the orders made  under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance.
 (18) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the autho rity area, relating to all persons who 
come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they visit the 
premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
 (19) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk o f an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Servi ces or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises 
in order to protect  from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so.
 (20) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and th e eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic  tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination.
 (21) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with disinfectant 
and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are being so.
 (22) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it do es not slip easily, 
and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning proce ss boards mentioning on that 
regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers.

<!-- page 203 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 203A
 (23) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with disinfectants 
twice daily.
 (24) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed  in any way to a public drain of the 
road or outside area.
 (25) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste.
 (26) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so.
 (27) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shal l be maintained in accordance with 
the following requirements.
 (A) All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a non-absorbent 
material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and sha ll be made of stainless 
material.
 (B) All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to  be easily cleaned.
 (C) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials and 
shall have lids.
 (D) All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitabl e condition to be used.
 (28) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not 
harm the taste of the food.
 (29) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar.
 (30) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be t horoughly washed, cleaned and used.
 (31) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous  containers free from contamination.
 (32) The ice used in the premises shall be made from  drinking  water.
 (33) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that t hey can be distinguished from any 
other pipeline.
 (34) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on the 
premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons shall 
be employed to regulate it.
 (35) Meat and ﬁ  sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the premises and 
shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used without contamination.
 (36) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling f ood on the premises;
 (A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or ﬁ  ngers
 (B) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favo rable use for food.

<!-- page 204 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 204A
 (C) A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
 (D) The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall a lways be kept out of contact 
with any food.
 (E)  All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean an d in separate containers.
 (F)  Employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve  food in such a way that their activity,
   usage does not cause food contamination or microbial prolife ration in any way.
 (37) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has 
declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, handling, se rving, or 
assembling food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with the directives 
made by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per 
their instructions in addition to any other provisions of this By- Law.
 
 (38) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels used for cleaning shall be of clean 
condition.
 (39) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premise s shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants.
 (40) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with  disinfectant shall be provided in 
the processing area of the premises and in the food consumption  areas of the premises and 
adequate lighting shall be maintained in the premises.
 (41) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not cause contamination 
of food.
 (42) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premi ses in any way.
 (43) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and shall 
be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
to check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant records shall also be maintained so 
that they can be inspected at any time within the premises. Also the health check-ups on them 
shall be both clinical and epidemiological.
 (44) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need.
 (45) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the written rules applicable to it.
 (46) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public 
Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be inform ed and shall act in accordance 
with the instructions given by him.
 (47) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises.

<!-- page 205 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 205A
 (48) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they are wearing on 
the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed containers that are kept 
on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in ac cordance 
with the waste management program and instructions implemented by the Council without 
mixing with other wastes.
 (49) Every person who handle food on the premises shall maintain maximum hygiene during handling 
of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate hygienic clothing.
 (50) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease 
or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds,  skin infections or any other 
infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.
 (51) Every person involved in handling of food on the event ro oms of the premises shall not engage 
in activities such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or  touching the nose, which can 
cause food contamination.
 (52) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises.
 (53) In the event of any person visits the event rooms of the premises for consumption of food or 
employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious, tran smittable or skin disease, the 
license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all persons 
on the premises  shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him.
 (54) When the event rooms of the premises are subjected to the  quarantine process, the premises 
shall not be used for any festive occasions until a certiﬁ  cate has been issued by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health  Inspector stating that the quarantine period is over and 
the premises have been completely disinfected.
 (55) Health care measures that are implemented on the event ro oms of the premises shall be 
prominently displayed on the premises in such a way that everyo ne who handles and 
consumes food in the premises can learn about the relevant instructions and shall acted according 
to them.
 (56) The license holder shall have provided all information re garding the employees working on 
the premises to the Chairman.
 12. T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health.
 13. In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order.
 14. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the 
premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law and obtain the required samples. 
Power to enter the 
premises.

<!-- page 206 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 206A
 15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this By-law violates the provisions of this By-law 
or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c 
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law. 
  (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the li cense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
 16. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the  notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 15 above.
 
 17. It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this By-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this By-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 
for each day of such violation.
 18. The By-law Relating to Hotels, which is applicable to sub-  section 1 of section 3 of the Local 
Government Institutions Standard By-laws Act, No. 06 of 1952, which is eﬀ ective before the eﬀ ective 
date of this By-law, does not apply to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
 19. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By- law,
  “Council” means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “License holder” means an institution, person or an individua l who has obtained a license under this 
By-law,
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at that 
time,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food,
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by chemicals or 
physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability of 
food at all stages in the food chain,
  "Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects, 
Cancellation of the 
license.
Penalty.
Deﬁ nitions.

<!-- page 207 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 207A
  "Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to the customer during preparing, 
processing, selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work,
  "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
 20. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this By-law, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
SCHEDULE
Application to obtain a License to Operate a hotel for the Year........................... 
 01. Name of the applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Phone number: -
 05. Start year :-
 06. Address of the place of business: - 
 07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 08. Assessment Number: -
 09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its r eference Number: -  
 10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number Mobile: - Fixed: - 
 
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Date:- ……………………………….
 Signature of the applicant.
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request you to provide you with your observations and recommendations proomptly for the issuance 
of a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date:-    
 .................................
 Secretary.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend/Not recommend issuing the license.
Date:-    
 ……………………………….
  Revenue Inspector.
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 208 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 208A
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
 
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back.
Date :-
 ……………………………….
 Secretary.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Compliance with By-laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.
Date :-
 ……………………………….
  Public Health Inspector.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the rel evant place as per above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.)
Date :- 
    
 ……………………………….
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health.
––––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW ON REGULATING THE LODGES AND ACCOMMODATION PLACES
IN THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
 1. This By-law is imposed to regularize, monitor and control t he lodges, accommodation places, 
houses etc. which are maintained for providing temporary accomm odation facilities and to repeal 
the By-laws relating to the Regulation of Lodges and Accommodations applied in accordance with 
Sub-section 1 of Section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard By- Laws Act, No. 06 of 
1952 in the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
 2. This By-law is called the By-law on regulating the lodges and accommodation places in the Seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
 
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 126(IX) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act. 
 4. No one in the area of jurisdiction of the . Seethawaka Prad eshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as 
territory) shall maintain a lodge or accommodation place (hereinafter referred to as premises) except 
under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law. 
 5. Anyone applying for a license under this By-law must apply  for it according to an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule of this By-law. 
 6. Submission of an application under the above clause may be made by registered mail, delivery or by 
e-mail as permitted. 
Short Title.
That a license must
be obtained.
Applying for a
License.

<!-- page 209 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 209A
 7. Anyone applying for a license under this By-law must have f ulﬁ lled the following conditions.
 (1) Constructions related to the premises should be constructe d in accordance with a plan approved 
for such purpose and with a certiﬁ cate of conformity.
 (2) Each room in the building should have separate toilet and bathroom facilities and the ﬂ oor 
should be tiled or cemented. 
 (3) Each building should have a living room, a designated management area, and adequate space 
for meals.
 (4) The provisions of a regulation applicable to the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
in the jurisdiction shall be such that there may be a suﬃ  cient number of double rooms or group 
rooms with suﬃ  cient space to be maintained remotely.
 (5) The licensee must have a legal right or possession of the property in question.
 (6) Each room should be equipped with facilities for the occupants to keep their belongings safe.
 (7) There should be generators and water storage facilities to  be utilized in case of emergency 
power outages and water connection failures.
 (8) Adequate space should be provided to park vehicles of the lodgers.
 (9) People with disabilities and persons with special needs should have access facilities in accordance 
with the recommended standards.
 8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application in respe ct of an application made under this By-law 
the Chairman;
  (1) Shall issue the relevant license for the premises to the applicant in accordance with the conditions 
set forth in Article 6.
  (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the  conditions mentioned in Article 6 are 
not complied with the relevant application.
 
 9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fees to be determined 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
  (2) It should be lawful for the council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspections 
in connection with the issuance of a license
 10. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license applies.
 
 11. All persons who were issued a license under this By-law sh all act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
 (01) The premises must be under a registered business name or it may be an incorporated entity.
 (02) If the authorized person is not a manager of the organiza tion, the identity information requested 
by the chairman regarding the manager should be provided, and t his information should be 
provided in each case of change.
Conditions for a
license.
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.

<!-- page 210 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 210A
 (03) The premises should never be used for any kind of activit ies or any illegal activities that may 
disturb others, such as holding ceremonies, singing songs using loudspeakers, or playing musical 
instruments.
 (04) Adequate parking space should be maintained so  that no v ehicles entering the premises are 
parked on public access.
 (05) Name, address, identity card number and contact phone num bers of all visitors to the lodge as 
well. In the case of a service candidate, If there is any information that may be speciﬁ ed from 
time to time to be maintained for health reasons or any other reason imposed By the Director 
of Health Services or By the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the area or By the Chairman or By 
law enforcement agencies in the area, all such information should be kept in writing. Relevant 
information should be preserved for three years, and security g uards on the premises should 
maintain close coordination with law enforcement agencies in the area.
 (06) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman from time to time under the instructions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or in any part of the t erritory or in any case where an 
epidemic has been declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of Diseases Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained subject to each such rule.
 (07) Accommodation rooms, all spaces for accommodation use, to ilets and bathrooms should be 
disinfected before being used by another lodger after being used by one lodger and toilets and 
bathrooms should be disinfected daily even while customers are present.
 (08) Whenever there is a risk of an epidemic in the area, the body temperature of each lodger 
who visits the premises should be measured before entering the premises by a person who is 
speciﬁ cally assigned for that purpose and everyone's hands and feet should be cleaned with 
sanitizer before entering the premises.
 (09) All reusable items such as pillowcases, sheets, blankets,  towels etc., which kept in each room 
for the use of the  customers should not be used for another cu stomer without washing and 
cleaning.
 (10) When the relevant room is a room for an individual it sho uld be not given to more than one 
adult or when the room is a double room it should be not given to more than two adults or 
when the room is a triple room it should be not given for more than three adults or when the 
room can be accommodated by a group the room should be not given for persons exceeding the 
maximum number of people that can be accommodated in the room when four square meters 
per person is considered as the minimum space and those over the age of ﬁ ve years should be 
considered as adults for the purpose in this subsection.
 (11) Beds inside a room should be maintained to the extent spe ciﬁ ed in subsection 10 above.
 (12) No one should be allowed to lodge with a child under any circumstances except by parents or 
legal guardians.
 (13) No one should be allowed to sleep in an open area other t han the rooms in the premises.
 (14) No person shall be allowed to stay on the premises if the y do not agree to verify their identity 
or are unable to verify their identity, and the information regarding all persons who are staying 
should be in a statement under their signature.

<!-- page 211 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 211A
 (15) When the room is not an air-conditioned room, all rooms s hould be well ventilated and allowed 
to be used after the doors and windows have been left open for some time.
 (16) When a regulation under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance comes into force 
in respect of any epidemic situation pertaining to the territory, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the provisions of that regulation.
 (17) Generators should be permanently installed to provide uni nterrupted power supply in the event 
of a power outage.
 (18) The water connection to the premises should be well maint ained and there should always be 
facilities to store adequate water.
 (19) Adequate staﬀ   should be employed on the premises and they should be subject ed to health 
checks as per the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. They should also be tested within 
a period of time recommended by the medical oﬃ  cer or within a period that can be described 
as clinical or epidemic.
 (20) Waste water, sewage discharged from the premises should b e diverted to the soakage pits, septic 
tank or central treatment unit according to the approved methods with the required slope and 
necessary measures should be taken to prevent contamination. A soakage pit should always be 
at least 15 m away from a water source.
 (21) Internal drains of the premises should be well drained an d disinfected twice a day.
 (22) (A) If the licensee provides cooked food on the premises to the lodgers;
 (I) All utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a s ubstance that does not 
emit any toxic substance, taste or odor, and shall be made of a stainless material.
 (II) All utensils and utensils used for cooking shall be of su ch a nature as to be easily 
cleaned.
 (III) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-corrosive materials 
with lids.
 (IV) All cooking utensils and equipment shall be of a usable c ondition.
 (V) Separate refrigeration and storage facilities shall be pro vided in the premises for 
storing goods used for food preparation and cooked food.
 (VI) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation should be thoroughly washed, cleaned 
and used.
 (VII) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement should be in place to ensure that all c ooked food 
on the premises is delivered to the lodgers without hazard, and  that persons with 
speciﬁ c tasks should be employed to regulate it.
 (VIII) Fish and meat brought in for serving should be stored i n a separate refrigerator in 
the premises and maintained at a temperature of about two degrees Celsius without 
being contaminated until used.
 (IX) All persons engaged in the work of serving food in the pr emises,
 (A) Should not touch food with your hands or ﬁ  ngers openly.
 (B) Money should not be used while engaging in any form of ser vice.
 (C) Utensils and gloves used for touching food should be in a good condition to 
be used.
 (D) A clean towel should be used to wipe both hands.
 (E) The bottom of a used cup, plate or other container should always be kept out 
of contact with any food.

<!-- page 212 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 212A
 (F) All utensils used for food serving should be kept clean an d in separate 
containers.
 (G) Employees should work to ensure that any of their work or a container will 
not in any way cause food contamination or germs to be spread in a container.
 (H) Must have an understanding of the hygiene requirements app licable to the 
food preparing process.
 (X) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman under the instructions of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been declared 
in the territory or in any case where an epidemic has been decl ared under the 
regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease s Ordinance, 
preparation, consumption and serving of food and work carried out by all persons 
should  be in accordance with the orders of the Chairman issued  under the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
the Public Health Inspector, in addition to the provisions of this By-laws.
 (XI) A speciﬁ  c place for serving and dine in should be located on the premi ses and 
maintained in an enclosed space with good ventilation or air conditioning.
 (XII) Hand washing should be facilitated before use. Adequate soap and sanitizer liquid 
should be kept and facilities for hand drying should be provided.
 (XIII) Tables for serving and dine in should be maintained ver y clean and should be 
disinfected after each serving, and the towels used should be kept clean.
 (23) Breathing etiquette and hand hygiene should be maintained  regularly in the premises.
 (24) Instead of placing menus on tables, they should be placed  so that the recipes are displayed on 
a screen as much as possible.
 (25) A health monitoring system should be set up for the emplo yees working and a process should 
be put in place to get the health advice they need.
 (26) Should not keep pets such as dogs or cats on the premises  in any way.
 (27) The Garbage collected in the premises should have dispose d in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented in the area by the council and according to the written law 
regarding waste management.
 (28) Accommodation should not be provided for anyone that you think may think being suﬀ ering 
from an infectious or epidemic disease.
 (29) If any lodger or an employee of the premises infected with a transmissible disease, infectious 
or skin disease, the licensee should inform the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and after informing 
all persons involved in the premises should act in accordance with the quarantine instructions 
given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or an authorized Public Health Inspector.
 (30) Once the premises have been subjected to the quarantine process, no one shall enter the premises 
for accommodation until the issuance of a certiﬁ cate of completion of  the quarantine period 
by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or  the Public Health Inspector and until the p remises have 
been completely disinfected.
 12. It shall be lawful for the Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the necessary samples to inspect the premises in 
accordance with the provisions of this By-law.

<!-- page 213 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 213A
 13. When the Chairman has recommended that the licensee should  enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into 
account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the  area, the licensee should enter into 
a statement of agreement with the Chairman and the Chairman sho uld send a copy to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health.
 14. (01) In the event of a violation of the provisions of this  By-law or in a manner contrary to the 
provisions of this By-law in a premises licensed under this By-law, the Chairman should hand 
over a notice to the licensee to be compliance with the By-law notifying a speciﬁ ed period not 
exceeding thirty days.
  (02) Upon submission of a notice under this section to the Li censee, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time on a reasonable request to grant an additional period to act in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The period which is gran ted so should be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
 15. The Chairman should cancel the relevant license in the eve nt that the licensee fails to comply with 
the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above.
 16. It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license obtained under this By-law or in violation of 
the provisions of the By-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable 
to a penalty under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. Further, after 
being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, and in the event of further breach of the law after a notice has 
been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, breach of the law must be subject to an 
additional ﬁ ne referred to in sub-section 122 (2) of the old Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 for 
each day in which they continue the breach of the law.
 17. The By-law relating to the regulation of lodges and lodgin g, which has been applied in accordance 
with sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard Bylaws Act No. 06 
of 1952 with eﬀ ect from the date on which this by- law comes into force, is n ot applicable to the 
Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area. . 
 18. Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By-law, this By-law,
  "Council" means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at present 
or the persons who perform the duties of that position,
  "Authorized Oﬃ   cer" means any oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha in writing,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who  is related to that post in the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area,
  “Lodges or accommodation places” are the places which provide  temporary accommodation for a 
person for a period of time,
  The “Basic Law” refers to the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, and
  "Reasonable time" refers to any time engaged in a licensed ac tivity or related activity. 
Clariﬁ cation

<!-- page 214 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 214A
 19. If there are variations between the Sinhala, Tamil and Eng lish texts of the By-law, then the Sinhala 
text will prevail. 
SCHEDULE
Application for a Trade License for the Year.......................
 1. Name of the applicant: -
 2. Personal Address: -
 3. National Identity Card Number: -
 4. Phone number; Mobile: - Fixed: -
 5. Nature of the business: -
 6. Start year: -
 7. Address of the place of business: -
 8. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 9. Assessment Number: -
 1. Number and date of the approved plan: -
 2. If the business name registration has been obtained, its re ference number: -
 3. The manager or agent of the place of business,
 I. Name and Personal Address: -
 II. National Identity Card Number: -
 III. Phone Number Mobile: - Fixed: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request that a trade license to be issued to me for the year ................ for the place where the business is 
located as mentioned above. I agree to the existing rules and regulations in this regard.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Signature of the Applicant
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a trade license in connection 
with the application as soon as possible.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend the issuance of license.
Observations: ..........................................................................................................................................
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Revenue Inspector
Variation between
texts

<!-- page 215 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 215A
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request your observation recommendations for the issua nce of a trade license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Qualiﬁ ed / not qualiﬁ ed in accordance with By-laws and other rules. I recommend / d o not recommend 
the issuance of a license.
Note: ................................................................................................................................................................
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.)
Observations: ...................................................................................................................................................
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW ON RESTAURANTS OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
 1. This By-law will be enacted to regularize and monitor the r estaurants, hotels and canteens which are 
preparing, selling and provide dine in facilities of foods such as bakery and other food productions 
as cooked food, tea, coﬀ ee and to repeal the By- Laws on Restaurants which have been a pplied  in 
accordance with Sub-section 1 of Section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard By-laws 
Act No. 06 of 1952 within the Seethawaka. Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
 2. This By-law is called the By-law on Restaurants of the Seet hawaka. Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 126(IX) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act. 
 4. Anyone within the territory of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the territory) 
shall not maintain restaurants, hotels, canteens and cafeterias  (hereinafter referred to as premises) 
which are preparing, selling and provide dine in facilities of foods such as bakery and other food 
productions as cooked food, tea, coﬀ ee except under a license obtained  from the Chairman under 
this By-law. 
 5. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application form 
prepared in accordance with the Schedule of this By-law. 
 6. Submission of an application under the above clause may be made by completing the relevant 
requirements and  by submitting through registered post, by hand, or by e-mail to the extent permitted 
by the Council.
Short Title
 
 
That a license
should be
obtained
Applying for a
License

<!-- page 216 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 216A
 7. Anyone applying for a license under this By-law must have f ulﬁ lled the following conditions. 
 (1) All constructions related to the premises should be constr uctions as per the plan approved 
under the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or under the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance and, 
 (A) The material used in all constructions shall be prepared i n such a way that the toxic 
material does not emit toxins and does not emit toxic gases and  all surfaces should be 
constructed not to be easily retained by organisms.
 
 (B) The internal layout should be designed with adequate space  to enable the service to be 
performed without interruption.
 (C) The food raw material and cooked food should be stored in a space designed with a safe 
preparation to prevent the ingress of toxins.
 (D) The premises shall be designed to check the hygienic condi tions of the internal food.
 (E) Disposal under the internal processing activities of the p remises shall be arranged with 
references that will not be returned in any way.
 (2) At the food processing area on the premises,
 (A) Floors and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and w ater-repellent material.
 
 (B) All surfaces shall be free from detergents and disinfectan ts which can be easily cleaned.
 (C) The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.
 (D) If there are windows and other openings, they should be co vered with insect repellent.
 (E) Absorbent fans shall be placed for easy ﬂ  ow of outside air and exhaust air.
 (3) With respect to the catering area on the premises,
 (A) Adequate space should be provided for customers to sit ind ividually and in groups.
 (B) When the relevant part of the catering area is an open spa ce to the environment, it should 
be well ventilated and inaccessible to birds and other animals.
 (C) Speciﬁ  c toilets shall be constructed for customers and shall be loca ted at a suﬃ  cient 
distance and in other directions with automatic closing doors.
 
 (D) If the catering area is an enclosed space, air conditioning or ventilation should be provided 
and fans as well as absorbing fans should be installed.
 (E) Adequate space should be provided for services to move foo d here and there.
 (F) Hand washing facilities should be provided before and afte r meals and promotional 
advertisements and guidelines should be aﬃ  xed.
 (G) Tables and chairs should be made of easy-to-clean and wate rproof material.
Conditions for a
license

<!-- page 217 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 217A
 (4) Ensure that air conditioners operate at adequate temperatu res when adequate ventilation or 
air conditioning is provided in the premises, and that all air conditioning systems should be 
airtight.
 (5) For those working on the premises,
 (A) If they are residing, the accommodation should have adequa te sanitary facilities and that 
place should be in a place separate from the food preparation, food production or raw 
material storage area.
 (B) A minimum of four square meters of space should be reserve d for one person to sleep 
while being a resident employee.
 (C) Separate toilet and bathroom facilities should be provided  for both men and women.
 (6) The internal structure of the premises should be designed so that customers can order food with 
adequate space with physical distance when required.
 (7) Facilities should be provided for persons with disabilitie s and persons with special needs to 
enter in accordance with the prescribed standards.
 (8) There should be adequate parking facilities for customers.
 (9) Automatic generators and water storage facilities should b e available in the event of a power 
outage of suﬃ  cient capacity to be utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water 
connection failure.
 
 (10) Internal drainage and eﬄ   uent discharge from the premises  shall be directed to a ditch or suction 
pit, exceeding 15 m from the water source.
 8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense under this By-law the Chairman;
 (1) Shall issue a license for the premises to the applicant in  accordance with the information 
contained in Article 6.
 (2) If the conditions mentioned in Article 6 are not complied with, the relevant application should 
be rejected with reasons.
 9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fees to be determined 
and declared annually by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
   (2) It should be lawful for the council to decide and charge  an inspection fee for site inspections  
  in connection with the issuance of a license
 10. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December 31st of the year in which the license applies.
 
 11. All persons licensed under this By-law shall act in accord ance with the following conditions herein.
 (1) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman from t ime to time under the instructions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or in any part of the t erritory or in any case where an 
epidemic has been declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of Diseases Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained subject to each such rule.
Issuing a license
Fees for a license
Validity period
Conditions
applicable to a
license

<!-- page 218 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 218A
 (2) Every person employed on the premises shall, in accordance  with the regulations made under 
the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, act in accordance with all orders made 
by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic 
is declared.
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the area o f territory, service should not be 
provided to all persons who visit the premises seeking services unless it is in accordance with 
the relevant health instructions issued.
 
  (4) Health safety instructions imposed by the Director Genera l of Health Services or the Medical
   O ﬃ   cer of Health or by the Chairman as per their instructions in the event of an epidemic or  
  risk of an epidemic in the area of territory, should be imple mented and the licensee should   
  be satisﬁ  ed of doing so.
  (5) All drains in the premises should be maintained in such a  way that they can be easily drained,
   and waste water, sewage discharged from the premises should be diverted to the soakage pits,
   septic tank or central treatment unit according to the appro ved methods and necessary measures
   should be taken to prevent contamination.
  (6) All toilets and washrooms on the premises should be clean ed regularly with disinfectant and
   proper arrangements should be made to ensure that they are b eing done so.
  (7) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises should be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily,
   and in case of any inconvenience during cleaning, sign board s should be kept in that place so
   that the customers can see them.
  (8) Drainage system should be free of retention of water  and  cleaned twice daily with disinfectants.
  (9) No drains, sewage pipes, or culverts on the premises shou ld be routed to any public drain or  
  outlying area.
 (10) The premises should be maintained in such a way that ther e is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
 (11) Adequate facilities should be in place to regulate the te mperature required for cooking and 
refrigeration, and records should be maintained to that eﬀ ect.
 (12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shou ld be maintained in accordance with 
the following requirements.
 (A) All utensils and equipment used in food preparation shall be made of non-absorbent 
materials that do not emit any toxic substances, ﬂ avors or odors and should be made of 
stainless materials.
 (B) All equipment and tools should be of a nature as to be eas ily cleaned.
 
 (C) Containers used for disposal of waste should be made of me tal or non-corrosive materials 
with lids.
 (D) All equipment, tool maintained must be of a condition suit able to be used.
 (13) If food is to be distributed outside the premises during production, there must be a designated 
area for it.

<!-- page 219 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 219A
 (14) Containers used for food distribution should be such that  they can be distributed in a manner 
that does not harm the taste of the food.
 (15) Premises should have separate refrigeration facilities for storing goods used for food preparation 
and cooked food or similar.
 (16) Premises should have water storage facilities and the rel evant containers should be stainless.
 (17) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation should be thoroughly washed, cleaned and used.
 (18) Water used in the premises should be kept in non-hazardous containers free from being polluted.
 (19) The ice used in the premises should be made from drinking  water.
 (20) Pipelines carrying water within the premises should be maintained so that they can be separately 
identiﬁ ed from any other pipeline.
 (21) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement should be in place to ensure that all cooked food on the premises 
is delivered to the lodgers without hazard, and that persons wi th speciﬁ c tasks should be 
employed to regulate it.
 (22) Fish and meat brought in for serving should be stored in a separate refrigerator on the premises 
and should always be kept at a temperature of two degrees without being contaminated Celsius 
until used.
 (23) Relevant prices for all food items for sale on-premises m ust be displayed under the sample or 
otherwise.
 (24) If an epidemic has been declared under the Quarantine and  Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
within the territory and regulations applicable to it or if there is a requirement that all persons 
in the territory should wear masks when entering the society du e to the risk of any epidemic 
disease, no person without wearing a mask should be allowed to enter the premises for dealings.
 (25) All food items kept on the premises must be kept safe fro m contact with anyone outside the 
premises and the ordered food must be served after the food has  been ordered. No food or 
leftovers so served should be kept for resale, and if there are any leftovers of the served food, 
they should be given to the person who ordered it to be taken.
 (26) Food for sale on the premises should not be kept in such a way as to cause contamination, and 
all activities such as  serving food, packing for transportatio n, etc. should be carried out in a 
proper manner using appropriate gloves.
 (27) By everyone involved in serving, consuming, or packing fo od on the premises;
 (A) Should not touch food with your hands or ﬁ  ngers openly.
 (B) Money should not be used while engaging in any form of ser vice.
 (C) Utensils and gloves used for touching food should be in a good condition to be used.
 (D) A clean towel should be used to wipe both hands.
 (E) The bottom of a used cup, plate or other container should always be kept out of contact 
with any food.

<!-- page 220 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 220A
 (F) All utensils used for food serving should be kept clean an d in separate containers.
 (G) Employees should work to ensure that any of their work or a container will not in any 
way cause food contamination or germs to be spread in a container.
 (H) What is taken for food wrapping should not be a source of food poisoning in any way.
 
 (28) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman under  the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been declared in the territory or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, all persons engaged preparation, consumption, serving and 
packing of food should maintain the premises in accordance with the orders of the Chairman 
issued under the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
or the Public Health Inspector , in addition to the provisions of this By-laws.
 (29) Facilities should be provided to pre-ordered and take -aw ay food as much as possible, a separate 
window on the premises should be maintained for that purpose and instead of placing menus on 
tables, they should be placed so that the recipes are displayed on a screen as much as possible.
 (30) (A) Any work related to the production of food in the pre mises shall not be carried out in such 
a manner as to open it to a public road or public space, or to open air from such a public 
road or open space to the public, and food should be prepared i n a specially enclosed 
space within the premises.
  (B) Chimneys and suction fans shall be installed so that hot air and steam generated in the 
enclosed space for food production can ﬂ ow easily.
  (C) Noise from any approved activity in food production shall  be in such a manner as not to 
disturb the public or consumers in any way.
 (31) Tables for serving and dine in on the premises should be kept very clean and disinfected after 
each serving and use and the towels used should be kept clean.
 (32) Surfaces in the premises that come in contact with custom ers should be cleaned regularly with 
disinfectant.
 (33) All cooked food that can be easily contaminated on the pr emises should be kept at a temperature 
not exceeding four degrees Celsius or not less than sixty degrees Celsius except in the following 
cases. Occasions where this is not applicable should be as follows:
 (A) In cases where the food is not exposed or displayed for sa le for a whole time of more 
than two hours or
 (B) When the preparation and presentation are to be made withi n an short period of time.
 (34) All cooked food as pastries, patties, savories, pizza and  similar food contain meat or ﬁ sh that 
is normally sold on the premises and consumed in the condition which the food is sold should 
be kept in containers with covers.
 (35) Milk for use on the premises should be kept in a refriger ator at a temperature not exceeding 
seven degrees Celsius.

<!-- page 221 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 221A
 (36) Suﬃ   cient hand washing facilities with sanitizers and hand drying facilities should be provided 
in the processing area of the premises and in the dine in areas and adequate lighting should be 
maintained in the premises.
 (37) Pesticides kept in the premises should be kept in a seale d container at a speciﬁ c place in the 
premises.
 (38) The area for staﬀ   facilities in the premises should be spacious and with necess ary sanitary 
facilities and toilets for both men and women should be maintained in accordance with sanitary 
standards.
 (39) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, it should be maintained in such a way that it 
does not aﬀ ect the things used in the premises in any way and thus does not cause contamination 
of food.
 (40) Cleaning activities in premises should be carried out on a regular basis subject to the following:
 (A) A speciﬁ c task assignment should be maintained regarding activities su ch as the 
satisfactorily carrying out all parts of the institution and cleaning prioritizing the speciﬁ c 
areas described in this By-law and application of disinfectants
 (B) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the wo rk under (A) above is carried out 
precisely.
 (C) Appropriate cleaning should be done to prevent dust during  food preparation, serving, 
packing and consumption on the premises.
 (D) All utensils used in the serving and consumption of food s hall be maintained in such a 
manner that no portions of cooked food remain.
 (E) The water used for cleaning, detergent disinfectants shoul d be washed so that the does 
not remain on the dishes in any way.
 (F) The ceiling, walls, etc. of the premises shall be kept fre e from any insects.
 (41) Pets such as dogs and cats should not be kept on the prem ises in any way.
 (42) Employees working on the premises should be trained in fo od hygiene and should be subjected 
to medical examinations within a speciﬁ ed period of time to ensure that they are in suitable 
health condition. Relevant records should also be maintained at  the premises so that they 
can be inspected at any time. Also the health check-ups for the m should be both clinical and 
epidemiological.
 (43) A health monitoring system should be set up for employees  employed on the premises and a 
process should be put in place to get the health advice they need.
 (44) The waste generated on the premises should be maintained in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the council and in accordance  with the written rules 
applicable to it.
 (45) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the licensee himself, the Public Health 
Inspector in charge of the relevant area should be informed and  should act accordingly in 
accordance with the instructions given by him.

<!-- page 222 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 222A
 (46) Everyone working on the premises should not engage in coo king packing, serving of food or 
work without necessarily cleaning after using the toilet and af ter touching dirt, and everyone 
who engage in those type of work should wear a clean and pocket- free apron.
 (47) Those who work as cashiers on the premises should clean their hands frequently using sanitizers.
 (48) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities should be provided on the premises.
 (49) The number of persons that can be provided with dine in f acilities in the premises should be 
displayed on the premises.
 (50) In the event of an outbreak of any instruction in the community to use gloves or masks in the 
community, if any person entering the premises disposes of the mask or gloves they are wearing 
on the premises, the masks or gloves should be disposed to closed containers speciﬁ ed on the 
premises. Those waste should be disposed in accordance with the waste management program 
and instructions implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes.
 (51) Anyone entering the premises for dine in should clean the ir hands from the area speciﬁ cally 
designated for this purpose.
 (52) Everyone who dine in and take-away food from the premises  should maintain proper distance.
 (53) Everyone who dine in on the premises should be as hygieni c as possible and always wear head 
coverings, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate hygienic clothing.
 (54) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected  to be infected with such a vector 
or infected with wounds, skin infections or any other infectious disease should not be employed 
on the premises.
 (55) Everyone dine in on the premises should not engage in act ivities such as smoking, spitting, 
coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose, which can cause food contamination.
 (56) Under no circumstances should anyone on the premises be allowed to dine in with any indication 
that they may be suﬀ ering from an infectious or transmissible disease.
 (57) If any person comes to the premises for dine in or an emp loyee of the premises infected with a 
transmissible disease, infectious or skin disease, the licensee should inform the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health and after informing all persons involved in the premi ses should act in accordance 
with the quarantine instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or an authorized Public 
Health Inspector.
 (58) Once the premises have been subjected to the  quarantine process, no one shall enter the 
premises for dine in until the issuance of a certiﬁ cate of completion of the quarantine period 
by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector and until the pr emises have 
been completely disinfected.
 
 (59) The licensee must take every step to maintain the premise s in such a way that it does not cause 
food contamination  during food consumption in any manner. 
 
 (60) Relevant instructions should be prominently displayed on the premises and should act upon 
accordingly so that everyone who dine in on the premises can learn about the health precautions 
that take place on the premises. 

<!-- page 223 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 223A
 (61) The licensee must have provided all information about the  employees working on the premises 
to the Chairman. 
 12.  (1) It shall also be lawful for the Chairman to grade a premises relevant to this By-law in accordance
    with the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health, taking into account the eﬃ  cacy 
    of the conditions under this By-law. 
   
 (2) When the Chairman has graded the premises under this section, the grade of the premises for 
the year relevant to the license and a certiﬁ cate issued by the Chairman shall be displayed on 
the premises for the public to see. 
 13. It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any ot her oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the necessary samples to inspect the premises in 
accordance with the provisions of this By-law. 
 14. When the Chairman has recommended that the licensee should  enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into 
account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the  area, the licensee should enter into 
a statement of agreement with the Chairman and the Chairman sho uld send a copy to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
 15. When an order is in force under the Quarantine and Prevent ion of Disease Ordinance in respect of 
any epidemic situation relating to the territory, the premises shall be maintained in accordance with 
all the provisions of that Order. 
 
 16. It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any ot her oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the necessary samples and to inspect the premises 
in accordance with the provisions of this By-law. 
 17. (1) In the event of a violation of the provisions of this By-law or in a manner contrary to the 
provisions of this By-law in a premises licensed under this By-law, the Chairman should hand 
over a notice to the licensee to be compliance with the By-law notifying a speciﬁ ed period not 
exceeding thirty days. 
 
  (2) Upon submission of a notice under this section to the Lic ensee, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time on a reasonable request to grant an additional period to act in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The period which is gran ted so should be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
 
 18. The Chairman should cancel the relevant license in the eve nt that the licensee fails to comply with 
the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above.
 
 19. It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license obtained under this By-law or in violation of 
the provisions of the By-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable 
to a penalty under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. Further, after 
being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, and in the event of further breach of the law after a notice has 
been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, breach of the law must be subject to an 
additional ﬁ ne referred to in sub-section 122 (2) of the old Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 for 
each day in which they continue the breach of the law.
 Grading premises
On-site 
inspection and
obtaining samples
Power to enter
the premises
Cancellation of
the license
Penalty

<!-- page 224 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 224A
 20. The By-laws applicable to sub-section 1 of section 3 of th e Local Government Institutions Standard 
By-laws Act No. 06 of 1952, which came into force prior to the eﬀ ective date of this By-law, do not 
apply to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area.
 
 21. Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By-law;
  “Council” means the Seethawaka  Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of  the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at present 
or the persons who perform the duties of that position,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the the Pradeshiya Sabha or oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health working in the territory of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Licensee" means an institution or a person who has obtained a license under this By-law,
  "Authorized Oﬃ   cer" means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at tha t 
time.
  "Contamination" refers to the entry or occurrence of any cont amination substance in a food substance,
  "Disinfectants" reduce the amount of microorganisms in the en vironment by chemicals or physical 
means that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food.
  "Food hygiene" refers to all the conditions, steps and practi ces to ensure the safety and suitability of 
food at all times in the food chain.
  A "hazard" is a biological, chemical, or condition that is li kely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects.
  "Food safety" also means the responsibility of the consumer t o prepare, process, sell, store, transport, 
and not cause any harm to the consumer during or after dine in.
  "Food" refers to the products used to prepare  food and food being prepared for sale in a institution 
maintained for human consumption,
  "Reasonable time" refers to any time engaged in a licensed ac tivity or related work,
  "Basic Law" refers to the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 .
 22. If there are variations between the Sinhala, English and T amil texts in this By-law, then the Sinhala 
text will prevail. 
Clariﬁ cation
Variation between
texts

<!-- page 225 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 225A
FIRST SCHEDULE
Application for  Trade License for the Year.......................
 1. Name of the applicant: -
 2. Personal Address: -
 3. National Identity Card Number: -
 4. Telephone Number: - 
 5. Nature of the business: -
 6. Start year: -
 7. Address of the place of business: -
 8. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 9. Assessment Number: -
 10. If the business has obtained name registration, its reference number: -
 11. Information of the manager or agent of the place of business,
 I. Name and Personal Address: -
 II. National Identity Card Number: -
 III. Phone Number Mobile: - Fixed: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request that a trade license to be issued to me for the year ................ for the place where the industry, 
business mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules and regulations on this regard.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Signature of the Applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Secretary 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend granting the license.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and  recommendations fo r the issuance of a license in relation to 
the application mentioned on the back.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 226 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 226A
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with By-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application. (If 
not recommended, state the reason.)
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
BY LAW ON MOBILE TRADE IN THE SEETHAWAKA PRADESHIYA SABHA
 1. This By-law is enacted to make provisions for ancillary mat ters, including the supervision of traders 
engaged in mobile trade and to repeal the By-laws on Mobile Tra de which have been applied in 
accordance with Sub-section 1 of Section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard By-laws 
Act No. 06 of 1952 within the authority area of the Seethawaka.Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law on mobile trade of the S eethawaka. Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 126(X) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-section 122 of the said Act. 
 4. A person who sells any commodity including goods or food wh ile visiting the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha  area (hereinafter referred to as authority area) shall be obtained a license from the Chairman 
under this By-law. 
   
 5. (1) Every person applying for a license under section 3 above shall apply for it through an application 
form obtained from the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 (2) The fee to be charged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for issuing an application for a license under 
this By-law shall be as determined by the Council.
 
 6. The Chairman shall not issue a license in this regard unles s all the persons applying for a license 
under this By-law as a mobile trader have fulﬁ lled the following: 
 (1) The identities of the trader or persons engaged in the mob ile trade shall be veriﬁ  ed in an 
acceptable manner. 
 (2) If a bicycle, tricycle, cart, or motor vehicle is used for  commercial purposes, evidence must 
be provided that it was designed or prepared in such a way that  it can be used for such 
purposes. 
Short Title
Obtaining a
License
Applying for a
License
Conditions to issue
a License

<!-- page 227 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 227A
 (3) If loudspeakers are used in the mobile trade, it should be ascerta ined that a license has 
been obtained from the relevant competent authority in the even t that a relevant license is 
required. 
 
 (4) An outline of the areas intended for mobile trade within t he authority area shall be provided. 
 
 (5) If cooked food is sold in the mobile trade, all persons in volved in the handling the relevant 
food shall have a certiﬁ cate of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the area in accordance with the 
format set out in this Schedule of the By-laws.
 
 7. The fee to be charged for a license issued under this By-la w shall be a proportion to the period 
for which the license is requested and the fee shall be determi ned and declared by the Sabha by a 
resolution. 
   
 8. The maximum validity period of a license issued under this by- law shall expire on 31st December of 
the year in which the license is issued and the relevant license may be issued for a period for which 
the license is applied for in the calendar year.
 
 9. Every mobile trader shall keep the relevant license in his possession. 
 10. A license issued under this By-law shall be valid only for the period of its issuance unless it is revoked 
in accordance with the provisions of this By-law.
 
 11. All persons licensed under this By-law shall conduct trade in accordance with the following conditions.
 (1) There shall be no noise or air pollution to the public due  to the mobile trade or its publicity.
 
 (2) (i) Any waste generated during the moble trade shall not b e disposed to the surrounding 
environment; all waste should be handed over in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha in the area.
  (ii) If the licensee manages the waste generated by himself, a certiﬁ cate in that regard shall 
be submitted and consent obtained from the Public Health Inspec tor of the authority 
area. 
 (3) The trade shall be in accordance with the instructions and criteria put in place by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event that 
there is a risk of an epidemic in the whole or part of the territory of Sri Lanka. 
 
 (4) The license issued under this By-law shall be kept in the possession of the trader at all times 
and shall be submitted for inspection at any time upon request by the Chairman or an authorized 
oﬃ  cer, a police oﬃ  cer.
 (5) In the event of any outbreak of any contagious disease or contagious disease relating to the 
regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention Ordinance and any part of Sri Lanka 
within or within the authority area of Sri Lanka, the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health shall be notiﬁ ed 
in that regard. The licensee must act in accordance with the instructions and the licensee must 
be satisﬁ ed that his employees are acting accordingly.
Fee for a License
 
Conditions 
Applicable to a
License

<!-- page 228 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 228A
 (6) 1. If cooked food is sold under the mobile trade,
 (i) All utensils and tools used for selling food shall be made  of a substance which 
does not emit any toxic substance, odor or taste. Such equipment and tools shall be 
made of non-abrasive and non-corrosive materials and shall be made of materials 
that are resistant to continuous cleaning and disinfection.
 (ii) All equipment and tools shall be designed in such a manne r that antiseptics can be 
used for easy cleaning to prevent unhygienic.
 (iii) If frozen material is sold, it shall be ﬁ  tted with compatible storage and temperature 
measuring or temperature recording equipment.
 (iv) Separate enclosed waste bins shall be maintained for the collection of waste 
accumulated during trade. However, when disposing of items such as face masks, 
one should keep sealed  containers so that they do not mix with other waste.
  (v) All equipment and tools used shall be in good condition.
  (vi) Packaging should be designed and maintained to prevent f ood contamination and
   to prevent food from pests during the sale.
  (vii) Whatever equipment is used to serve food to the consumer they shall not be prepared
   in manner that cannot be reused.
  (viii) Food kept for sale shall not be contaminated in any wa y.
  (ix) Catching food shall not be done using money and a separate person may be employed
   for money transactions.
  (x) Metal grip should be used to hold food.
 (7) The mobile trade shall not disturb the movement of passeng ers or vehicles in any way.
 
 (8) Trade shall be conducted only within a territory valid for  the license and in no way exceed the 
permitted period speciﬁ ed in the license.
 
 (9) A person suﬀ  ering from or infecting or infecting any person with any form of contagious disease 
shall not engage in trade or trade-related assistance and shall  maintain the sanitized material 
to be utilized when necessary.
 
 (10) The meat of any animal subject to the Slaughter Ordinance  shall not be sold under the mobile
  Trade.
 
 (11) No mobile trader should stay in one place for long period s of time.
 
 12. Even if there is a license issued under this By-law, the C hairman shall, on the advice of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health, determine in or within the authority area or a ny part of it, if there is a risk of 
contagious or contagious disease spreading.
 (i) The activity may be permanently prohibited under a license  issued.
 (ii) Areas of trade may be restricted under the license issued .
 (iii) Operation under the license may be suspended. 

<!-- page 229 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 229A
 13. It is legal for the Chairman or an authorized oﬃ  cer to obtain a sample of a food, commodity or item 
sold by a mobile trader at its price, and no licensee shall refuse or interfere with it. 
    
 14. If a person engages in mobile trade violates the provision s of this By-laws and disregards the 
instructions given to comply with the By-laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to  revoke a license 
issued under Article 3 of this By-laws.
 15. It is an oﬀ  ense to engage in the mobile trade without obtaining a license  under this By-law and to 
engage in the trade without a valid license, and after being convicted by a Magistrate's Court, he shall 
be subjected to a penalty under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
 16. The By-law relating to Mobile Trade, which is applicable t o sub- section 1 of section 3 of the Local 
Government Institutions Standard By-laws Act No. 06 of 1952, which is eﬀ ective before the eﬀ ective 
date of this By-law, does not apply to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area.
 17. Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this by- law, this By-law,
  "Pradeshiya Sabha" means Seethawaka. Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the post of Chairman of  the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha 
at present or the person who performs the function of that post.
  A "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" is a person who holds that post in a particular Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
division within the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha at that time.
  A "Public Health Inspector" is a person who holds the post of  a Public Health Inspector in a division 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha area at that time.
  "Contamination" refers to the entry or formation of a palatab le substance into a food or food background
  “Food hygiene” includes all the conditions, steps and practic e necessary to ensure the safety and 
suitability of food at all stages of the food chain;
  "Mobile trade" means the trade of goods, food, or any other c ommodity by oneself or with the help 
of an animal, or by car, cart, bicycle, or tricycle.
  "Motor vehicle" also means the deﬁ  nition given in the Motor Vehicles Ordinance.
 18. If there is a discrepancy between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this By-law then the Sinhala 
text will prevail.
 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE
Application for  Trade License for the Year.......................
 01. Name of the applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Telephone Number: - 
Obtaining Samples
Penalty for
violation
Defnitions
Inconsistency
between Texts

<!-- page 230 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 230A
 05. Nature of Trade: -
 06. Grama Niladhari Division: -
I do hereby certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request that a trade license be issued to me for the year ... ............. for the industry and place of trade 
mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules on this.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Signature of the Applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to give me your observations and recommendations as soon as possible for the issuance 
of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back page.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Secretary 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend granting the license.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request your observations and  recommendations for the  issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back page.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with By-laws and other rules and regulations. I recommend the issuance of licenses.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuaning a permit for the relev ant place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.)
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health

<!-- page 231 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 231A
SCHEDULE
 
Medical certiﬁ cate issued to Mobile traders in the …………………………..
Pradeshiya Sabha area
I.......................................... Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health ....................................... area do hereby certify  that     
Mr.  /  Mrs.............................................. beare r of National Identity Card No. ............................... ........... 
was physically examined after a proper laboratory test revealed  that he / she has not exposed an infectious 
disease or any illness that could pose a future threat to food safety. I also certify that he / she has suﬀ ered 
from skin infections, ulcers or diarrhea.
Date :- …………………………….
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
 (Oﬃ  cial seal)
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW ON THE MAINTENANCE OF LAUNDRY AND WASHING PLACES
 1. This By-law is enacted to regulate and supervise the operat ion of laundry and washing places 
maintained and to repeal the by- law on the Maintenance of Laundry and Washing Places which has 
been applied in accordance with sub-section (1) of Section 3 of  the Local Government Institutions 
Standard By-laws Act No. 06 of 1952 within the authority area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
 
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law on the Maintenance of La undry and Washing Places in the 
Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
 
 4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawaka Pradesh iya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall operate a laundry or a washing center (hereinafter referred to as a premise) 
except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law.
 
 5. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this By-law.
 
 6. Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council.
 
 7. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are fulﬁ lled. 
 (1) If the constructions relevant to the premises are permanen t constructions, all such constructions 
shall be constructions in accordance with the provisions of the Urban Development Authority 
Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance. 
Photo
Short Title
Applying for a
License
Conditions for 
a License

<!-- page 232 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 232A
 (2) There shall be separate room facilities for temporary stor age of cloths brought for cleaning in 
the premises till cleaning.
 (3) Accepting cloths for cleaning on the premises and returnin g the cleaned cloths shall not be 
done by one person at the same time.
 (4) When washing, drying and reprocessing of clothes take  pla ce in the same premises,
 (A) Drainage related to the premises shall be maintained in su ch a way that it is easily drained 
and wastewater shall be diverted to a septic tank, soakage pit or central treatment unit 
according to approved procedures.
 (B) Machines used for washing and drying clothes shall be in g ood working condition, 
properly ﬁ tted to the ﬂ oor and set up so that the noise generated during operation do es 
not spread to the outside.
 (C) The electrical circuit of the premises shall be one which is ﬁ xed permanently and the 
plugs shall be properly ﬁ tted for the required electrical capacity.
 (D) The water discharged during washing shall be ﬁ  nally disposed of without any outﬂ ow.
 (E) Windows and openings shall be ﬁ  tted out to allow light and air to enter the premises 
easily, and if not shall be artiﬁ cially lighted and air conditioned.
 (F) Tables and other equipment for ironing work shall be set u p at a suﬃ  cient distance so 
that they can be used properly.
 (G) Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided for the emp loyees working on the premises 
and adequate latrine facilities shall be provided for both males and females.
 (H) There shall be hygienic containers to keep the cleaned clo thes temporarily and they shall 
not contact with the dirty clothes in any way.
 (I) There shall be rooms or partitions with doors that can be closed to keep clothes after 
ironing until they are returned.
 (J) The interior of the premises shall be designed to maintain a proper distance when required.
 (5) When washing clothes outside the premises, a public water source shall not be used for that 
purpose and the applicant shall be certiﬁ ed,
 (A) That washing clothes will be done at a place speciﬁ  ed for that purpose and that the place 
will be conﬁ rmed from time to time;
 (B) That no chemical used in cleaning clothes are released int o any water source after use. 
 
 (6) When washing clothes is done outside the premises, necessa ry facilities shall be provided to 
ensure that dirty clothes are not mixed or contact with cleaned clothes in any way while carrying 
dirty clothes outside the premises to wash and bringing them back after cleaning. 
 (8) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers. 
 
 (9) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of suﬃ   cient capacity shall be available to be 
utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply failure. 

<!-- page 233 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 233A
 (10) Internal drainage and sewage disposal in the premises sha ll be directed to a septic tank or 
soakage pit, and if the septic tank or soakage pit is in a water source, it shall be more than 15 
meters away. 
 8. Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lic ense made under this By-law, the Chairman;
 
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the prem ises if it is in accordance with the 
conditions mentioned in Section 7. 
 
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it i s not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7. 
 
 9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
 
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections in
   connection with the issuance of a license. 
 10. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license is related.
 
 11. All persons received a license under this By-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
 (1) The clothes handed over for cleaning shall be kept in a co ntainer in a speciﬁ c room on the 
premises until it is cleaned. 
 
 (2) Disposal of any chemicals used to clean clothes on the pre mises shall be done in accordance 
with the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or  the Public Health Inspector.
 
 (3) Drains or pipes which discharge waste water due to cleanin g of clothes in the premises shall 
be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit so that it does not open on the ground surface.
 
 (4) Latrines for employees on the premises shall be kept clean  and disinfected.
 
 (5) If burning charcoal is used for ironing, they shall be tho roughly extinguished after use, collected 
in a separate container and disposed as waste.
 
 (6) If there are residential employees on the premises;
 (A) Separate residential facilities shall be provided under ad equate sanitation facilities.
 (B) The area for the purpose of accommodation and dining on th e premises shall be kept 
separate from the area where the licensing process takes place. 
 
 (7) A person suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infecte d or such a vector 
or an infected person shall not be employed on the premises in any way and the license holder 
shall be always satisﬁ ed that such person is not employed.
 (8) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations 
made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms.
issuing a license
Fee for a License

<!-- page 234 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 234A
 (9) It is lawful for the Chairman to order, on the instruction s of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
to carry out all or some of the following actions in connection  with the conduct of license- 
related functions in the premises in the event of the implementation of regulations relating to 
any epidemic situation in the authority area under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the regulations made under it.
 (A) That the activities on the premises carried out under the license shall be temporarily 
suspended for a certain period of time.
 (B) That work shall be carried out keeping speciﬁ  c social distancing while working on the 
premises.
 (C) A speciﬁ c procedure shall be followed in handing over dirty clothes, cleaning and returning.
 (D) The health guidelines applicable to the activities on the premises shall be displayed in a 
manner visible to the public and employees.
 (E) That shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Ch airman stating that the premises 
will be maintained in accordance with the health regulations applicable from time to time.
 
 (F) Employees working on the premises shall engage in work wea ring gloves and masks for 
speciﬁ c purposes.
 
 (G) That the premises shall be disinfected.
 
 12. Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed to seal ed garbage bins speciﬁ cally maintained 
for that purpose, and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises, all of them shall only 
be disposed into foot-operated  containers which shall be maint ained on the premises for only that 
purpose. 
 13. Waste collected on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program 
implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 14. Each premises shall display this By-law and the license ob tained thereon or a copy thereof. 
 15. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any other authorize d Public Health Inspector or any other 
authorized oﬃ  cer to enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect whether the premises is in 
accordance with the provisions of this By-law. 
 16. (1) In the event of being against this By-law or violation  of the provisions of this By-law in a 
premises licensed under this by- law, the Chairman shall submit to the license holder a notice 
informing a speciﬁ c time period not exceeding thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
 
  (2) After submitting a notice under this Section to the licen se holder, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be in 
accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period gr anted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
 
 17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder fails to be comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above. 
18.  It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this By-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this By-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, shall 
That the license
shall be displayed.
Power to enter a
premises
Cancellation of the
license

<!-- page 235 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 235A
be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 of the 
said Ordinance. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even 
after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject 
to an additional penalty referred to in that sub-section for each day of such violation. 
 19. The By-law the Maintenance of Laundry and Washing Places, which is applicable to sub-section 1 
of section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard By-l aws Act No. 06 of 1952, which is 
eﬀ ective before the eﬀ ective date of this by- law, does not apply to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha 
area.
 
 20. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By- law;
  “Council” means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant  to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health  relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
 21. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
FIRST SCHEDULE
Application for a License for the Year.......................
 01. Name of the applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Telephone number: - 
 05. Start year: -
 06. Address of the laundry or the washing place: -
 07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 08. Assessment Number: -
 09. Approved building plan number and date: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year .................
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Signature of the Applicant
Penalty
Defnition
Inconsistency
between Texts

<!-- page 236 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 236A
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations as soon as possible for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Secretary 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend granting the license.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Chairman,
I recommend issuing a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I approve the issuanance of a license.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Chairman
––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW ON HAIRDRESSING CENTRES
 1. This By-law is enacted to regulate and supervise hairdressi ng centers and barber shops and to repeal 
the By-law on Hairdressing Centres which has been applied in ac cordance with sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard By-laws Act No. 06 of 1952 in the authority 
area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law on Hairdressing Centers of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(xxiii) of the said Act. 
 4. No person within the jurisdiction of  the Seethawaka Prades hiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain a hairdressing center or bar ber shop (hereinafter referred to as a 
premise) except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law. 
 5. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this By-law. 
Short Title
Legal power
Applying for a
License

<!-- page 237 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 237A
 6. Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
 7. All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are fulﬁ lled. 
 (1) Constructions relevant to the premises shall be constructions in accordance with the provisions of 
the Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Urban Development 
Ordinance.
 
 (2) The premises shall be maintained under its own business na me. 
 (3) Proof that the employees who work on the premises are skilled in hairdressing shall be submitted.
 (4) Constructions on the premises shall be well constructed of  permanent construction materials 
and in good and health safety condition.
 (5) Space set apart for providing services for each customer s hall be minimum of 2.25 square 
meters and there shall be adequate space proportionate to the number of customers who are to 
be provided services at the same time.
 (6) For any customer who arrive therein in anticipation of ser vices; shall be provided with adequate 
space to be seated conveniently with at least 1.5 meters distance from the place where another 
customer is already being served.
 (7) All walls of the premises shall be not less than 2.7 meter s high and shall be painted.
 (8) Each part of the premises shall be ﬁ  nished with a ceiling or concrete slab at a height of not less 
than 2.7 meters from the ground level.
 (9) The premises shall be air-conditioned or have windows that  can be opened suﬃ  ciently to allow 
air to ﬂ ow in from the outside.
 (10) Premises shall be ﬁ  nished to receive light ﬁ nely.
 (11) Drinking water for use in the premises shall be adequatel y supplied and shall equipped with 
water storage facilities.
 (12) If required clients shall be provided with the facilities  to take a shower after setting their hair.
 (13) A separate part of the premises shall be maintained  for washing the equipment and containers 
used for the customers.
 (14) There shall be adequate latrine facilities for the employ ees and customers of the institution and 
it shall be well constructed and hygienic.
 (15) Speciﬁ  c equipment shall be ﬁ xed to wash hair of the customers, and shall be maintained by 
cleaning  and disinfecting after use by one person before use by another.
 
 (16) Adequate measures shall be taken to ensure that wastewate r discharged from the premises does 
not ﬂ ow into public drains or open spaces, and shall be properly di rected to a septic tank or 
soakage pit. 
Conditions for 
a License

<!-- page 238 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 238A
 (17) A septic tank or soakage pit relevant to the premises sha ll not be open to the outside and if 
there is a water source it shall be constructed at a distance of at least 15 meters away. 
 (18) There shall be a separate area on the premises with adequ ate facilities for the customers waiting 
for services. 
 (19) The electrical circuit in the premises shall be checked b y a professional and certiﬁ ed to be safe 
from leakage. 
 (20) A separate place shall be maintained to clean the equipment and c ontainers used in the 
premises. 
 8. Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lic ense made under this By-law, the Chairman;
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the prem ises if it is in accordance with the 
conditions mentioned in Section 7.
 
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it i s not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7. 
 9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
 
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license. 
 10. If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license is related.
 11. All persons received a license under this By-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared  applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations 
made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms.
 
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all orders issued by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of an outbreak of an 
epidemic being declared under the regulations made under the Qu arantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance. 
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of a risk of an epidemic in the authority area, service facilities 
shall not be provided on the premises unless all persons seeking services come to the premises 
in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
 (4) Health safety instructions shall be implemented properly o n the premises as directed by the 
Director General  of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman on 
their instructions, in case of any outbreak or risk of any epidemic in the authority area to protect 
from it, and  the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
issuing a license
Fee for a License
Validity period of a
license

<!-- page 239 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 239A
 (5) Every time engages in haircuts, hair colorings, beards and  hair removal of the customers, 
everyone who engages in such activities shall wear face masks and gloves as much  as possible.
 
 (6) A document containing information relevant to each custome r receiving the services shall be 
maintained.
 (7) Customers shall be encouraged to bring their own cloths to  cover the upper body when service 
is given, otherwise the used cloths shall not be used for anoth er customer until it has been 
washed, dried and cleaned after used for one customer.
 (8) As recommended by the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health, Public Health Inspector all equipment, 
combs, brushes, etc., used for the activities including haircut s shall not be used for another 
customer unless disinfected after used for one customer.
 (9) The windows shall be kept open for good circulation of air in the premises, and if air conditioned, 
all  air conditioners shall be kept constant at the prescribed temperature.
 (10) The ﬁ  lters of the air conditioners in the premises shall be regularly cleaned and maintained.
 (11) The relevant service shall be provided only after  the ha nds have been cleaned with soap or 
sanitizer before providing the service to the customer.
 (12) When working on the premises, the service shall not be provided to a customer without adequate 
cleaning prior to service after the use of toilets or after contact with any contaminants.
 (13) When serving the customers on the premises, every service  provider shall wear an apron and 
it shall be of very clean condition.
 (14) Dust and hair shall be swept and removed after each servi ce on the premises, and all shall be 
temporarily disposed into  a sealed garbage bin.
 (15) Floor, chairs, and tables on the premises shall be cleane d daily with disinfectant before starting 
work.
 (16) No person shall use the service area of the premises for eating or any other purpose.
 (17) Foot-operated garbage bins with lids shall be kept for th e separate collection of waste collected 
in the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that.
 (18) The following procedures shall be followed in the managem ent of waste that collects in relation 
to the premises.
 (A) Removed hair shall be collected at the end of each service  and disposed in a separate 
garbage bin.
 (B) Other waste generated by the activities in the premises sh all be collected separately 
without mixing them with the discharged hair.
 (C) The waste related to the premises shall be disposed in accordan ce with the waste 
management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in  a ccordance with 
the waste disposal strategy  implemented  by the license holder as agreed by the Public 
Health Inspector.

<!-- page 240 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 240A
 (19) Latrines in the premises shall be cleaned and disinfected  at least twice a day and shall be kept 
free from odor, and in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, 
the latrines on the premises shall be cleaned and maintained in accordance with the guidelines 
given by the Chairman as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
 (20) All employees work on the premises shall have a proper tr aining in using equipment, and shall 
not use any chemical for dyeing that is not approved by the health authority.
 (21) Any person who suﬀ  ers from any infection, transmittable or skin disease, or who has recently 
suﬀ ered from such a disease, or who has recently nursing a person  who has recently infected 
from any such disease, unless the period of infection and incubation has expired, shall not be 
employed or employed as an assistant at any licensed place.
 (22) Any person identiﬁ  ed as suﬀ ering from any infection, transmittable or skin disease shall not 
normally be entered to the premises for service.
 
 (23) When the license holder decides or in case where it is pr escribed by the Chairman or any other 
competent authority instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the body temperature of all 
persons visits seeking services on the premises shall be checked and entered into the premises, 
and required thermometers shall be maintained to check the body temperature without contact.
 (24) The health guidelines to be followed by each customer on the premises shall be displayed on 
the premises and the license holder shall ensure that all activities are carried out in accordance 
with those guidelines.
 (25) First aid facilities shall be maintained on the premises and the staﬀ  employed shall be trained 
for that as well.
 (26) Relevant to all persons who serve on the premises, the li cense holder shall ensure,
 (A) That the clothing worn at work is clean and in good health  condition.
 (B) That the jewellery worn and their nails are maintained in a manner that does not harm 
the customer.
 (C) That the hands are sanitized and cleaned prior to service.
 (27) It is the responsibility of the license holder to subject  the employees work on the premises for 
a medical checkup at least once a year.
 (28) A copy of this By-law and the license shall be displayed in all premises.
 12. It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any ot her oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect whether the premises is in accordance with the 
provisions of this By-law.
 
 13. T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 

<!-- page 241 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 241A
 14. In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
 15. It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publ ic Health Inspector or any other authorized 
oﬃ  cer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable time to inspect the 
premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions of this By-law.
 
 16. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this By-law violates the provisions of this By-law 
or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c 
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
 
  (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the li cense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
 17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder fails to be comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 above. 
 18. It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this By-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this By-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 122(2) of the Pr adeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Subsection 122(2) of the P radeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 
for each day of such violation.
 19. The By-law Hairdressing Centres, which is applicable to su b- section 1 of section 3 of the Local 
Government Institutions Standard By-laws Act, No. 06 of 1952, which is eﬀ ective before the eﬀ ective 
date of this By-law, does not apply to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
 20. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By- law,
  “Council” means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that  position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Disinfectants" means a chemical agent that physically reduce s the amount of microorganisms in the 
environment to a level that does not reduce their safety or suitability,
  "Reasonable time" means the time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work. 
 21. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Power to enter a
premises
Cancellation of the
license
Penalty
Defnitions
Inconsistency
between Texts

<!-- page 242 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 242A
SCHEDULE
Application to obtain a Trade License for the Year.......................
 1. Name of the applicant: -
 2. Personal Address: -
 3. National Identity Card Number: -
 4. Telephone number: - 
 5. Nature of the business: -
 6. Start year: -
 7. Address of the hairdressing center: -
 8. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 9. Assessment Number: -
 10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -
 11. Information of the manager or agent of the place of business,
 I. Name and Personal Address: -
 II. National Identity Card Number: -
 III. Phone Number Mobile: - Fixed: -
12. Number and date of the construciton approval plan relevant to the business:-
  (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request that a trade license to be issued to me for the year ................ for the place where the industry, 
Trade mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules and regulations on this regard.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Signature of the Applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Secretary 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend granting the license.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and  recommendations fo r the issuance of a license in relation to 
the application mentioned on the back.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Secretary

<!-- page 243 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 243A
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with By-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of license.
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuaning of a license for the relevant place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.)
............................ .................................. ..........
Date  Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW RELATING TO MARKETS
 1. This By-law is enacted to regulate and monitor the public o r private markets maintained and to 
repeal the By-law on Relating to Markets which has been applied  in accordance with Sub- section 
(1) of section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard By-laws Act No. 06 of 1952 within 
the authority area of  Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 2. This By Law is cited as the By Laws for markets of Seethawa ka Pradeshiya Sabah. 
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these By- laws by virtue of  Section  126(XII)  
of  Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
 
 4. This By-law refers to a public or private market that is ma intained for purchase or sale of goods or 
materials for the public on behalf of Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha or any other party located within 
the authority area of the Seethawaka. Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as authority area) for 
the purpose. 
 5. All public markets and private markets located within the a uthority area shall be maintained under the 
management of a market caretaker (hereinafter referred to as the premises at some places). 
 6. All public markets and private markets established and main tained within the authority area shall be 
constructed to meet the following requirements:
 (1) Permanent buildings pertaining to the premises shall be co nstructions constructed under the 
Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or in accordance with the provisions of the 
Housing and Urban Development Ordinance.
 
 (2) Construction on the premises shall be well made of permane nt structure and maintained in 
good condition. 
 (3) There shall be platforms for the sale of goods and materia ls for each permanent construction 
on the premises, and the front of the platforms shall be adequately spaced so that buyers  can 
move around. 
Short Title
That the market
should be under
the management 
of a caretaker
Requirements for
a public and
private market

<!-- page 244 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 244A
 (4) Under the permanent construction of the premises, each sta ll shall be at least two point eight 
square meters.
 (5) All buildings related to the premises shall be constructed  with access facilities for persons with 
disabilities and special needs.
 (6) All construction on the premises shall be securely constru cted, and all construction materials 
on the premises shall be free from contaminants and materials that are not suitable for food or 
stock, as well as those that do not emit toxic gases.
 (7) The internal layout of the buildings on the premises shall  be arranged in such a way that they 
can be separated, divided and positioned to prevent cross-pollution in the premises.
 (8) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed so that the hygienic operations of the 
process from bringing the  goods to the premises to the sale can be carried out properly.
 (9) There should proper access to the premises for the vehicle s carrying goods to the premises 
and the food items in the premises shall not be polluted in any way due to the motor vehicles 
entering the premises.
 (10) There should be adequate parking facilities for vehicles carrying goods and customers inside 
the premises.
 (11) The ﬂ  oor should be prepared in a manner that water does not remain in the premises and 
arranged in a manner that all the drains and rainwater in the premises ﬂ ow easily.
 (12) Sewage pits for the discharge of wastewater within the pr emises shall be constructed in 
accordance with the approved design and shall be located at a distance of at least 15 m from a 
water source and shall not be exposed to the outside.
 (13) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the prem ises and maintained separately for men 
and women.  The  provisions of the By-laws relating to Public latrine in respect of public latrine 
maintained within the premises shall apply with the required minor changes.
 
 (14) Adequate space should be provided within the premises to allow the sale and purchase of goods 
while maintaining adequate social distance, and the internal st ructure should be  maintained 
to facilitate the movement of goods within the premises without  causing inconvenience to 
customers. 
 
 (15) Every platform set up for the sale of goods should have a  non- slip, waterproof, appropriate 
surface and be easy to clean with antiseptic.
 
 (16) The premises should be zoned according to what is for sal e, and no goods other than speciﬁ ed 
in the particular zone shall not be sold.
 
 (17) No item or items for sale should be kept in direct contac t with the ground and should always 
be placed on a rack with a suﬃ  cient height above the ﬂ oor for sale. 
 
 (18) It should be the duty of the caretaker of the market to m ake room for the sale so that there is 
enough space for the customers to move around in the premises to buy the goods.
 
 (19) Equipments used for weighing and measuring in the premise s should be with proper standard 
 
 (20) Animals such as dogs and cats should not be allowed to ga ther or stay in the premises. 

<!-- page 245 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 245A
 7. Separate stalls shall be set up in the area reserved for th e sale of ﬁ sh in the premises and the following 
should be completed in this regard. 
 (1) Platforms for the sale of ﬁ  sh should be constructed with solid material and drains should also 
be constructed in a manner that the water can ﬂ ow easily. 
 (2) All equipment in the ﬁ  sh storage, display, and sale areas should be free from germ and should 
not emit contaminants or toxic gases into the ﬁ sh. 
 (3) Light bulbs and other ﬁ  xtures hanging above the ﬁ sh for sale should be in a safe condition and 
covered 
 (4) The ﬁ  sh market shall be kept clean and disinfected and before starting any sale the place shall 
be cleaned with anti-septic. 
 (5) The parts that contact with the ﬁ  sh kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and should 
not be contaminated in any way. 
 
 (6) Water from the cleaning and use of ﬁ  sh stalls should be diverted to a septic tank or suction pit 
under a separate drainage system and should not be in contact with other drains in the area.
 
 (7) The eﬄ   uent collected during the sale of ﬁ sh should be temporarily collected in sealed containers 
so that it does not mix with other eﬄ  uents in the premises and disposed of in accordance with 
the waste management system implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or as per the instructions 
of the Public Health Inspector. 
 (8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of  ﬁ sh other than kept for sale.
 
 (9) If the ﬁ sh is stored on site, adequate refrigerators should be available and the relevant refrigerators 
should be maintained under continuous electricity supply .
 
 (10) Fish  taken  out  of  the  refrigerator  should  be  kept  at natural temperature and not re-refrigerated 
and sold. 
 (11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in print ing paper or in direct contact with 
ﬁ sh.
 
 (12) Fish shall not be stored in sales stall, the equipment no n-related ﬁ sh sale shall not be kept in 
the stall.
 
 (13) All ﬁ  sh sellers shall wear clean clothes.
 
 (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written la w for the operation of a premises for the 
sale of ﬁ sh, all such licenses must have been obtained by the ﬁ sh sellers in the premises, none 
of those provisions shall not undermine these provisions.
 
 8. If a zone is created for the sale of meat in the premises, speciﬁ c stalls shall be set up in this regard 
and the following requirement shall be completed 
 (1) Relevant stalls shall be constructed in such a manner as t o be considered as a speciﬁ c premises 
for the purpose, and all relevant stalls shall be maintained under a license in accordance with 
the written rules relating to the maintenance of the premises for the sale of meat
Sale of ﬁ sh in the
 premises.
Sale of meat in the
premises.

<!-- page 246 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 246A
 (2) All equipment in the meat storage, display, and sale areas  should be free from germs and should 
not emit pollutants or toxic gases into the meat.
 
 (3) Light bulbs and other ﬁ  xtures hanging above the meat for sale should be in a safe con dition 
and covered. 
 (4) The meat shall be kept clean and disinfected and before st arting any sale the place shall be 
cleaned with anti-septic.
 
 (5) The parts that contact with the meat kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and should 
not be contaminated in any way. 
 (6) Water from the cleaning and use of meat stalls should  be diverted to a septic tank or suction 
pit under a separate drainage system and should not be in conta ct with other drains in the 
area. 
 
 (7) The eﬄ  uent collected during the sale of meat should be temporarily collected in sealed containers 
so that it does not mix with other eﬄ  uents in the premises and disposed of in accordance with 
the waste management system implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or as per the instructions 
of the Public Health Inspector. 
 (8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of  meat other than kept for sale. 
 (9) If the meat is stored on site, adequate refrigerators shou ld be available and the relevant 
refrigerators should be maintained under continuous electricity supply.
 
 (10) The meat taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natural temperature and not re-refrigerated 
and sold. 
 (11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in print ing paper or in direct contact with 
the meat.
 
 (12) The meat shall not be stored in the sales stall, the equi pment non-related meat sale shall not be 
kept in the stall.
 
 (13) All meat sellers shall wear clean clothes.
 
 (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written law for the operation of premises for the 
sale of meat. All such licenses must have been obtained by the meat sellers in the premises; 
none of those provisions shall not undermine these provisions.
 
 9. Platforms for selling fruits and vegetables in the premises  should be at least 45 cm above ground 
level and in the absence of such platforms, they should be placed on a board of suﬃ  cient height and 
sold.
 
 10. Those who engaged in sales in the premises shall use the s tandardized weighing and measuring 
equipment. 
 11. Vegetables and fruits kept for sale should never be kept i n mix with rotten vegetables and fruits and 
should always be disposed only in the containers for the disposal of rotten vegetables and fruits.
 
 12. Every trader should make sure that rotten vegetables or  f ruits that have not been ready at any time 
for the consumption. 
General
Conditions.

<!-- page 247 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 247A
 13. Only drinking water shall be used for washing the vegetabl es and fruits in the premises and the 
washing shall be done only  in a designated place.
 
 14. Garbage accumulated due to sales should be disposed only i n the containers kept for disposal at the 
premises or at the designated place at the end of the sales.
 
 15. No cooking or making ﬁ  re or any other preparation of food shall be done by anyone at the premises.
 16. When selling cooked food at the premises;
 
 (1) Food shall not be sold in a place where there is a risk of  food contamination. 
 (2) Always the food items shall be sold from the sealed or air tight containers.
 
 (3) Food items kept in any open space shall not be sold.
 
 (4) Cooked food shall not be taken here and there around the p remises and sold. 
 (5) Everyone who sells food item shall use gloves and touch th e food only with the help of a handle 
to hold food. 
 17. No person shall drink alcohol or make arrangements to drin k alcohol or smoke in any way at the 
premises.
 
 18. No person in the premises should utter ﬁ  lthy words or behave in an obscene manner.
 
 19. Anyone who suﬀ  ers from any infectious disease, or who is suspected of having  contracted disease, 
or who has  been infected with a wound, skin infection, ulcer, or diarrhea, or who has been cared for, 
should not trade on the premises. 
 20. The loudspeakers shall not be used in the premises to adve rtise or present musical programs.
 
 21. No person in the premises shall beg or hold performances.
 
 22. Whatever the above provisions of this By-law contain, ther e are reasonable grounds to suspect that 
in any area or authority  area in Sri Lanka, when there is a pr ovision for the spread of an epidemic 
under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it, In such 
cases, it should be lawful for the Chairman to prescribe that all or some of the following procedures 
shall be followed by the users of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
 (1) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders  and consumers at various places in 
the premises.
 
 (2) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders  and consumers at various places in 
the premises.
 
 (3) That public latrines in the premises should be temporarily  closed.
 
 (4) That there should be several entrances and exits to the pr emises. 
 
 (5) That the relevant minimum distance between traders and con sumers should be maintained and 
the minimum distance to be maintain between each other. 
Maintaining the
public market
in an epidemic
situation.

<!-- page 248 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 248A
 (6) That the premises should be well ventilated.
 
 (7) That the number of people entered to the premises at a tim e by the entrances should be limited.
 
 (8) That respiratory etiquette should be maintained on the premises and that anyone suspected of 
having a fever or respiratory illness or such condition should be prohibited from entering the 
premises.
 
 (9) Traders and users of the premises are required to wear fac e masks and traders are required to 
wear face masks and gloves.
 
 (10) That conduct and other necessary instruction should be displayed at the premises and maintained 
on a regular basis.
 
 (11) That when dealing with money in the premises, a speciﬁ  c person shall be deployed at each stall 
to perform that task and he or she shall regularly sterilize and clean their hands.
 
 (12) That food should not be consumed by anyone in any way in the premises.
 
 (13) That the premises should be divided into sections and ope rated for a limited trade.
 
 (14) That the premises were not maintained for commercial purp oses for a period of time.
 
 23. All persons who use the premises shall act in  accordance with the provisions made by the Chairman 
under the above clause 
 24. Every public market owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha and priv ate market should have a boundary 
schedule to the land area
 
 25. When it is a public market belonging to the Pradeshiya Sab ha
 
 (1) The Chairman shall ensure that all steps taken to maintain  the provisions of this By-laws are 
properly implemented
 
 (2) As per the decision of the Pradeshiya Sabha, the public ma rket of the Sabha can be entrusted 
to the second parties identiﬁ ed under the proper tender procedure
 
 (3) When the public market is maintained by the parties contra cted on behalf of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha, it shall be supervised by an oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to specify whether it 
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this By-law
 
 26. (1) When the public market is maintained by the Pradeshiya  Sabha, the fees to be charged for trade 
in the premises should be as determined by the Sabha  
 
  (2) All matters related to the fees prescribed under sub-clau se (1) above and the reservation of 
space for public market vendors shall be decided by the sabha t aking into consideration the 
recommendations of a committee appointed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 27. All private operating maintained within the authority area  shall not be maintained except under a 
license to be obtained from the Chairman. 
 28. All private markets operating within the authority shall n ot be issue a license unless they comply 
with the provisions of this By-law 
The terms must be
complied.
Determination of
fees.
License for Private 
Market.

<!-- page 249 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 249A
 29. All persons applying for a license under Article 26 shall apply to the Chairman in accordance with 
an application under the Schedule to this By-law
 
 30. The fees to be charged in respect of requests received fro m the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be legally 
determined by the sabha through a prior proposal
 
 31. If a license issued under section 26 is not previously rev oked in accordance with the provisions of 
this By-law, it shall be valid until 31st December of the year in which the license issued
 
 32. (1) (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By-law shall be determined and 
declared by the Sabha, subject to the provisions of the Basic Law 
  (2) It should be lawful for the Sabha to determine and charge  an inspection fee for a site inspection 
in connection with the issuance of a license
 
 33. It shall be lawful for an oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the premises and obta in the 
necessary items to inspect the premises in accordance with the provisions of this By-law
 
 34. (1) In the event of a breach or contradiction of the provi sions of this By-law, the Chairman shall 
give notice to the licensee giving a speciﬁ ed period not exceeding thirty days for compliance 
with the By-law
  (2) Upon submission of a notice under this section to the licensee, the Chairman may grant additional 
time upon request, on reasonable grounds, to grant further time  to act in accordance with the 
terms of the relevant notice. The period so granted shall be subjected to a maximum period of 
fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
 35. The Chairman shall revoke the relevant license in the even t that the licensee fails to comply with the 
notice within the period of time or additional period granted under section 33 above
 
 36. It is an oﬀ  ense to act in violation of any provision of this By-law or to  operate a private market 
without obtaining a license under this By-law and after being convicted by a magistrate  court under 
sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 shall be subjected to a penalty.
 37. The By-laws relating to fairs which have been applied in accord ance with sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard Bylaws Act, No. 06 of 1952 with eﬀ ect from 
the date on which this By-law comes into force are not applicab le to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha area. 
 38. Unless the context required an interpretation of the terms  of this By-law,
  "Sabha" means Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" refers to the person who holds the post of Chairma n of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha 
at present or the person who performs the function of that position.
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” Any oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Pollution" means food or food pollutants entry or occurrence .
  "Hygiene" refers to all the conditions and practices required  to ensure the safety and suitability of 
food at all stages of a food chain
 
 39. If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, Englis h and Tamil texts in this By-law, Sinhala 
text will prevail 
Applying for
License.
License fee.
Authority for
inspection.
Violation of the
terms of the
license.
Penalty.
Inconsistencies
between texts.

<!-- page 250 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 250A
SCHEDULE
Application for a License for the Year.......................
 01. Name of the Applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Telephone Number: - 
 05. Address of the place where the fair is held: -
 06. Start year: -
 07. Address of the place of business: -
 08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 09. Assessment Number: -
I do hereby certify that the above information is true and correct.
I kindly request you that please issue me trade license for the year ................. for the industry and place of 
trade mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules in this regard.
 ............................................
Date: ............................ Signature of the Applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation 
to the application mentioned on the back page.
 ............................................
Date:............................ Secretary 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend granting the license.
 ............................................
Date:............................ Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and  recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back page.
   ............................................
Date:............................ Secretary

<!-- page 251 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 251A
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with By-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of license.
   ............................................
Date............................ Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuaning of a license for the relevant place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.)
   ............................................
Date:............................ Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
BY-LAW RELATING TO THE BATHING PLACES WITHIN THE PRADESHIYA SAB HA
 1. This By-law is enacted to regulate and control public bathi ng places maintained and to repeal 
the By-laws on relating to the bathing places which have been a pplied in accordance with 
Sub- section 1 of Section 3 of the Local Government Institution s Standard By-laws Act, No. 06 of 
1952 within the authority area of the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 2. This By-law is cited as the By-law relating to the bathing places within the Seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha.
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 126(IX) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
 
 4. A bathing area, a well or a pool of water belonging to a ri ver, stream or canal which exists or is 
maintained as a public bathing place for public bathing within the territory of the Pradeshiya Sabha 
(hereinafter referred to as authority area) shall be applicable for the purposes under this By-law.
 
 5. When it comes to a public bathing area belonging to a river , stream or canal located within the 
authority area, with respect to each of those public bathing areas, 
 (1) The place shall be maintained under a notice board with th e words declaring it a public bathing 
place. 
 (2) Notices shall be displayed about the area that can be used  safely as a bathing place and the 
safety precautions to be taken in a way that makes it easy for the public to use the bathing 
area. 
 (3) Stairs shall be made with cement and it shall not be slipp ery in such a way to allow safe access 
to water for bathing.
Short name.
Maintaining a
public bathing
place.

<!-- page 252 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 252A
 (4) Whenever possible women and men shall have separate  acces s to the water.
 
 (5) Maintaining the bathing area shall not endanger any tree i n the river, stream, canal or lake 
reserve where the bathing area is located. 
 (6) Normally the bathing area shall be used from 06.00 a.m to 07.00 p.m and the bating area could 
be used at night only if adequate electric lighting is provided at the location. 
 
 (7) Separate places to change clothes shall be set up for men and women. 
 
 (8) Usage of alcohol shall be prohibited in any form around the bathing area and notices shall be 
prominently displayed in that regard.
 
 6. The Pradeshiya Sabha may provide and maintain additional se rvices and facilities for the users of 
the bathing place, and it shall be lawful to charge a fee as decided and published by the Pradeshiya 
Sabha for such services and facilities.
 7. When there is a public bathing well or pool located within the authority area, with respect to each of 
those public bathing well or pool,
 
 (1) The place should be maintained under a notice board with the words declaring it a public bathing 
place. 
 (2) Around the well or pool shall have a protective wall  of t he height of at least 0.6096 metres 
above ground level and at  least to a similar depth below ground level the well or pool should 
be permanently build securely with cement or granite.
 
 (3) Whenever possible, the public bathing place shall be maintained so that it can be used separately 
for men and women, and separate places for women and men to cha nge clothes shall be 
maintained. 
 (4) Drainage should be arranged in such a way that the water u sed for bathing is easily prevented 
from leaking into the bathing well or pool and drains easily out of it. 
 (5) Buckets and ropes shall be there as needed to use the water for bathing, and the buckets shall 
be painted to prevent rust.
 
 8. It is lawful to appoint committees by the Chairman consisti ng of representatives of the residents 
in the vicinity of every public bathing place to advise the Cha irman in such matters to assist in the 
action taken by the Pradeshiya Sabha to maintain the public bat hing places in accordance with the 
provisions of section 4 and 5 above. 
 9. (1) The function of a committee appointed under section 6 a bove shall be as follows:
 
 (A) If there are instances where it is observed that the users  of the public bathing places do 
not comply with the provisions of this By-law, they shall report thereon to the Chairman.
Setting a fee.
When it comes to 
a public bathing 
well or pool.
Appointment of 
committees.
The function of a 
committee.

<!-- page 253 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 253A
 (B) To inquire into the requirements of the relevant place for  the beneﬁ t of the public and to 
advise and report to the Chairman.
 (C) To perform relevant functions with the participation of la bor in cases where there is a 
need to clean the bathing pool and well for the beneﬁ t of public health.
 (D) To take all possible steps to protect the water sources an d the surrounding ﬂ ora and fauna, 
and to advise the Chairman in this regard.
 (2) Committees appointed for the purpose under sub-section (i)  shall gather from time to time and 
shall inform the Chairman of the decisions to be taken. 
 10. It is the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to take all possibl e steps to maintain the proper public baths 
located within the authority area.
 
 11. (1) It is lawful to prohibit the use of any public bathing  place for a speciﬁ ed period of time by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of any epidemic situation 
under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or any of the regulations made under 
it, applicable to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka.
 
  (2) Such an order shall be prominently displayed in a public bathing place.
 
 12. No person shall bath or use the public bathing place for a ny other purpose when the Chairman has 
prohibited using a public bathing place under the section 9 of this By-law during  the period of such 
prohibition. 
 13. (1) In case of any epidemic of any infectious or transmiss ible disease in the area, the Chairman 
shall issue instructions on the procedure to be followed by a person taking a bath in or using a 
public bathing place in accordance with the instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
 
  (2) All provisions under sub-section (1) above shall be promi nently displayed in the public bathing 
place and all persons using the public bathing place shall obey the rules. 
 
 14. Anyone who suﬀ ers from an epidemic or spends a quarantine period after an epidemic or on quarantine 
period on suspicion of such an illness should not use a public bath.
 
 15. In a public bathing place,
 (A) Disposal of the waste generated shall be as speciﬁ  ed by the Chairman and no waste shall be 
released into the external environment.
 (B) A garbage bin shall be speciﬁ  cally reserved and maintained in the place to dispose things such 
as face masks or gloves worn by any person and shall be disposed only to the garbage bin.
 (C) The waste collected shall be disposed according to the waste management program implemented 
by the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
Prohibition of use 
when an epidemic 
is declared.
Publication of
regulations 
relating to 
an epidemic 
situation.
Disposal of waste. 

<!-- page 254 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 254A
 16. Water shall not be taken for drinking purposes from a publ ic bathing place in any instance.
 17. No person shall urinate or defecate in the vicinity of a p ublic bathing place unless there are toilets 
and latrines provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha in an area designated as a public bathing place.
 
 18. Shall not wash vehicles, machineries or agrochemical spraying machines in a place that is maintained 
as a public bathing place.
 
 19. No person shall bathe, wash or enter any animal in or near any place designated as a public bathing 
place. 
 20. No person shall roam, walk around a public bathing place w ithout any purpose.
 
 21. The public bathing place shall be regularly inspected by a n oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
ensure that it is in accordance with the provisions of this By-law. 
 22. It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a pubic bathing place against the provisions of this By-law or violate the 
provisions of this By-law and after being found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be 
subject to a ﬁ ne under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
 23. The By-law relating to the regulation of public baths, whi ch is applicable to sub-section 1 of section 
3 of the Local Government Institutions Standard By-laws Act, No . 06 of 1952, which is eﬀ ective 
before the eﬀ ective date of this By-law, does not apply to the Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
 24. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by- law;
  “Pradeshiya Sabha” means . Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha too;
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Chairman of the Seethawaka..Pradeshiya Sabha 
for the time or the person who perform the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person holds the oﬃ  ce of that position for the Division of 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the Seethawaka. local authority at the time;
  "Authorized Oﬃ   cer" means an oﬃ  cer authorized by the then Chairman in writing. 
 25. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
That bathing and 
entering animals 
is prohibited.
Quality.
Deﬁ nition.
Inconsistency 
between texts.
EOG 11 – 0187/2

<!-- page 255 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
255A
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notiﬁ cation under Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15, of 1987, read with Section 2 of the 
Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
I, Roshan Goonetileke, the Governor of the Western Province, in terms of the powers vested in me under 
Section 123 of the  Pradeshiya Sabha Act. No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 2 of the Provincial Council 
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12, of 1989, do here by notify that my  approval has been given for the 
By-laws, described in the Schedule herenunder, made by the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of the 
Sub Section 122(1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987  read with Section 126 of the aforsaid Act.
 
Rඈඌඁൺඇ Gඈඈඇൾඍංඅൾ඄ൾ,
RWP And BAR VSV USP PHD FIM (Sri Lanka) ndc psc,
Marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force,
The Governor,
Western Province.
 
At Governors' Oﬃ  ce - Western Province,
Provincial Council Oﬃ  ce Complex,
Battaramulla.
On 16th Day of November, 2022,
BY- LAW OF REGULATING THE CONDUCT OF SHOWS ON THE ROADS AND STREETS 
OF THE PRADESHIYA SABAHA
1.  This By-law is enacted to control, regulate and to make arr angements for consequent matters to the 
conduct of shows by gathering people in any road, street and re lated reserve in the area of authority 
of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This By-law is known as the By-law of regulating the conduc t of shows on the roads and streets of the 
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these By- laws By virtue of Section  126(VII)   
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
  
   
4.  No person shall conduct a show or engage in any such activi ty in such a way as to gather the public 
except with a prior written permission of the Chairman in any r oad, street and related reserve in 
the area of authority of the  Homagama  Pradeshiya Sabha (herein after referred to as the authority 
area). 
   
Short name.
Obtaining
permission.

<!-- page 256 -->

256A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
5.  Any person wishing to conduct a show or engage in any activ ity in such a way as to gather the public 
on a particular road, street, or related reserve in the authori ty area within a speciﬁ ed period of time, 
shall apply for the permission in advance by submitting an application to the Chairman. 
6.  When someone has made a request to gather people to conduct  a show on a road, street or related 
reserve, or gather people to engage in any kind of such activity, the Chairman shall not grant permission 
to any person to do so without subjecting himself/herself to th e recommendations and conditions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health if there is a recommendation and conditions to which such gathering is 
appropriate for the beneﬁ t of the prevailing public health in the area.  
   
7.  Whenever any epidemic situation has been declared by the Qu arantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the regulations made under it in relation to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka or 
whenever an epidemic is declared in the authority area no person shall engage in activities that gather 
the public on a road, street or related reserve in the authority area. 
   
8.  This By-law stipulates that the applicant shall maintain th e relevant show subject to the following 
conditions: 
 (1) That during the performance of the show, the relevant acti vities will be carried out in accordance 
with the health care strategies recommended to be maintained for the beneﬁ t of the public health 
of the area during the entire period,
 (2) That the show shall always be held only for random gatheri ngs and that the show shall not be 
advertised in advance,
 (3) That no fees shall be charged for the purpose of the show,
 (4) That at no time engage in the show that maintains a positi on that minimizes the visibility of the 
show,
 (5) That the performer shall keep adequate sealed garbage bins  at the venue, and if there is anything 
disposed by the people gathered they should be disposed to the garbage bins, and shall conduct 
the show by encouraging the audience to do so. 
 (6) That the garbage collected in garbage bins at the venue du ring the show will be disposed of by the 
performer at the end of the show in accordance with the active waste management program in the 
area.
 (7) That if loudspeakers or other visual display boards are to  be set up at the venue, prior approval 
shall be obtained in accordance with the applicable written law and it shall be maintained so that 
it can be easily seen in more directions.
 (8) That the show will be held in such a manner that it will n ot cause any hindrance to traﬃ  c or 
pedestrian traﬃ  c. 
 
 (9) That if there are any public health rules to be followed b y the gathering under the permission 
given to hold the show or perform the show, the relevant show w ill be held or the show will be 
held in satisfaction that all those rules will be fulﬁ lled in that manner. 
.    
9.  When the Chairman permits to hold a show on a road, street or related reserve or any other such event 
the relevant permission under Section 5 of this By-law shall be granted after been satisﬁ ed that it shall 
not disrupt with the traﬃ  c or public using the road, street or related reserve. 
Granting
permission
by the Chairman.
Conditions.
That Traﬃ  c 
should not be 
disrupted.

<!-- page 257 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
257A
10.  In cases where a speciﬁ c public place has been reserved by the Council for a gathering of the people 
or for purpose of a show, the Chairman shall not grant permissi on for any show on a road or in a 
related reserve except at that place. 
   
11.  The fees to be charged for the issuance of a permit under this By-law shall be a fee decided and 
published By the Council by a resolution of motion from time to time.   
 
12.  Acting under a permit obtained from the Chairman under this By-law shall be subject to the provisions 
of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it. 
   
13.  It is lawful for the Chairman to cancel a permit issued un der this By-law at any time when the 
Chairman is satisﬁ ed that there are factors causing an epidemic in the authority  are, and upon such 
cancellation the amount charged for a permit shall be released to the applicant. 
   
14.  It is an oﬀ ense to hold a show in a road, street in the authority area wi thout a permit to be obtained 
under this By-law or to act in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted By 
a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable to a penalty under S ub-section 122 (4) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.   
   
15.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law;
  The "Council" means the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
  The "Chairman" means the current Chairman of the Pradeshiya S abha or the person performs the 
duties of that position, 
  and 
  The "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of that position related to the 
division of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the relevant area. 
   
16.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 
-------------------------------------------
BY-LAW ON THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR MARKET SUPERVISORS AND 
OTHER EMPLOYEES
1.  This By-Law is imposed to specify the relevant Terms and Co nditions for the proper performance of 
the duties of the Supervisors and Other Employees appointed for  the market owned by Homagama 
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law to specify the work of the market Supervisors and Other Employees 
of  Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these By- laws by virtue of Section 126(XII)   
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act , No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-section 122 of the said Act. 
   
4.  For every market belong to the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha, there should be a post in the name of the 
market supervisor and a suitable person should be appointed to the post. Appropriate appointments 
should be made by the authority. 
Fees.
Cancellation of
the license.
Penalty.
Deﬁ nition.
Inconsistency
between texts.
Short Title.
Appointmint

<!-- page 258 -->

258A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
5.  The provisions of Section 32 of the Provincial Council Act,  No. 42 of 1987 as well as the provisions 
of Sub-section 19 (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 as appropriate, shall be applicable 
with regard to appointments to the post of Market Supervisor. 
   
6.  In order to carry out the duties of the Market Supervisor i n a proper and appropriate manner, the 
necessary supporting posts shall be created by the Sabha and es tablished in accordance with the 
relevant procedures. 
   
7.  The Market Supervisor shall carry out the following functio ns either by himself or his associates 
within the Public Market Premises. (hereinafter referred to as the Premises) 
   
 (1) Registration and maintenance of all traders in the premise s.
 
 (2) Placement of Traders by taking into account the zoning tha t operates within the premises. 
   
 (3) If there is a permanent operation of the shops, it is nece ssary to keep a close eye on the 
conduct of the trade under the respective premises in accordanc e with the terms of the relevant 
agreement. 
   
 (4) To monitor the cleanliness of the latrines in the premises  and to ensure that the latrines are 
maintained in accordance with the By-laws regarding public latrines and to direct the staﬀ  in this 
regard. 
  
 (5) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the pr emises is disposed in accordance with the 
waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 (6) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the pr emises is disposed in accordance with the 
waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 (7) Sewage in the premises should be directed to the respectiv e pits or suction ditches so that water 
does not escape out of the drains. 
   
 (8) Taking all measures to maintain the provisions of the By-laws of the Pradeshiya Sabha regarding 
the public market and private market regarding the trade carried out in the premises. 
   
 (9) Carrying out the disinfection process in the public market  premises in a timely manner. 
   
 (10) Ensuring that no alcohol, drug use or any other illegal a ctivities take place in the 
premises. 
   
 (11) Taking all necessary steps to maintain the premises as a public health friendly premises. 
   
 (12) Prevent parking of vehicles other than in the parking lot  within the premises and direct the proper 
use of the entrances and exits. 
   
 (13) Advice and guide the users on matters to be followed for the regular cleanliness of the premises 
and supervise accordingly. 
Supporting posts
creation.
Functions  of 
Market 
Supervisor.

<!-- page 259 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
259A
 (14) Prevent begging, temporary accommodation and unauthorized  use of the premises. 
   
 (15) Take appropriate measures to prevent the spread of animal s such as dogs and cats on the 
premises. 
   
 (16) Taking action to collect the fees and rent due for the Pr adeshiya Sabha from the traders engage in 
trade in the premises. 
   
8.  The Supervisor of the public market may delegate the task t o the assistants to carry out the work 
assigned to him under Article 6 of this By-law and he shall ensure that the work so assigned is carried 
out in a proper and appropriate manner.
9.  Whenever there is an outbreak of an epidemic in any part or  territory of Sri Lanka or when there is a 
suspicion of an outbreak in the authority area, It is the duty of the Market Supervisor to ensure that 
all steps are taken to implement the following or any other ins truction given by the Chairman on the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health regarding the premises. 
   
 (1) Make sure that the water supply for hand washing placed in  various places on the premises is safe 
and in constant use for the users of the premises. 
   
 (2) Ensure that the conditions connected with the use of publi c latrines in the premises are properly 
observed and the relevant health instructions are followed. 
   
 (3) The disinfection process on the premises should be carried  out in accordance with the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (4) All activities in the premises are carried out in accordan ce with the instructions given to the users 
of the premises to maintain the social distance.  
   
 (5) Action shall be taken in accordance with the instructions to restrict the entry of vehicles into the 
premises. 
   
 (6) That health advice to be followed in the premises shall be  displayed in the premises through 
advertisements and other advertising methods. 
   
 (7) The disposal of the waste of used Masks, gloves, etc. in t he premises are to be considered as 
clinical waste and they are disposed without mixing with other waste.  
   
 (8) In the event of the Chairman suspending business activities in the premises for the sake of public 
health, no trade or public gathering shall not be taken place in the premises. 
   
 (9) Each stall in the premises has a speciﬁ  c person appointed in connection with the cash 
transactions. 
   
 (10) Any instruction given by the Chairman on the instructions  of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
the Public Health Inspector for the beneﬁ t of the public health shall be duly executed within the 
premises.
   
Follow the 
instruction during 
the outbreak of an 
epidemic

<!-- page 260 -->

260A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
10.  It is the responsibility of the Market Supervisor to carry out the duties assigned to him and make 
other employees to carry out their duties assigned to them, properly By this by-law. 
   
11.  The market supervisor shall maintain a records of the day- to-day activities of the employees in 
the premises; a daily notebook should also be maintained in the  premises for visitors' notes for 
follow-up.  
   
12.  It is the responsibility and duty of the Market Supervisor  to ensure that all activities are carried 
out in accordance with the written directives related to the public market and its activities by the 
Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, and that the instructions given after such supervision 
are properly implemented.
 
13.  The Supervisor of the market shall always act under the ge neral administration of the Chairman 
and Secretary of the Sabha 
   
14.    Unless a diﬀ erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By-law, this By-law,
        
    “Sabha” means Homagama Pradesiya Sabha.
    "Chairman" means Homagama the current Chairman of the Prade shiya Sabha or those  
  who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman, 
 `"Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health Division relevant to the Pradeshiya Sabha area,“Publi c Health Inspector” 
means a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector at tached to the oﬃ  ce of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha or Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health working in the authority area of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha .
   
15.  If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, Englis h and Tamil texts in this by-law, Sinhala 
text will prevail.    
--------------------------------------------
BY-LAW ON THE MAINTENANCE OF LAUNDRY AND 
WASHING PLACES.
1.  IT is hereby informed that the By-Laws on maintenance of La undry, which is speciﬁ ed in the 
Gazette notiﬁ cation No. 584 and dated 10.11.1989 of the Democratic Socialis t Republic of Sri 
Lanka, that is adopted by Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha, same is published in Gazette notiﬁ cation 
No. 520/7 and dated 23.08.1988 same was proposed by the Minister in charge of Local Government 
of the Western Province under Section 2 of the Local Government Authorities (Standard By-Laws) 
Act, No. 6 of 1952 which should be read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential 
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, will be repealed after 31.12.2 022 without prejudice the actions 
taken so far under the said By-Laws and this By-law will be ena cted to regulate, supervise and 
control the maintenance of Laundry within the jurisdiction of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
Act under the 
general 
administration 
Chairman and 
Secretary 
Sabaha.
Deﬁ niton .
inconsistencies
between texts.
Keeping Records
Supervision

<!-- page 261 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
261A
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-Law on the Maintenance of La undry and Washing Places in the 
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
  
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Homagama Pradeshiy a Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall operate a laundry or a washing center (hereinafter referred to as a premise) except 
under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law. 
5.  All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall apply for it under an application prepared in 
accordance with the schedule under this By-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman By registered post, handing over in hand or by e-mail to the 
extent permitted By the Council.
  
7.  All persons applying for a license under this By-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are fulﬁ lled. 
   
 (1) If the constructions relevant to the premises are permanen t constructions, all such constructions 
shall be constructions in accordance with the provisions of the  Urban Development Authority 
Act, No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) There shall be separate room facilities for temporary stor age of cloths brought for cleaning in the 
premises till cleaning. 
   
 (3) Accepting cloths for cleaning on the premises and returnin g the cleaned cloths shall not be done 
by one person at the same time. 
   
 (4) When washing, drying and reprocessing of clothes take plac e in the same premises,
 
  (A) Drainage related to the premises shall be maintained in s uch a way that it is easily drained 
and wastewater shall be diverted to a septic tank, soakage pit or central treatment unit according 
to approved procedures.
  (B) Machines used for washing and drying clothes shall be in good working condition, properly 
ﬁ tted to the ﬂ oor and set up so that the noise generated during operation do es not spread to the 
outside. 
  (C) The electrical circuit of the premises shall be one which  is ﬁ xed permanently and the plugs 
shall be properly ﬁ tted for the required electrical capacity. 
  (D) The water discharged during washing shall be ﬁ  nally disposed of without any outﬂ ow. 
Short title.
Applying for
 a License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 262 -->

262A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  (E) Windows and openings shall be ﬁ  tted out to allow light and air to enter the premises easily, 
and if not shall be artiﬁ cially lighted and air conditioned.
  (F) Tables and other equipment for ironing work shall be set up at a suﬃ  cient distance so that they 
can be used properly. 
  (G) Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided for the em ployees working on the premises and 
adequate latrine facilities shall be provided for both males and females. 
  (H) There shall be hygienic containers to keep the cleaned cl othes temporarily and they shall not 
contact with the dirty clothes in any way. 
  (I) There shall be rooms or partitions with doors that can be  closed to keep clothes after ironing 
until they are returned. 
  (J) The interior of the premises shall be designed to maintai n a proper distance when 
required.  
   
 (5) When washing clothes outside the premises, a public water source shall not be used for that 
purpose and the applicant shall be certiﬁ ed,
  (A) That washing clothes will be done at a place speciﬁ  ed for that purpose and that the place will 
be conﬁ rmed from time to time;
  (B) That no chemical used in cleaning clothes are released in to any water source after 
use.  
   
 (6) When washing clothes is done outside the premises, necessa ry facilities shall be provided to 
ensure that dirty clothes are not mixed or contact with cleaned clothes in any way while carrying 
dirty clothes outside the premises to wash and bringing them back after cleaning.  
   
 (8) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers. 
   
 (9) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of suﬃ   cient capacity shall be available to be 
utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply failure.
 
   
 (10) Internal drainage and sewage disposal in the premises sha ll be directed to a septic tank or soakage 
pit, and if the septic tank or soakage pit is in a water source , it shall be more than 15.25 m 
away. 
   
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lic ense made under this By-law, the 
Chairman;
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the prem ises if it is in accordance with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
Issuing a license

<!-- page 263 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
263A
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it i s not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
    
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
   
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license. 
   
10.  If a license issued under this By-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ  rst of the year in which the license is 
related. 
   
11.  All persons received a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein. 
 (1) The clothes handed over for cleaning shall be kept in a co ntainer in a speciﬁ c room on the premises 
until it is cleaned.
    
 (2) Disposal of any chemicals used to clean clothes on the pre mises shall be done in accordance with 
the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (3) Drains or pipes which discharge waste water due to cleanin g of clothes in the premises shall be 
directed to a septic tank or soakage pit so that it does not open on the ground surface. 
   
 (4) Latrines for employees on the premises shall be kept clean  and disinfected. 
   
 (5) If burning charcoal is used for ironing, they shall be thoroughly extinguished after use, collected 
in a separate container and disposed as waste. 
   
 (6) If there are residential employees on the premises;
  (A) Separate residential facilities shall be provided under a dequate sanitation facilities.
  (B) The area for the purpose of accommodation and dining on t he premises shall be kept separate 
from the area where the licensing process takes place. 
     
 (7) A person suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infected or such a vector or an 
infected person shall not be employed on the premises in any way and the license holder shall be 
always satisﬁ ed that such person is not employed. 
   
Fees for a license

<!-- page 264 -->

264A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (8) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (9) It is lawful for the Chairman to order, on the instruction s of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, to 
carry out all or some of the following actions in connection wi th the conduct of license-related 
functions in the premises in the event of the implementation of regulations relating to any epidemic 
situation in the authority area under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the 
regulations made under it. 
   
  (A) That the activities on the premises carried out under the  license shall be temporarily suspended 
for a certain period of time.  
   
  (B) That work shall be carried out keeping speciﬁ  c social distancing while working on the 
premises. 
   
  (C) A speciﬁ  c procedure shall be followed in handing over dirty clothes, c leaning and 
returning.  
   
  (D) The health guidelines applicable to the activities on the  premises shall be displayed in a 
manner visible to the public and employees.  
   
  (E) That shall enter into a statement of agreement with the C hairman stating that the premises will 
be maintained in accordance with the health regulations applicable from time to time. 
 
   (F) Employees working on the premises shall engage in work w earing gloves and masks for 
speciﬁ c purposes.
   
  (G) That the premises shall be disinfected.  
   
12.  Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed to seal ed garbage bins speciﬁ cally maintained 
for that purpose, and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises, all of them shall only 
be disposed into foot-operated containers which shall be mainta ined on the premises for only that 
purpose.  
   
13.  Waste collected on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program 
implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
14.  Each premises shall display this by-law and the license obtained thereon or a copy thereof. 
That the license 
shall be
 displayed.

<!-- page 265 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
265A
15.  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any other authorize d Public Health Inspector or any other 
authorized oﬃ  cer to enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect w hether the premises is in 
accordance with the provisions of this by-law.
 
16. (1) In the event of being against this by-law or violation of the provisions of this by-law in a premises 
licensed under this by-law, the Chairman shall submit to the li cense holder a notice informing a 
speciﬁ c time period not exceeding thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submitting a notice under this Section to the licens e holder, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be in 
accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period gr anted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event  that the license holder fails to be comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above.
    
18. It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, shall 
be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradesh iya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 of the 
said Ordinance. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, if the violation continues even 
after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to 
an additional penalty referred to in that sub-section for each day of such violation. 
    
19. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in th is By-law.
   “Council” means Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached to 
the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
   
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Engl ish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
Concellation of 
the license
Penalty
Power to enter 
a premises
Deﬁ nition.
Inconsistency 
between 
texts.

<!-- page 266 -->

266A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
First Schedule
Application for a License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address of the laundry or the washing place: -
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. Approved building plan number and date: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year…………
Date: -             
        ……………………………….
         Signature of the applicant 
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations as soon as possible for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: -         .................................
                                 Secretary
.........................................................................................................................................
 
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date: -         …………………………….
                                 Revenue Inspector
.........................................................................................................................................
Chairman,
I recommend issuing a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: -                                                    .................................
                                            Secretary
.........................................................................................................................................
Secretary,
I approve the issuance of a license.
Date: -                                          .................................
                                              Chairman

<!-- page 267 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
267A
BY LAWS RELATING TO PUBLIC LATRINES OF 
PRADESHIYA SABHA
01.  The objective of the enforcement of this by law is to regu late the use and maintenance of Public 
Latrine System in this Homagama Pradeshiya Sabah authority area. 
 
02. This By Law is cited as the By Law for regulating the use a nd maintenance of Public Latrines within 
the authority area of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabah  
03.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 126(IX), 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
 
04. It shall be the responsibility of the Sabaha to maintain Pu blic Latrine facilities in the places where 
general public gather, within the authority area of Homagama Pr adeshiya Sabah (hereinafter refers 
as authority area).  
 
05. All Public Latrine facilities within authority area of Prad eshiya Sabah shall be maintained with clean 
and tidy adequately under the sanitary requirement and shall be well maintained. 
 
06. Separate facilities for men, women and for persons with dis abilities should be maintained in each 
public Latrine maintained by the Sabha. 
  
07. All public Latrines within the authority area of Pradeshiya  Sabah shall be maintained in accordance 
with the conditions prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to be maintained for the beneﬁ t of 
the public health 
 
08. Adequate water supply should be maintained permanently for all public Latrines and water storage 
facilities shall also be provided for this purpose.  
 
09. All public Latrines shall be easily accessible to both men and women as well as persons with 
disabilities.  
 
10. Each Latrine should have facilities such as hand washing wi th proper, permanent water connection 
in a designated area with a basin made of stainless steel and s hould always have facilities with the 
adequate sanitary wipers,  detergent and hand drying facilities also be provided. 
 
11. Each public Latrine should have separate cloth racks in eac h compartment and should also be 
provided with space to keep the belongings 
 
12. Adequate number of foot operated dust bins should be kept i n each compartment of every public 
Latrine for the public use.   
 
13. If there are any masks or gloves worn by the users of the public Latrine, the masks or gloves should 
be disposed in to the foot operated dust bins. This speciﬁ cally stated on the dust bins. 
Short Title.
The Sabaha 
should mauntain
public Latrine 
facilities.

<!-- page 268 -->

268A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
14.  The surface of all the public Latrine should be made of ce ment or porcelain so that the water does 
not retain and slip easily and the ﬂ oor should be prepared so that water can drain easily.  
 
   (01)  Instructions on speciﬁ  c sanitary measures to be followed by the public Latrine users  for 
protection of public health to be displayed in the public Latrine premises for easy understanding.  
   (02)  All persons who use public Latrines shall act in accor dance with the relevant 
instructions.  
 
16.  A latrine shall always be cleaned and be kept under sanita ry condition and germicide should 
be used when cleaning and shall be well maintained and staﬀ   should be deployed to ensure the 
cleanliness.     
 
17.  Adequate lighting should be provided in all public Latrine s.  
 
18.  If the Sabah decides to char ge a fee for the services provided in public Latrines within the authority 
area, a notice shall be prepared and aﬃ  xed in all three languages clearly with regard to the available 
facilities and the fees charged.   
 
19.  When using public Latrines, the accumulated waste should b e disposed in accordance with the 
speciﬁ c procedure and the disposal of masks and gloves used should be considered as medical waste 
and disposed accordingly. 
 
20.  The utensils used in public Latrines should be cleaned with water after every use and then keep them 
ready for the easy use of others. 
 
21.  If a public Latrine is maintained by a second party on beh alf of the Shaba, the provisions of this 
by-law shall applicable to all public Latrine so maintained by the second party. The compliance of 
provisions of this by-law shall be monitored regularly by the assigned employees, appointed for this 
purpose. 
 
22.  In addition to the provisions of this By-Law, the users of public Latrine shall also abide by provisions 
of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, when prescribed or applied to any epidemic 
situation  
 
23.  It shall be lawful to restrict the use of any public Latri ne within the authority are for the beneﬁ t of 
public health for a speciﬁ ed period of time, to restrict its use, or to suspend it tempo rarily by the 
Chairman as prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.   
 
24.  Taking into the consideration of the factors that may caus e or spread of any epidemic disease 
within the authority area declared by the Quarantine and Preven tion of Diseases Ordinance, the 
Chairman shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the use of public Latrine is accordance with 
the instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health prior to the use Latrine by the public. 
Charge a fee;
Obtaining the 
assistance of
 a second party
Use of public 
Latrines during 
an epidemic 
situation

<!-- page 269 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
269A
25.  Prior to the use of public Latrine in connection with the steps under section 23 above, the Chairman 
shall display the instructions in a manner that is easily visib le to the user of the public Latrine in 
accordance with instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
  
26.  All public Latrines should be cleaned with antiseptic according to a spec iﬁ c daily schedule in a 
manner that no odor is emitted, while such cleaning activities shall be recorded in a report kept in 
the premises. The Chairman shall implement an appropriate program to regulate the continuity of the 
clean-up operations.  
 
27.  No matter whatever stated in the above clauses of this by- law, there shall not be any impediment 
by any provision of this by-law to the implementation of the pr ovisions of the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance or any regulation obtained thereon.  
  
28.  If a Public Latrine is maintained on behalf of the Council  under the administration of a second party, 
the provisions of this by-law shall apply to all public Latrine s so maintained and shall always be 
deemed to have been applicable.  
 
29.  If a fee is charged for the use of a public Latrine, a rec eipt shall be issued to the user for the speciﬁ c 
amount so charged. 
 
30.  It is an oﬀ  ense for any person who act in violation of a provision of thi s by-law and after being 
convicted by an authorized court, the person shall be liable to a penalty under sub-section 122 (2) of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.  
 
31.  For the purpose of these By Laws, unless the context other wise requires.
  “Sabah” means the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
  “Chairman” means Chairman of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha or  the person executes the duties 
of the chairman. 
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person holding the post of the Medic al Oﬃ  cer of Health in 
the relevant area of the Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
32.  If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhala, Tamil and Eng lish texts in this by-law, the Sinhala texts 
will prevail. 
Penalty.
Discrepancy 
among the
 medium.

<!-- page 270 -->

270A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
BY-LAWS ON THE CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC 
HEALTH CARE FACILITIES
1.  This By-Law is enacted for the control and management of pu blic health care facilities in the 
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
2.  This by-law is cited the by-law on the control and manageme nt of public health care facilities in the 
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. Area. 
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 126(IX)   
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
 
4.  Public health care facilities implemented in the Homagama P radeshiya Sabha area (hereinafter 
referred to as Authority area) shall be necessary to maintain i t in an appropriate manner. The 
Chairman shall, in consultation with the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, take such action. 
5.  The Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health and all Public Health Inspectors in the authority area shall be treated 
as oﬃ  cers of the Sabha for the purpose of controlling and managing  the public health facilities 
operated by the Sbaha.
6.  The Chairman may delegate any of the powers and functions c onferred on him under any written 
law in the control and management of public health facilities i n the Authority area to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspectors subject to the provisions of the relevant written 
law. 
   
7. 1. The management of public health care facilities related t o the following services operated 
by the Sabha in the authority area shall be carried out under t he supervision of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health.
   1. Waste management activities in the area
   2. Maternal and Child Health Clinics
   3. Public toilets and latrines
   4. Public Market Services
   5. Maintaining slaughterhouses   
 
8.  In the event of any outbreak of any epidemic aﬀ  ecting the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the Regulations made under it, or any other regul ation applicable under that 
Ordinance, shall be maintained by the Sabha. All regulations regarding the maintenance of services 
shall be made by the Chairman in accordance with the recommenda tions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health. 
   
The Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health
 and the Public
 Health Inspectors
 shall be treated 
as oﬃ  cers
 of the Sabha
Under the 
supervision 
of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health
Delegate of powers
Short Title
Making 
Regulations

<!-- page 271 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
271A
9.  A report prepared on the recommendations to be implemented for the next month in the proper 
maintenance of the public health facilities maintained by the S abha and a monthly report on the 
activities related to the management of the public health facilities relevant to the public health in the 
area with respect to the previous month shall be submitted by t he the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to 
the Sabha every month. 
   
10.  The recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health shall be submitted to the Sabha in respect of 
every measure applicable to the control and management of the relevant health care facilities in the 
authority exercise of the Sabha within the authority area of the Public Health Authority conferred by 
the written law. 
   
11.  Health protection to be enforced in the authority area in case of any contagious disease within the 
authority area or in case of a disease situation connected unde r the Quarantine or Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance and the orders made under it, steps shall be taken by the Chairman in consultation 
with the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
12.  In a determination made under Article 11 above, it is the duty of the ordering person to duly provide 
such prescribed information to the prescribed persons within the prescribed time. 
   
13.  Information to be collected in order to prevent the spread  of an epidemic or any contagious disease 
within the authority area applicable to the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of 
diseases Ordinance. It is lawful for a Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to direct any person to provide data 
to himself or to an authorized authority. 
14.  If a person who has obtained the relevant order in accorda nce with an order under Section 11 
above, does not act in accordance with Section 12 above and aft er being convicted by a Magistrate 
Court under section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 shall be subjected to a 
penalty. 
   
15.  It is the duty of the Chairman to maintain a proper arrangement under the Head Oﬃ  ce of the Sabha 
and all sub-oﬃ  ces for the execution of the functions prescribed and delegat ed under this By-
Law. 
   
16.  Unless other meanings are required in relation to the term s of this by-law, this By-law;
  “Sabha” refers  the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
  “Chairman” refers those who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha at 
present or perform the duties of that oﬃ  ce,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the  Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
  "Public Health Inspector" refers a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector attached to 
the oﬃ  ce of the Pradeshiya Sabha or Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health attached to the authority area of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Person" refers to a person or in case of an organization, th e Managing Director or Manager of the 
organization or any person acting on behalf of that organization, 
   
17.  If there are inconsistencies between the Sinhala, Tamil an d English texts in this By-law, the Sinhala 
text will prevail. 
Monthly Report
Obtaining details
Penalty

<!-- page 272 -->

272A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
   BY-LAW ON REGULATING THE LODGES AND ACCOMMODATION 
PLACES IN THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
1.  This By-law is imposed to regularize, monitor and control t he lodges, accommodation places, houses 
etc. which are maintained for providing temporary accommodation  facilities in the Homagama 
Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
2.  This By-law is called the by-law on regulating the lodges and accommodation places in the Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 126(IX) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
    
4.  No one in the area of jurisdiction of the Homagama Pradeshi ya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as 
territory) shall maintain a lodge or accommodation place (hereinafter referred to as premises) except 
under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  Anyone applying for a license under this By-law must apply for it according to an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule of this By-law. 
   
6.   Submission of an application under the above clause may be  made by registered mail, delivery or 
by e-mail as permitted. 
   
7.   Anyone applying for a license under this By- law must have  fulﬁ  lled the follwing 
condition 
  (1) Constructions related to the premises should be construct ed in accordance with a plan 
approved for such purpose and with a certiﬁ cate of conformity.
 
  (2)  Each room in the building should have separate toilet an d bathroom facilities and the ﬂ oor 
should be tiled or cemented.
  (3) Each building should have a living room, a designated man agement area, and adequate space 
for meals.
  (4)  The provisions of a regulation applicable to the Quarant ine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance in the jurisdiction shall be such that there may be a  suﬃ  cient number of double 
rooms or group rooms with suﬃ  cient space to be maintained remotely.
  (5)  The licensee must have a legal right or possession of th e property in question.
  (6) Each room should be equipped with facilities for the occu pants to keep their belongings safe.
  (7) There should be generators and water storage facilities t o be utilized in case of emergency 
power outages and water connection failures.
  (8)  Adequate space should be provided to park vehicles of th e lodgers.
  (9) People with disabilities and persons with special needs s hould have access facilities in 
accordance with the recommended standards. 
That a license 
must be 
obtained
Short Title
Applying for 
a License
Conductions for a 
License

<!-- page 273 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
273A
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application in respe ct of an application made under this by-
law the Chairman;
  (1)  Shall issue the relevant license for the premises to the  applicant in accordance with the 
conditions set forth in Article 6.
  (2)  Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if th e conditions mentioned in Article 6 
are not complied with the relevant application.
  
9.  (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
determined and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
  (2) It should be lawful for the council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site 
inspections in connection with the issuance of a license 
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license applies. 
   
11.  All persons who were issued a license under this by-law sh all act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
 
  (1) The premises must be under a registered business name or it may be an incorporated entity.
  (2) If the authorized person is not a manager of the organiza tion, the identity information 
requested by the chairman regarding the manager should be provi ded, and this information 
should be provided in each case of change.
  (3)  The premises should never be used for any kind of activi ties or any illegal activities that may 
disturb others, such as holding ceremonies, singing songs using  loudspeakers, or playing 
musical instruments.
  (4)  Adequate parking space should be maintained so that no v ehicles entering the premises are 
parked on public access.
  (5)  All the information including the name, address, identit y card number and contact numbers 
of all visitors to the lodge, as well as any information speciﬁ  ed by the Director of Health 
Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the area or the Chairman regarding the lodge rs 
for health reasons in the area from time to time should be documented. 
  (6)  If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman from  time to time under the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been  declared 
throughout Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or in any pa rt of the territory or in any 
case where an epidemic has been declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained subject to each such 
rule.
Issuing a license
Fees for a license

<!-- page 274 -->

274A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  (7)  Accommodation rooms, all spaces for accommodation use, t oilets and bathrooms should be 
disinfected before being used by another lodger after being use d by one lodger and toilets 
and bathrooms should be disinfected daily even while customers are present.
  (8)  Whenever there is a risk of an epidemic in the area, the  body temperature of each lodger 
who visits the premises should be measured before entering the premises by a person who is 
speciﬁ cally assigned for that purpose and everyone's hands and feet should be cleaned with 
sanitizer before entering the premises.
  (9)  All reusable items such as pillowcases, sheets, blankets , towels etc., which kept in each room 
for the use of the customers should not be used for another cus tomer without washing and 
cleaning.
  (10)  When the relevant room is a room for an individual it s hould be not given to more than one 
adult or when the room is a double room it should be not given to more than two adults or 
when the room is a triple room it should be not given for more than three adults or when the 
room can be accommodated by a group the room should be not given for persons exceeding 
the maximum  number of people that can be accommodated in the r oom when four square 
meters per person is considered as the minimum space and those over the age of ﬁ ve years 
should be considered as adults for the purpose in this subsection.
  (11)  Beds inside a room should be maintained to the extent s peciﬁ ed in subsection 10 above.
  (12)  No one should be allowed to lodge with a child under any circumstances except by parents 
or legal guardians.
  (13)  No one should be allowed to sleep in an open area other  than the rooms in the premises.
  (14)  No person shall be allowed to stay on the premises if t hey do not agree to verify their identity 
or are unable to verify their identity, and the information reg arding all persons who are 
staying should be in a statement under their signature.
   (15)  When the room is not an air-conditioned room, all room s should be well ventilated and 
allowed to be used after the doors and windows have been left open for some time.
  (16) When a regulation under the Quarantine and Prevention of  Diseases Ordinance comes into 
force in respect of any epidemic situation pertaining to the te rritory, the premises shall be 
maintained in accordance with all the provisions of that regulation.
  (17)  Generators should be permanently installed to provide u ninterrupted power supply in the 
event of a power outage.
  (18)  The water connection to the premises should be well mai ntained and there should always be 
facilities to store adequate water.
  (19)  Adequate staﬀ   should be employed on the premises and they should be subject ed to health 
checks as per the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. They should also be tested 
within a period of time recommended by the medical oﬃ  cer or within a period that can be 
described as clinical or epidemic.

<!-- page 275 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
275A
  (20)  Waste water, sewage discharged from the premises should  be diverted to the soakage pits, 
septic tank or central treatment unit according to the approved  methods with the required 
slope and necessary measures should be taken to prevent contami nation. A soakage pit 
should always be at least 15.25 m away from a water source.
  (21) Internal drains of the premises should be well drained a nd disinfected twice a day.
   (A) If the licensee provides cooked food on the premises to the lodgers;
  (22) (I) All utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a substance that does not emit any 
toxic substance, taste or odor, and shall be made of a stainless material.
   (II) All utensils and utensils used for cooking shall be of such a nature as to be easily cleaned.
   III) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of met al or non-corrosive materials 
with lids.
   IV) All cooking utensils and equipment shall be of a usable condition.
   (V) Separate refrigeration and storage facilities shall be p rovided in the premises for storing 
goods used for food preparation and cooked food.
   (VI) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation should b e thoroughly washed, cleaned 
and used.
   (VII) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement should be in place to ensure that all c ooked food on 
the premises is delivered to the lodgers without hazard, and th at persons with speciﬁ c tasks 
should be employed to regulate it.
   (VIII) Fish and meat brought in for serving should be stored  in a separate refrigerator in 
the premises and maintained at a temperature of about two degre es Celsius without being 
contaminated until used.
   (IX) All persons engaged in the work of serving food in the premises,
    
    (A) Should not touch food with your hands or ﬁ  ngers openly.
    (B) Money should not be used while engaging in any form of service.
    (C) Utensils and gloves used for touching food should be in  a good condition to be used.
    (D) A clean towel should be used to wipe both hands.
    (E) The bottom of a used cup, plate or other container shou ld always be kept out of  
 contact with any food.
    (F) All utensils used for food serving should be kept clean  and in separate containers.

<!-- page 276 -->

276A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
    (G) Employees should work to ensure that any of their work or a container will not in  
 any way cause food contamination or germs to be spread in a co ntainer.
    (H) Must have an understanding of the hygiene requirements applicable to the food  
 preparing process.
   (X) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman unde r the instructions of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been  declared in the territory 
or in any case where an epidemic has been declared under the re gulations made under the 
Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, preparation, c onsumption and serving 
of food and work carried out by all persons should be in accord ance with the orders of the 
Chairman issued under the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health or the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector , in addition to  the provisions of this By-
Laws.
   (XI) A speciﬁ  c place for serving and dine in should be located on the premises and maintained 
in an enclosed space with good ventilation or air conditioning.
   (XII) Hand washing should be facilitated before use. Adequat e soap and sanitizer liquid 
should be kept and facilities for hand drying should be provided.
   (XIII) Tables for serving and dine in should be maintained v ery clean and should be 
disinfected after each serving, and the towels used should be kept clean.
   Breathing etiquette and hand hygiene should be maintained re gularly in the premises.
 (23)  Instead of placing menus on tables, they should be place d so that the recipes are displayed on 
a screen as much as possible.
 (24)   A health monitoring system should be set up for the emp loyees working and a process should 
be put in place to get the health advice they need.
 (25)   Should not keep pets such as dogs or cats on the premis es in any way.
 (26)   The Garbage collected in the premises should have dispo sed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented in the area by the council and a ccording to the written 
law regarding waste management. 
   
12.  Accommodation should not be provided for anyone that you t hink may think being suﬀ ering from 
an infectious or epidemic disease. 
   
13.  If any lodger or an employee of the premises infected with  a transmissible disease, infectious or skin 
disease, the licensee should inform the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and after informing all persons 
involved in the premises should act in accordance with the quar antine instructions given by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or an authorized Public Health Inspector. 
 
14.  Once the premises have been subjected to the quarantine pr ocess, no one shall enter the premises 
for accommodation until the issuance of a certiﬁ  cate of completion of the quarantine period by 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector and until the pr emises have been 
completely disinfected. 
15.  It shall be lawful for the Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the necessary samples to inspect the premises in 
accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
   

<!-- page 277 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
277A
16.  When the Chairman has recommended that the licensee should  enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking 
into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic i n the area, the licensee should enter 
into a statement of agreement with the Chairman and the Chairma n should send a copy to the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
17. (01)  In the event of a violation of the provisions of this  by-law or in a manner contrary to the 
provisions of this by-law in a premises licensed under this by-law, the Chairman should hand 
over a notice to the licensee to be compliance with the by-law notifying a speciﬁ ed period 
not exceeding thirty days.
 (02)  Upon submission of a notice under this section to the Li censee, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time on a reasonable request to grant a n additional period to act in 
accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period wh ich is granted so should be 
subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the  period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst 
notice. 
   
18.  The Chairman should cancel the relevant license in the event that the licensee fails to comply with 
the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above. 
   
19.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license obtained under this by-law or in violation of 
the provisions of the by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable 
to a penalty under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. Further, after 
being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, and in the event of further breach of the law after a notice has 
been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, breach of the law must be subject to 
an additional ﬁ ne referred to in sub-section 122 (2) of the old Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 
for each day in which they continue the breach of the law. 
   
20.      Unless a diﬀ erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By-law, this by-law;
        "Council" means Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
        "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at  
 present or the persons who perform the duties of that position ,
        "Authorized Oﬃ   cer" means any oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Homagama   
 Pradeshiya Sabha in writing,
         “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who is related to that post in the Medical Oﬃ  cer  
 of Health Division relevant to the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha a rea,
        “Lodges or accommodation places” are the places which p rovide temporary accommodation for  
 a person for a period of time,
        The “Basic Law” refers to the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, and
   "Reasonable time" refers to any time engaged in a licensed a ctivity or related activity.
 
21. If there are variations between the Sinhala, Tamil and Engl ish texts of the By-law, then the Sinhala 
text will prevail. 

<!-- page 278 -->

278A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
          
          Application Number:
Fill up the “A” section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Oﬃ  ce / Wethara 
Sub Oﬃ  ce of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head Oﬃ  ce / Wethara Sub Oﬃ  ce
Application for a Trade License for the year 20 ..........
 "A"
1. Name of trader: .........................................................................................................................................
2. Name and address of the place of business: .............................................................................................
 .............................................................. .............................................................................................…..
 .............................................................. .............................................................................................…..
3. Personal address of the trader: ..................................................................................................................
4. National Identity Card Number of the trader: ...........................................................................................
5. Telephone Number: ...................................................................................................................................
6. Name and address of the owner of the building where the business is located : ......................................
 .............................................................. ..............................................................................................…..
7. Grama Niladhari Division Number and Name: ........................................................................................
8. Assessment Number and Street of the business place : .............................................................................
9. Commencement Date of the Business : .....................................................................................................
10. Nature of the business for which the license is applied for: ...................................................................
It is requested to grand the license to carry on the said business for the year 20 ............
Date: .....................                       ...............................
                                                                                                                              Signature of the applicant
 .......................................................................................................................................................................
 
For oﬃ  cial use
"B" Revenue Inspector Report
1.  Extent of the business premises: ..............................................................................................................
2. Number of employees in the place of business: .............. .........................................................................
3.  Annual value of the place of business: .....................................................................................................
4.  Nature of the building: .............................................................................................................................
5.  Nature of the Business (As per Gazette): ......................... Permanent / Temporary ................................
 
Other information to be mentioned.
 .............................................................. ....................................................................................................
 .............................................................. ....................................................................................................
 .............................................................. ....................................................................................................
 .............................................................. ....................................................................................................
    
Date: ...................                                                                         ............................ ...........
                                                                                                                   Revenue Ins pector

<!-- page 279 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
279A
Secretary
I recommend / do not recommend the license. The following conditions must be fulﬁ lled.
Conditions:
...................................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                             
Date : ..........................           ..................................
                                                                                                          Chief Revenue Inspec tor
Chairman
I recommend / I do not recommend issuing the above license.
                                                                                                     
Date : ..........................                           ...........................
                                                                                                                           Sec retary
Order of the Chairman
I approve / do not approve the issuance of the license for .... .....................................................................
................................ being carried out at ......... ........................................................................, for 
the year of 20……..
                                                                                                                    .......... ...................
 Date: ........................................               Chairman
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Note of Management Service Oﬃ  cer
License Fee Rs.   :  .......................................... .
Receipt No. & Date :  ......................................... ..           ................................................
License No. & Date :  HO/ PS/ TL /......................   Mana gement Servicers Oﬃ  cer (Revenue)

<!-- page 280 -->

280A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 BY-LAW ON RESTAURANTS OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
1.  It is hereby informed that the by-Laws on maintenance of Ho tels and Lodging houses, which is 
speciﬁ ed in the Gazette notiﬁ  cation No. 1986 and dated 23.09.2016 of the Democratic Sociali st 
Republic of Sri Lanka, that is adopted by Homagama Pradeshiya S abha, same is published in 
Gazette notiﬁ cation No. 1947/6 and dated 28.12.2015 same was proposed by the Minister in charge 
of Local Government of the Western Province under section 2 of the Local Government Authorities 
(Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952 which should be read with  Section 2 of the Provincial 
Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, will be repealed after 31.12.2022 without 
prejudice the actions taken so far under the said By-Laws and t his By-law will be enacted to 
regulate, supervise and control the maintenance of hotels within the jurisdiction of the Homagama 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
    
2.  This By-law is called the By-Law on Restaurants of the Homa gama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 
126(IX) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
    
4.  Anyone within the territory of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabh a (hereinafter referred to as the 
territory) shall not maintain restaurants, hotels, canteens and  cafeterias (hereinafter referred to 
as premises) which are preparing, selling and provide dine in f acilities of foods such as bakery 
and other food productions as cooked food, tea, coﬀ  ee except under a license obtained from the 
Chairman under this by-law.  
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application form 
prepared in accordance with the Schedule of this By-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above clause may be made by completing the relevant 
requirements and by submitting through registered post, by hand, or by e-mail to the extent permitted 
by the Council. 
   
7.  Anyone applying for a license under this By-law must have f ulﬁ lled the following 
conditions. 
   
 (1) All constructions related to the premises should be constr uctions as per the plan approved 
under the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or und er the Housing and 
Urban Development Ordinance and,
   (A) The material used in all constructions shall be prepared  in such a way that the toxic 
material does not emit toxins and does not emit toxic gases and  all surfaces should be 
constructed not to be easily retained by organisms.
   (B) The internal layout should be designed with adequate spa ce to enable the service to be 
performed without interruption.
   (C) The food raw material and cooked food should be stored i n a space designed with a safe 
preparation to prevent the ingress of toxins.
   (D) The premises shall be designed to check the hygienic con ditions of the internal food.
 
   (E) Disposal under the internal processing activities of the  premises shall be arranged with 
references that will not be returned in any way.
Short Title
That a license
 should be
 obtained
Applying for
 a License
Conditions 
for a license

<!-- page 281 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
281A
 (2)   At the food processing area on the premises,
   (A) Floors and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and  water-repellent material.
    (B) All surfaces shall be free from detergents and disinfec tants which can be easily cleaned.
   (C) The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensatio n and to prevent fungus 
formation and cracking.
   (D) If there are windows and other openings, they should be covered with insect repellent.
   
   (E) Absorbent fans shall be placed for easy ﬂ  ow of outside air and exhaust air.
 (3)  With respect to the catering area on the premises,
            (A) Adequate space should be provided for customers  to sit individually and in groups.
           (B) When the relevant part of the catering area is a n open space to the environment, it should 
be well ventilated and inaccessible to birds and other animals.
            (C) Speciﬁ  c toilets shall be constructed for customers and shall be loca ted at a suﬃ  cient 
distance and in other directions with automatic closing doors.
            (D) If the catering area is an enclosed space, air conditioning or ventilation should be 
provided and fans as well as absorbing fans should be installed.
            (E) Adequate space should be provided for services to move food here and there.
     
   (F) Hand washing facilities should be provided before and af ter meals and promotional 
advertisements and guidelines should be aﬃ  xed.
    
    (G) Tables and chairs should be made of easy-to-clean and w aterproof material.
   
 (4)   Ensure that air conditioners operate at adequate temperatures when adequate ventilation or 
air conditioning is provided in the premises, and that all air conditioning systems should be 
airtight.
 
    
 (5)     For those working on the premises,
                (A) If they are residing, the accommodation sho uld have adequate sanitary facilities and 
that place should be in a place separate from the food preparat ion, food production or raw 
material storage area.
                (B) A minimum of four square meters of space sh ould be reserved for one person to 
sleep while being a resident employee.
             
    (C) Separate toilet and bathroom facilities should be provi ded for both men and women.
 

<!-- page 282 -->

282A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
(6)  The internal structure of the premises should be designed so that customers can order food with 
adequate space with physical distance when required. 
   
 (7)           Facilities should be provided for persons with disabilities and persons with special needs to 
enter in accordance with the prescribed standards. 
   
 (8)  There should be adequate parking facilities for customers . 
   
 (9)         Automatic generators and water storage facilities should be available in the event of a power 
outage of suﬃ  cient capacity to be utilized in the event of an emergency po wer outage or 
water connection failure. 
   
 (10)  Internal drainage and eﬄ   uent discharge from the premises shall be directed to a ditch  or 
suction pit, exceeding 15.25 m from the water source. 
   
8.   Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a l icense under this by-law the Chairman;
 
  (1) Shall issue a license for the premises to the applicant i n accordance with the information 
contained in Article 6.
  (2) If the conditions mentioned in Article 6 are not complied  with, the relevant application 
should be rejected with reasons.    
 
   
9.  (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be determined 
and declared annually by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
  (2) It should be lawful for the council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspections 
in connection with the issuance of a license 
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31st of the year in which the license applies. 
   
11.  All persons licensed under this by-law shall act in accord ance with the following conditions herein.
    
 (1) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman from t ime to time under the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been  declared 
throughout Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or in any pa rt of the territory or in any 
case where an epidemic has been declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, the premises shall be mai ntained subject to each 
such rule 
 (2) Every person employed on the premises shall, in accordance  with the regulations made 
under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, act in accordance with all 
orders made by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health in any case 
where an epidemic is declared. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the area o f territory, service should not be 
provided to all persons who visit the premises seeking services  unless it is in accordance 
with the relevant health instructions issued. 
Issuing a license
Fees for a 
license 
Testing fees
Validity period
Conditions 
applicable to
 a license

<!-- page 283 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
283A
 (4)  Health safety instructions imposed by the Director Genera l of Health Services or the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman as per their instructions in the event of an epidemic or 
risk of an epidemic in the area of  territory, should be implemented and the licensee should 
be satisﬁ ed of doing so. 
   
 (5)  All drains in the premises should be maintained in such a  way that they can be easily drained, 
and waste water, sewage discharged from the premises should be diverted to the soakage 
pits, septic tank or central treatment unit according to the approved methods and necessary 
measures should be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6)  All toilets and washrooms on the premises should be clean ed regularly with disinfectant and 
proper arrangements should be made to ensure that they are being done so. 
   
 (7)  The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises should be arranged in such a way that it d oes not slip 
easily, and in case of any inconvenience during cleaning, sign boards should be kept in that 
place so that the customers can see them. 
   
 (8)  Drainage system should be free of retention of water and cleaned twice daily with 
disinfectants. 
   
 (9)  No drains, sewage pipes, or culverts on the premises shou ld be routed to any public drain or 
outlying area.
   
 (10)  The premises should be maintained in such a way that the re is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (11)  Adequate facilities should be in place to regulate the t emperature required for cooking and 
refrigeration, and records should be maintained to that eﬀ ect. 
   
 (12)  All equipment and utensils used for food preparation sho uld be maintained in accordance 
with the following requirements. 
   
   (A) All utensils and equipment used in food preparation shal l be made of non-absorbent 
materials that do not emit any toxic substances, ﬂ  avors or odors and should be made of 
stainless materials.
   (B) All equipment and tools should be of a nature as to be e asily cleaned.
   (C) Containers used for disposal of waste should be made of metal or non-corrosive materials 
with lids.
   (D) All equipment, tool maintained must be of a condition su itable to be used. 
   
 (13)  If food is to be distributed outside the premises during  production, there must be a designated 
area for it. 
   
 (14)  Containers used for food distribution should be such tha t they can be distributed in a manner 
that does not harm the taste of the food. 

<!-- page 284 -->

284A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (15)  Premises should have separate refrigeration facilities f or storing goods used for food 
preparation and cooked food or similar.  
   
 (16)  Premises should have water storage facilities and the re levant containers should be 
stainless. 
   
 (17)  Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation should be  thoroughly washed, cleaned and 
used. 
   
 (18)  Water used in the premises should be kept in non-hazardo us containers free from being 
polluted. 
   
 (19)  The ice used in the premises should be made from drinkin g water. 
   
 (20)  Pipelines carrying water within the premises should be m aintained so that they can be 
separately identiﬁ ed from any other pipeline. 
   
 (21)  A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement should be in place to ensure that all c ooked food on the 
premises is delivered to the lodgers without hazard, and that p ersons with speciﬁ c tasks 
should be employed to regulate it. 
   
 (22)  Fish and meat brought in for serving should be stored in  a separate refrigerator on the 
premises and should always be kept at a temperature of two degr ees without being 
contaminated Celsius until used. 
   
 (23)  Relevant prices for all food items for sale on-premises must be displayed under the sample 
or otherwise. 
   
 (24)  If an epidemic has been declared under the Quarantine an d Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
within the territory and regulations applicable to it or if there is a requirement that all persons 
in the territory should wear masks when entering the society due to the risk of any epidemic 
disease, no person without wearing a mask should be allowed to enter the premises for 
dealings. 
   
 (25)  All food items kept on the premises must be kept safe fr om contact with anyone outside 
the premises and the ordered food must be served after the food has been ordered. No food 
or leftovers so served should be kept for resale, and if there are any leftovers of the served 
food, they should be given to the person who ordered it to be taken. 
 (26)  Food for sale on the premises should not be kept in such  a way as to cause contamination, 
and all activities such as serving food, packing for transportation, etc. should be carried out 
in a proper manner using appropriate gloves. 
   
 (27)  By everyone involved in serving, consuming, or packing f ood on the premises;
   (A) Should not touch food with your hands or ﬁ  ngers openly.
   (B) Money should not be used while engaging in any form of s ervice.
   (C) Utensils and gloves used for touching food should be in a good condition to be used.

<!-- page 285 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
285A
   (D) A clean towel should be used to wipe both hands,
   (E) The bottom of a used cup, plate or other container shoul d always be kept out of contact  
 with any food.
   (F) All utensils used for food serving should be kept clean and in separate containers,
   (G) Employees should work to ensure that any of their work o r a container will not in any  
 way cause food contamination or germs to be spread in a contai ner,
   (H) What is taken for food wrapping should not be a source o f food poisoning in any  
 way. 
   
 (28)  If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman unde r the instructions of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been  declared in the territory 
or in any case where an epidemic has been declared under the re gulations made under 
the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, all person s engaged preparation, 
consumption, serving and packing of food should maintain the premises in accordance with 
the orders of the Chairman issued under the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector , in addition to  the provisions 
of this By-Laws. 
   
 (29)  Facilities should be provided to pre-ordered and take -a way food as much as possible, a 
separate window on the premises should be maintained for that p urpose and instead of 
placing menus on tables, they should be placed so that the recipes are displayed on a screen 
as much as possible. 
   
 (30)  (A) Any work related to the production of food in the pr emises shall not be carried out in 
such a manner as to open it to a public road or public space, or to open air from such a public 
road or open space to the public, and food should be prepared in a specially enclosed space 
within the premises.
 
   (B) Chimneys and suction fans shall be installed so that hot  air and steam generated in the 
enclosed space for food production can ﬂ ow easily.
   (C) Noise from any approved activity in food production shal l be in such a manner as not to 
disturb the public or consumers in any way.
 
 (31)  Tables for serving and dine in on the premises should be  kept very clean and disinfected 
after each serving and use and the towels used should be kept clean. 
   
 (32)  Surfaces in the premises that come in contact with custo mers should be cleaned regularly 
with disinfectant. 

<!-- page 286 -->

286A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (33)  All cooked food that can be easily contaminated on the p remises should be kept at a 
temperature not exceeding four degrees Celsius or not less than sixty degrees Celsius except 
in the following cases. Occasions where this is not applicable should be as follows;
   (A) In cases where the food is not exposed or displayed for sale for a whole time of more  
 than two hours or
   (B) When the preparation and presentation are to be made wit hin an short period of   
 time. 
   
 (34)  All cooked food as pastries, patties, savories, pizza an d similar food contain meat or ﬁ  sh 
that is normally sold on the premises and consumed in the condi tion which the food is sold 
should be kept in containers with covers. 
   
 (35)  Milk for use on the premises should be kept in a refrige rator at a temperature not exceeding 
seven degrees Celsius. 
   
 (36)  Suﬃ   cient hand washing facilities with sanitizers and hand drying  facilities should be 
provided in the processing area of the premises and in the dine in areas and adequate lighting 
should be maintained in the premises. 
   
 (37)  Pesticides kept in the premises should be kept in a seal ed container at a speciﬁ c place in the 
premises. 
   
 (38)  The area for staﬀ   facilities in the premises should be spacious and with necess ary sanitary 
facilities and toilets for both men and women should be maintai ned in accordance with 
sanitary standards. 
   
 (39)  Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, it  should be maintained in such a way 
that it does not aﬀ ect the things used in the premises in any way and thus does n ot cause 
contamination of food. 
   
 (40)  Cleaning activities in premises should be carried out on  a regular basis subject to the 
following:
   (A) A speciﬁ  c task assignment should be maintained regarding activities su ch as the 
satisfactorily carrying out all parts of the institution and cl eaning prioritizing the speciﬁ c 
areas described in this by-law and application of disinfectants
   (B) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the work under (A) above is carried out 
precisely.
   (C) Appropriate cleaning should be done to prevent dust duri ng food preparation, serving, 
packing and consumption on the premises.
   (D) All utensils used in the serving and consumption of food  shall be maintained in such a 
manner that no portions of cooked food remain.
   (E) The water used for cleaning, detergent disinfectants sho uld be washed so that the does 
not remain on the dishes in any way.
   (F) The ceiling, walls, etc. of the premises shall be kept f ree from any insects.

<!-- page 287 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
287A
 (41)  Pets such as dogs and cats should not be kept on the pre mises in any way. 
   
 (42)  Employees working on the premises should be trained in f ood hygiene and should be 
subjected to medical examinations within a speciﬁ ed period of time to ensure that they are 
in suitable health condition. Relevant records should also be m aintained at the premises so 
that they can be inspected at any time. Also the health check-u ps for them should be both 
clinical and epidemiological. 
 
 (43)  A health monitoring system should be set up for employee s employed on the premises and 
a process should be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (44)  The waste generated on the premises should be maintained  in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the council and in accordance with the written rules 
applicable to it. 
   
 (45)  If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the  licensee himself, the Public Health 
Inspector in charge of the relevant area should be informed and  should act accordingly in 
accordance with the instructions given by him. 
   
 (46)  Everyone working on the premises should not engage in co oking packing, serving of food or 
work without necessarily cleaning after using the toilet and after touching dirt, and everyone 
who engage in those type of work should wear a clean and pocket-free apron. 
   
 (47)  Those who work as cashiers on the premises should clean their hands frequently using 
sanitizers. 
   
 (48)  Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities should be provided on the premises. 
   
 (49)  The number of persons that can be provided with dine in facilities in the premises should be 
displayed on the premises. 
   
 (50)  In the event of an outbreak of any instruction in the co mmunity to use gloves or masks in 
the community, if any person entering the premises disposes of the mask or gloves they 
are wearing on the premises, the masks or gloves should be disp osed to closed containers 
speciﬁ ed on the premises. Those waste should be disposed in accordan ce with the waste 
management program and instructions implemented by the Council without mixing with 
other wastes. 
 (51)  Anyone entering the premises for dine in should clean th eir hands from the area speciﬁ cally 
designated for this purpose. 
   
 (52)  Everyone who dine in and take-away food from the premise s should maintain proper 
distance. 
   
 (53)  Everyone who dine in on the premises should be as hygien ic as possible and always wear 
head coverings, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate hygienic clothing. 
   
 (54)  A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a 
vector or infected with wounds, skin infections or any other infectious disease should not be 
employed on the premises.

<!-- page 288 -->

288A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (55)  Everyone dine in on the premises should not engage in ac tivities such as smoking, spitting, 
coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose, which can cause food contamination.
   
 (56)  Under no circumstances should anyone on the premises be allowed to dine in with any 
indication that they may be suﬀ ering from an infectious or transmissible disease. 
   
 (57)  If any person comes to the premises for dine in or an em ployee of the premises infected with 
a transmissible disease, infectious or skin disease, the licens ee should inform the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health and after informing all persons involved in the  premises should act in 
accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the Medica l Oﬃ  cer of Health or an 
authorized Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (58)  Once the premises have been subjected to the quarantine process, no one shall enter the 
premises for dine in until the issuance of a certiﬁ cate of completion of the quarantine period 
by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector and until the pr emises have 
been completely disinfected. 
   
 (59)  The licensee must take every step to maintain the premis es in such a way that it does not 
cause food contamination during food consumption in any manner. 
   
 (60)  Relevant instructions should be prominently displayed on  the premises and should act 
upon accordingly so that everyone who dine in on the premises c an learn about the health 
precautions that take place on the premises. 
   
 (61)  The licensee must have provided all information about th e employees working on the 
premises to the Chairman. 
   
12.  (1) It shall also be lawful for the Chairman to grade a pr emises relevant to this by-law in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into account 
the eﬃ  cacy of the conditions under this by-law.  
   
  (2) When the Chairman has graded the premises under this sect ion, the grade of the premises for 
the year relevant to the license and a certiﬁ cate issued by the Chairman shall be displayed on 
the premises for the public to see.
 
13.  It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any ot her oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the necessa ry samples to inspect the premises 
in accordance with the provisions of this by-law.
    
14.  When the Chairman has recommended that the licensee should  enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking 
into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, the licensee should enter 
into a statement of agreement with the Chairman and the Chairma n should send a copy to the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
15.  When an order is in force under the Quarantine and Prevent ion of Disease Ordinance in respect of 
any epidemic situation relating to the territory, the premises shall be maintained in accordance with 
all the provisions of that Order. 
Grading premises
On-site 
inspection and 
obtaining samples

<!-- page 289 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
289A
16.  It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any ot her oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman 
to enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the nece ssary samples and to inspect the 
premises in accordance with the provisions of this by-law.
    
17.  (1) In the event of a violation of the provisions of this by-law or in a manner contrary to the 
provisions of this by-law in a premises licensed under this by-law, the Chairman should hand 
over a notice to the licensee to be compliance with the by-law notifying a speciﬁ ed period 
not exceeding thirty days. 
   
  (2) Upon submission of a notice under this section to the Lic ensee, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time on a reasonable request to grant a n additional period to act in 
accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period wh ich is granted so should be 
subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the  period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst 
notice. 
   
18.  The Chairman should cancel the relevant license in the eve nt that the licensee fails to comply with 
the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above. 
   
19.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license obtained under this By-law or in violation of 
the provisions of the by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable 
to a penalty under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. Further, after 
being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, and in the event of further breach of the law after a notice has 
been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized By him, breach of the law must be subject to 
an additional ﬁ ne referred to in Sub-section 122 (2) of the old Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 
for each day in which they continue the breach of the law. 
   
20. Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By-law; 
            
  “Council” means the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
 “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at  
  present or the persons who perform the duties of that positio n,
       "Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health  
  Division relevant to the Pradeshiya Sabha area,
      “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached  
  to the the Pradeshiya Sabha or oﬃ   ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health working in the  
  territory of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
           "Licensee" means an institution or a person who has obtained a license under thi by-law,
           "Authorized Oﬃ  cer" means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at 
   that time.
          "Contamination" refers to the entry or occurrence of any contamination substance in a food   
  substance,
Power to enter 
the premises
Cancellation of 
the license
Penalty
Clariﬁ cation.

<!-- page 290 -->

290A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
          "Disinfectants" reduce the amount of microorganisms in the environment by chemicals or physical  
  means that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the foo d,
           "Food hygiene" refers to all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability  
  of food at all times in the food chain,
           A "hazard" is a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects.
          "Food safety" also means the responsibility of the co nsumer to prepare, process, sell, store,
    transport, and not cause any harm to the consumer during or  after dine in,
          "Food" refers to the products used to prepare food and food being prepared for sale an a institution  
  maintained for human consumption,
          "Reasonable time" refers to any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work,
          "Basic Law" refers to the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,  No. 15 of 1987. 
   
21.  If there are variations between the Sinhala, English and T amil texts in this by-law, then the Sinhala 
text will prevail. 
         Application Number:
Fill up the “A” Section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Oﬃ  ce / 
Wethara Sub Oﬃ  ce of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head Oﬃ  ce / Wethara Sub Oﬃ  ce
Application for a Trade License for the year 20 ..........
 "A"
1. Name of trader: ......................................................................................................................
2. Name and address of the place of business: ............................................... ......................................
 .............................................................. ...........................................................................................…..
 .............................................................. ...........................................................................................…..
3. Personal address of the trader: ...............................................................................................
4. National Identity Card Number of the trader: ........................................... .............................
5. Telephone Number: ................................................................................................ ..........................
6. Name and address of the owner of the building where the business is located : .............................
 .............................................................. ...........................................................................................…..
7. Grama Niladhari Division Number and Name: ......................................... ........................................
8. Assessment Number and Street of the business place : ....................................................................
9. Commencement date of the Business : .............................................................................................
10. Nature of the business for which the license is applied for: ..........................................................
It is requested to grand the license to carry on the above said business for the year 20 ............ 
Date: .....................              ...............................
                                                                                                             Signature of the applicant
Variation between 
texts.

<!-- page 291 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
291A
For oﬃ  cial use
"B" Revenue Inspector Report
1.  Extent of the business premises: ...................................................................................................
2. Number of employees in the place of business: .............. ...................................................................
3.  Annual value of the place of business: ...............................................................................................
4.  Nature of the building: ........................................................................................................................
5.  Nature of the Business (As per Gazette): ......................... Permanent / Temporary ..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned
 .............................................................. ..............................................................................................
 .............................................................. ..............................................................................................
 .............................................................. ..............................................................................................
 .............................................................. ..............................................................................................
    
Date: ...................                                                                ..................................... ..
                                                                                                                        Revenu e Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health: - ................................................
I refer for your recommendations.
                                                                                                               ...................................... 
                Chief Management Service Oﬃ  cer (Revenue)
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health: .............................................
I recommend / do not recommend granting license for this busine ss. Please inform the Chairman of 
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha to instruct the applicant to fulﬁ ll the following recommendations.
1. ..............................................................................................................................................................
2. ..............................................................................................................................................................
3. ..............................................................................................................................................................
4. ..............................................................................................................................................................
5. ..............................................................................................................................................................
6. ..............................................................................................................................................................
7. ..............................................................................................................................................................
8. ..............................................................................................................................................................
9. ..............................................................................................................................................................
10. ............................................................................................................................................................
Date :- .......................
                                                                                                               ............... ....................
                                                                                                           Public Health Inspe ctor

<!-- page 292 -->

292A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
  As per the above said report of Public Health Inspector on th e above industry / business, I 
recommend / do not recommend to issue the license for the year 20 ............
                                                                                                                         ..................................
                                                                                                          Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
Secretary
I recommend / do not recommend the license. The following conditions must be fulﬁ lled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date : ..........................          ...................................
                                                                                                         Chief Revenue Inspect or
Chairman
I recommend / I do not recommend issuing the above license and forward.
                                                                                                     
Date : ...............................                             ...........................
                                                                                                                          Secr etary
Instructions of the Chairman
  On the recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health, I approve / do not approve the issuance 
of the license for ............................................................................................... being carried out at
................................................................................., for the year of 20……..
                                                                                                                   .............................
 Date: ................                Chairman,
                                                                                                           Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Note of Management Service Oﬃ  cer :
License Fee Rs.   :  .......................................... .
Receipt No. & Date :  ......................................... ..           ................................................
License No. & Date :  HO/PS/TL/........................ Managem ent Servicers Oﬃ  cer (Revenue)

<!-- page 293 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
293A
BY-LAW RELATING TO THE BATHING PLACES WITHIN 
THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
1.  It is hereby informed that the by-Laws on maintenance of pu blic bathing places, which is speciﬁ ed 
in the Gazette notiﬁ cation No. 584 and dated 10.11.1989 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka, that is adopted by Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha, same is pu blished in Gazette notiﬁ cation 
No. 520/7 and dated 23.08.1988 same was proposed by the Minister in charge of Local Government 
of the Western Province under section 2 of the Local Government Authorities (Standard By-Laws) 
Act, No. 6 of 1952 which should be read with Section 2 of the P rovincial Councils (Consequential 
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, will be repealed after 31.12.2022 without prejudice the actions taken 
so far under the said by-Laws and this by-law will be enacted to regulate, supervise and control the 
maintenance of public bathing places within the jurisdiction of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
    
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-law relating to the bathing places within the Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section  126(IX)  
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act. 
   
4.  A bathing area, a well or a pool of water belonging to a ri ver, stream or canal which exists or 
is maintained as a public bathing place for public bathing with in the territory of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha  (hereinafter referred to as authority area)  shall be  a pplicable for the purposes under this 
by-law. 
   
5.  When it comes to a public bathing area belonging to a river , stream or canal located within the 
authority area, with respect to each of those public bathing areas, 
   
 (1)  The place shall be maintained under a notice board with t he words declaring it a public 
bathing place. 
   
 (2)  Notices shall be displayed about the area that can be use d safely as a bathing place and the 
safety precautions to be taken in a way that makes it easy for the public to use the bathing 
area. 
   
 (3)  Stairs shall be made with cement and it shall not be slip pery in such a way to allow safe 
access to water for bathing. 
   
 (4)  Whenever possible women and men shall have separate acces s to the water. 
   
 (5)  Maintaining the bathing area shall not endanger any tree in the river, stream, canal or lake 
reserve where the bathing area is located. 
   
 (6)  Normally the bathing area shall be used from 06.00 a.m to  07.00 p.m and the bathing area 
could be used at night only if adequate electric lighting is provided at the location.
 
 (7)  Separate places to change clothes shall be set up for men  and women.
 
 (8)  Usage of alcohol shall be prohibited in any form around t he bathing area and notices shall 
be prominently displayed in that regard. 
Short name
Maintaining
 a public 
bathing place

<!-- page 294 -->

294A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
6.  The Pradeshiya Sabha may provide and maintain additional se rvices and facilities for the users of the 
bathing place, and it shall be lawful to charge a fee as decided and published by the Pradeshiya Sabha 
for such services and facilities. 
   
7.  When there is a public bathing well or pool located within the authority area, with respect to each of 
those public bathing well or pool, 
   
 (1)  The place should be maintained under a notice board with the words declaring it a public 
bathing place. 
   
 (2)  Around the well or pool shall have a protective wall of t he height of at least 0.6096 metres 
above ground level and at least to a similar depth below ground level the well or pool should 
be permanently build securely with cement or granite. 
   
 (3)  Whenever possible, the public bathing place shall be main tained so that it can be used 
separately for men and women, and separate places for women and  men to change clothes 
shall be maintained. 
   
 (4)  Drainage should be arranged in such a way that the water used for bathing is easily prevented 
from leaking into the bathing well or pool and drains easily out of it. 
   
 (5)  Buckets and ropes shall be there as needed to use the wat er for bathing, and the buckets shall 
be painted to prevent rust. 
   
8.  It is lawful to appoint committees by the Chairman consisti ng of representatives of the residents 
in the vicinity of every public bathing place to advise the Cha irman in such matters to assist in the 
action taken by the Pradeshiya Sabha to maintain the public bat hing places in accordance with the 
provisions of section 4 and 5 above.  
   
9. (1)  The function of a committee appointed under section 6 a bove shall be as follows :
   (A) If there are instances where it is observed that the use rs of the public bathing places do 
not comply with the provisions of this by-law, they shall report thereon to the Chairman.
   (B) To inquire into the requirements of the relevant place for the beneﬁ t of the public and to 
advise and report to the Chairman.
   (C) To perform relevant functions with the participation of labor in cases where there is a 
need to clean the bathing pool and well for the beneﬁ t of public health.
   (D) To take all possible steps to protect the water sources and the surrounding ﬂ ora and 
fauna, and to advise the Chairman in this regard. 
   
 (2)  Committees appointed for the purpose under sub-section (i ) shall gather from time to time 
and shall inform the Chairman of the decisions to be taken. 
   
10.  It is the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to take all possibl e steps to maintain the proper public baths 
located within the authority area. 
When it comes 
to a public 
bathing well 
or pool
Setting a fee
Appointment of 
committees.
The function 
of a committee.

<!-- page 295 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
295A
11. (1)  It is lawful to prohibit the use of any public bathing  place for a speciﬁ ed period of time by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of any epidemic 
situation under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or any of the regulations 
made under it, applicable to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka.    
 
 (2)  Such an order shall be prominently displayed in a public bathing place. 
   
12.  No person shall bath or use the public bathing place for a ny other purpose when the Chairman has 
prohibited using a public bathing place under the section 9 of this by-law during the period of such 
prohibition. 
   
13. (1)  In case of any epidemic of any infectious or transmiss ible disease in the area, the Chairman 
shall issue instructions on the procedure to be followed by a person taking a bath in or using 
a public bathing place in accordance with the instructions give n by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health.    
 (2)  All provisions under Sub-section (1) above shall be promi nently displayed in the public 
bathing place and all persons using the public bathing place shall obey the rules. 
   
14.  Anyone who suﬀ ers from an epidemic or spends a quarantine period after an epidemic or on quarantine 
period on suspicion of such an illness should not use a public bath. 
  
15.  In a public bathing place,
  (A) Disposal of the waste generated shall be as speciﬁ  ed by the Chairman and no waste shall be 
released into the external environment.
  (B) A garbage bin shall be speciﬁ  cally reserved and maintained in the place to dispose things such 
as face masks or gloves worn by any person and shall be disposed only to the garbage bin.
  (C) The waste collected shall be disposed according to the wa ste management program 
implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
16.  Water shall not be taken for drinking purposes from a publ ic bathing place in any instance. 
   
17.  No person shall urinate or defecate in the vicinity of a public bathing place unless there are toilets and 
latrines provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha in an area designated as a public bathing place. 
   
18.  Shall not wash vehicles, machineries or agrochemical spraying machines in a place that is maintained 
as a public bathing place.
 
19.  No person shall bathe, wash or enter any animal in or near  any place designated as a public bathing 
place.
 
   
20.  No person shall roam, walk around a public bathing place w ithout any purpose. 
   
21.  The public bathing place shall be regularly inspected by a n oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
ensure that it is in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law. 
Prohibition of 
use when 
an epidemic 
is declared
Publication of 
regulations
 relating
 to an epidemic
 situation
Disposal of waste
That bathing and
 entering animals 
is prohibited

<!-- page 296 -->

296A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
22.  It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a pubic bathing place against the provisions of this by-law or violate the 
provisions of this by-law and after being found guilty by a cou rt of competent jurisdiction shall be 
subject to a ﬁ ne under Sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act' No. 15 of 1987.  
   
23.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law;
   “Pradeshiya Sabha” means Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha too;
   "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Chairman of the Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha for the time or the person who perform the duties of that position,
   “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person holds the oﬃ  ce of that position for the Division of 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the Homagama local authority at the time;
   "Authorized Oﬃ   cer" means an oﬃ  cer authorized by the then Chairman in writing. 
   
24.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 ---------------------------------------------------------
BY LAW ON MOBILE TRADE IN THE HOMAGAMA PRADESHIYA SABHA
1. It is hereby informed that the by-Laws on Itinerant vendors,  which is speciﬁ  ed in the Gazette 
notiﬁ cation No. 1986 and dated 23.09.2016 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that 
is adopted by Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha, same is published in Gazette notiﬁ cation No. 1947/ 6
 and dated 28.12.2015 same was proposed by the Minister in char ge of Local Government of the 
Western Province under Section 2 of the Local Government Author ities (Standard By-Laws) Act, 
No. 6 of 1952 which should be read with Section 2 of the Provin cial Councils (Consequential 
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, will be repealed after 31.12.2 022 without prejudice the actions 
taken so far under the said by-Laws and this by-law will be ena cted to regulate, supervise and 
control the Itinerant vendors who engaged in business within th e jurisdiction of the Homagama 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
   
2. This By-law is cited as the by-law on the mobile trade of th e Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate thes e By-laws by virtue of Section 126(X) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-section 122 of the said Act.
   
4. A person who sells any commodity including goods or food whi le visiting the Homagama 
Pradeshiya Sabha area (hereinafter referred to as the authority area) shall be obtained a license from 
the Chairman under this By-law.  
   
5. (1) Every person applying for a license under Section 3 abov e shall apply for it through an 
application form obtained from the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 (2) The fee to be charged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for issuing an application for a license under 
this by-law shall be as determined by the Council. 
Quality.
Deﬁ nition.
Inconsistency 
between texts.
Short Title
Obtaining
 a License
Applying for
 a License

<!-- page 297 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
297A
6.  The Chairman shall not issue a license in this regard unles s all the persons applying for a license 
under this by-law as a mobile trader have fulﬁ lled the following: 
   
 (1) The identities of the trader or persons engaged in the mob ile trade shall be veriﬁ ed in an 
acceptable manner. 
   
 (2) If a bicycle, tricycle, cart, or motor vehicle is used for  commercial purposes, evidence must 
be provided that it was designed or prepared in such a way that  it can be used for such 
purposes. 
   
 (3) If loudspeakers are used in the mobile trade, it should be  ascertained that a license has 
been obtained from the relevant competent authority in the even t that a relevant license is 
required. 
 (4) An outline of the areas intended for mobile trade within t he authority area shall be 
provided. 
   
 (5) If cooked food is sold in the mobile trade, all persons in volved in the handling the relevant 
food shall have a certiﬁ cate of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the area in accordance with 
the format set out in this Schedule of the By-Laws. 
   
7.  The fee to be charged for a license issued under this by-la w shall be a proportion to the period 
for which the license is requested and the fee shall be determi ned and declared by the Sabha by a 
resolution. 
   
8.  The maximum validity period of a license issued under this by-law shall expire on 31st December of 
the year in which the license is issued and the relevant license may be issued for a period for which 
the license is applied for in the calendar year. 
   
9.  Every mobile trader shall keep the relevant license in his possession. 
   
10.  A license issued under this by-law shall be valid only for  the period of its issuance unless it is 
revoked in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
   
11.  All persons licensed under this by-law shall conduct trade  in accordance with the following 
conditions. 
   
 (1) There shall be no noise or air pollution to the public due  to the mobile trade or its 
publicity. 
   
 (2) (i) Any waste generated during the mobile trade shall not be disposed to the surrounding 
environment; all waste should be handed over in accordance with  the waste management 
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha in the area. 
  (ii) If the licensee manages the waste generated by himself, a certiﬁ cate in that regard 
shall be submitted and consent obtained from the Public Health Inspector of the authority 
area.  
Conditions 
to issue a License 
Fee for a License
Conditions 
Applicable to
 a License

<!-- page 298 -->

298A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (3) The trade shall be in accordance with the instructions and  criteria put in place by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event that 
there is a risk of an epidemic in the whole or part of the territory of Sri Lanka. 
   
 (4) The license issued under this by-law shall be kept in the possession of the trader at all 
times and shall be submitted for inspection at any time upon re quest by the Chairman or an 
authorized oﬃ  cer, a police oﬃ  cer. 
   
 (5) In the event of any outbreak of any contagious disease or contagious disease relating to 
the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention Ordina nce and any part of Sri 
Lanka within or within the authority area of Sri Lanka, the Med ical Oﬃ  cer of Health shall 
be notiﬁ ed in that regard. The licensee must act in accordance with th e instructions and the 
licensee must be satisﬁ ed that his employees are acting accordingly.
 (6) 1. If cooked food is sold under the mobile trade,
  (i) All utensils and tools used for selling food shall be mad e of a substance which does 
not emit any toxic substance, odor or taste. Such equipment and  tools shall be made 
of non-abrasive and non-corrosive materials and shall be made o f materials that are 
resistant to continuous cleaning and disinfection.
  (ii) All equipment and tools shall be designed in such a mann er that antiseptics can be used 
for easy cleaning to prevent unhygienic.
  (iii) If frozen material is sold, it shall be ﬁ  tted with compatible storage and temperature 
measuring or temperature recording equipment.
  (iv) Separate enclosed waste bins shall be maintained for the  collection of waste 
accumulated during trade. However, when disposing of items such as face masks, one 
should keep sealed containers so that they do not mix with other waste.
  (v) All equipment and tools used shall be in good condition.
  (vi) Packaging should be designed and maintained to prevent f ood contamination and to 
prevent food from pests during the sale.
  (vii) Whatever equipment is used to serve food to the consume r they shall not be prepared 
in manner that cannot be reused.
  (viii) Food kept for sale shall not be contaminated in any wa y.
  (ix) Catching food shall not be done using money and a separa te person should be employed 
for money transactions.
  (x) Metal grip should be used to hold food. 

<!-- page 299 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
299A
 (7) The mobile trade shall not disturb the movement of passeng ers or vehicles in any 
way. 
   
 (8) Trade shall be conducted only within a territory valid for  the license and in no way exceed 
the permitted period speciﬁ ed in the license. 
   
 (9) A person suﬀ  ering from or infecting or infecting any person with any form of contagious 
disease shall not engage in trade or trade-related assistance a nd shall maintain the sanitized 
material to be utilized when necessary. 
   
 (10) The meat of any animal subject to the Slaughter Ordinance  shall not be sold under the mobile 
Trade. 
   
 (11) No mobile trader should stay in one place for long period s of time. 
   
12.  Even if there is a license issued under this by-law, the C hairman shall, on the advice of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health, determine in or within the authority area or a ny part of it, if there is a risk of 
contagious or contagious disease spreading.
  (i) The activity may be permanently prohibited under a licens e issued.
  (ii) Areas of trade may be restricted under the license issue d.
  (iii) Operation under the license may be suspended. 
   
13. It is legal for the Chairman or an authorized oﬃ   cer to obtain a sample of a food, commodity or item 
sold by a mobile trader at its price, and no licensee shall refuse or interfere with it.  
   
14. If a person engages in mobile trade violates the provisions  of this By-Laws and disregards the 
instructions given to comply with the By-Laws, it shall be lawf ul for the Chairman to revoke a 
license issued under Article 3 of this By-Laws. 
   
15. It is an oﬀ  ense to engage in the mobile trade without obtaining a license  under this by-law and to 
engage in the trade without a valid license, and after being co nvicted by a Magistrate's Court, he 
shall be subjected to a penalty under Sub - section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 
1987. 
   
16.  Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By-law, this By-law;  
  "Pradeshiya Sabha" means Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the post of Chairman of  the Pradeshiya Sabha at present 
or the person who performs the function of that post. 
   
  A "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" is a person who holds that post in a particula r Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health division within the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha at that time.
  A "Public Health Inspector" is a person who holds the post of  a Public Health Inspector in a 
division of the Pradeshiya Sabha area at that time.
Obtaining 
Samples
Penalty for
 violation
Deﬁ nitions

<!-- page 300 -->

300A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
  "Contamination" refers to the entry or formation of a palatab le substance into a food or food 
background
  “Food hygiene” includes all the conditions, steps and practic es necessary to ensure the safety 
and suitability of food at all stages of the food chain;
  "Mobile trade" means the trade of goods, food, or any other c ommodity by oneself or with 
the help of an animal, or by car, cart, bicycle, or tricycle. 
  "Motor vehicle" also means the deﬁ  nition given in the Motor Vehicles Ordinance.
 
17.  If there is a discrepancy between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this By-law then the Sinhala 
text will prevail.    
        
        Application Number:
Fill up the “A” Section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Oﬃ  ce / Wethara 
Sub Oﬃ  ce of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head Oﬃ  ce / Wethara Sub Oﬃ  ce
Application for a Trade License for the year 20 ..........
 "A"
1. Name of trader: .............................................................................................................................
2. Name and address of the place of business: ..............................................................................................
 ..................................................................................................................................................................…..
 ..................................................................................................................................................................…..
3. Personal address of the trader: ...................................................................................................................
4. National Identity Card Number of the trader: ...........................................................................................
5. Telephone Number: ...................................................................................................................................
6. Name and address of the owner of the building where the business is located : ......................................
 ..................................................................................................................................................................…..
7. Grama Niladhari Division Number and Name: ......................................... ...............................................
8. Assessment Number and Street of the business place : .............................................................................
9. Commencement date of the Business : ......................................................................................................
10. Nature of the business for which the license is applied for: ....................................................................
It is requested to grand the license to carry on the above said business for the year 20 ............ 
Date: .....................             ...............................
                                                                                                             Signature of the applicant
Inconsistency 
between Texts.

<!-- page 301 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
301A
For oﬃ  cial use
"B" Revenue Inspector Report
1.  Extent of the business premises: ...................................................................................................
2. Number of employees in the place of business: ........................................... .....................................
3.  Annual value of the place of business: ........................................... ....................................................
4.  Nature of the building: ............................................. ..........................................................................
5.  Nature of the Business (As per Gazette): ......................... Permanent / Temporary ..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
    
Date: ...................                                                                ..................................... ..
                                                                                                                        Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health: - ............................................. ....
I refer for your recommendations.
                                                                                                        ............................................... 
           Chief Management Service Oﬃ   cer (Revenue)
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health: .............................................
I recommend / do not recommend granting license for this busine ss. Please inform the Chairman of 
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha to instruct the applicant to fulﬁ ll the following recommendations.
1. ..............................................................................................................................................................
2. ..............................................................................................................................................................
3. ..............................................................................................................................................................
4. ..............................................................................................................................................................
5. ..............................................................................................................................................................
6. ..............................................................................................................................................................
7. ..............................................................................................................................................................
8. ..............................................................................................................................................................
9. ..............................................................................................................................................................
10. ............................................................................................................................................................
Date :- .......................
                                                                                                                      ...................................
                                                                                                          Public Health Inspec tor

<!-- page 302 -->

302A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
As per the above said report of Public Health Inspector on the above industry / business, I recommend / do 
not recommend to issue the license for the year 20 ............
                                                                                                                  ............ ......................
                                                                                                          Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
Secretary
I recommend / do not recommend the license. The following conditions must be fulﬁ lled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date : ..........................                       ...................................
                                                                                                         Chief Revenue Inspect or
Chairman
I recommend / I do not recommend issuing the above license and forward.
                                                                                                     
Date : ...............................                             ...........................
                                                                                                                          Secr etary
Instructions of the Chairman
On the recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, I approve / do not approve the issuance of the  
license for ................................................................................. being carried out at.....................................
............................................, for the year of 20……..
                                                                                                                     ......... ....................
 Date: ................                        Chairman
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Note of Management Service Oﬃ  cer
License Fee Rs.   :  .......................................... .
Receipt No. & Date :  ......................................... ..           ................................................
License No. & Date :  HO/ PS/ TL/....................... Manage ment Servicers Oﬃ  cer (Revenue)

<!-- page 303 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
303A
BY - LAW RELATING TO MARKETS
1.  It is hereby informed that the By-Laws on public fairs, whi ch is speciﬁ ed in the Gazette notiﬁ cation 
No. 584 and dated 10.11.1989 of the Democratic Socialist Republ ic of Sri Lanka, that is adopted 
by Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha, same is published in Gazette notiﬁ cation No. 520/7 and dated 
23.08.1988 same was proposed by the Minister in charge of Local  Government of the Western 
Province under Section 2 of the Local Government Authorities (S tandard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 
1952 which should be read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, 
No. 12 of 1989, will be repealed after 31.12.2022 without preju dice the actions taken so far under 
the said by-Laws and this by-law will be enacted to regulate, s upervise and control the activities of 
public and private fairs within the jurisdiction of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This By - Law is cited as the By - Laws for markets of Homa gama Pradeshiya Sabah.
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section  126(XII)   
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-section 122 of the said Act. 
   
4.  This by-law refers to a public or private market that is ma intained for purchase or sale of goods or 
materials for the public on behalf of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha or any other party located within 
the authority area of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as authority area) for 
the purpose.     
   
5.  All public markets and private markets located within the a uthority area shall be maintained under the 
management of a market caretaker (hereinafter referred to as the premises at some places).  
   
6.  All public markets and private markets established and main tained within the authority area shall be 
constructed to meet the following requirements. 
 (1) Permanent buildings pertaining to the premises shall be co nstructions constructed under the 
Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or in accordance  with the provisions of 
the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance. 
 (2) Construction on the premises shall be well made of permane nt structure and maintained in 
good condition. 
 (3) There shall be platforms for the sale of goods and materia ls for each permanent construction 
on the premises, and the front of the platforms shall be adequately spaced so that buyers can 
move around. 
 (4) Under the permanent construction of the premises, each sta ll shall be at least two square 
meters wide.
 
 (5) All buildings related to the premises shall be constructed  with access facilities for persons 
with disabilities and special needs.
 (6) All construction on the premises shall be securely constru cted, and all construction materials 
on the premises shall be free from contaminants and materials t hat are not suitable for food 
or stock, as well as those that do not emit toxic gases.
 
That the market 
should be under
 the management
 of a caretaker
Requirements for
 a public and 
private market
 Short Title

<!-- page 304 -->

304A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (7) The internal layout of the buildings on the premises shall  be arranged in such a way that they 
can be separated, divided and positioned to prevent cross-pollution in the premises.
 
 (8) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed s o that the hygienic operations of the 
process from bringing the goods to the premises to the sale can be carried out properly.
 
 (9) There should proper access to the premises for the vehicle s carrying goods to the premises 
and the food items in the premises shall not be polluted in any way due to the motor vehicles 
entering the premises.
 
 (10) There should be adequate parking facilities for vehicles carrying goods and customers inside 
the premises.
 
 (11) The ﬂ  oor should be prepared in a manner that water does not remain in the premises and 
arranged in a manner that all the drains and rainwater in the premises ﬂ ow easily.
 
 (12) Sewage pits for the discharge of wastewater within the pr emises shall be constructed in 
accordance with the approved design and shall be located at a d istance of at least 15.25 m 
from a water source and shall not be exposed to the outside.
 
 (13) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the prem ises and maintained separately for 
men and women. The provisions of the By-Laws relating to Public latrine in respect of public 
latrine maintained within the premises shall apply with the required minor changes. 
 (14) Adequate space should be provided within the premises to allow the sale and purchase 
of goods while maintaining adequate social distance, and the in ternal structure should 
be maintained to facilitate the movement of goods within the pr emises without causing 
inconvenience to customers.
 
 (15) Every platform set up for the sale of goods should have a  non-slip, waterproof, appropriate 
surface and be easy to clean with antiseptic. 
 (16) The premises should be zoned according to what is for sal e, and no goods other than speciﬁ ed 
in the particular zone shall not be sold.
 
 (17) No item or items for sale should be kept in direct contac t with the ground and should always 
be placed on a rack with a suﬃ  cient height above the ﬂ oor for sale.
 
 (18) It should be the duty of the caretaker of the market to m ake room for the sale so that there is 
enough space for the customers to move around in the premises to buy the goods.
 
 (19) Equipments used for weighing and measuring in the premise s should be with proper 
standard.  
 (20) Animals such as dogs and cats should not be allowed to ga ther or stay in the premises.

<!-- page 305 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
305A
7. Separate stalls shall be set up in the area reserved for the  sale of ﬁ  sh in the premises and the 
following should be completed in this regard. 
 (1) Platforms for the sale of ﬁ  sh should be constructed with solid material and drains should also 
be constructed in a manner that the water can ﬂ ow easily.
 
 (2) All equipment in the ﬁ  sh storage, display, and sale areas should be free from germ a nd 
should not emit contaminants or toxic gases into the ﬁ sh.
 
 (3) Light bulbs and other ﬁ  xtures hanging above the ﬁ sh for sale should be in a safe condition 
and covered  
 (4) The ﬁ  sh market shall be kept clean and disinfected and before start ing any sale the place 
shall be cleaned with anti-septic. 
 
 (5) The parts that contact with the ﬁ  sh kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and should 
not be contaminated in any way.
 
 (6) Water from the cleaning and use of ﬁ  sh stalls should be diverted to a septic tank or suction pit 
under a separate drainage system and should not be in contact with other drains in the area.
 
 (7) The eﬄ   uent collected during the sale of ﬁ  sh should be temporarily collected in sealed 
containers so that it does not mix with other eﬄ   uents in the premises and disposed of in 
accordance with the waste management system implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or as 
per the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
 
 (8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of  ﬁ sh other than kept for sale.
 
 (9) If the ﬁ  sh is stored on site, adequate refrigerators should be availab le and the relevant 
refrigerators should be maintained under continuous electricity supply .
 
 (10) Fish taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natu ral temperature and not re-refrigerated 
and sold. 
 
 (11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in print ing paper or in direct contact with 
ﬁ sh. 
 (12) Fish shall not be stored in sales stall, the equipment no n-related ﬁ sh sale shall not be kept in 
the stall.  
 (13) All ﬁ  sh sellers shall wear clean clothes. 
 (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any wirtten law for the Operation of a premises for 
the sale of ﬁ sh all Such license must have been obtained by the ﬁ sh sellers in the premises, 
none those provisions shall not undermine those provisions.
Sale of ﬁ sh in the 
premises

<!-- page 306 -->

306A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
8.  If a zone is created for the sale of meat in the premises, speciﬁ c stalls shall be set up in this regard 
and the following requirement shall be completed. 
 
 (1) Relevant stalls shall be constructed in such a manner as t o be considered as a speciﬁ c premises 
for the purpose, and all relevant stalls shall be maintained under a license in accordance with 
the written rules relating to the maintenance of the premises for the sale of meat.
 
 (2) All equipment in the meat storage, display, and sale areas  should be free from germs and 
should not emit pollutants or toxic gases into the meat .
 
 (3) Light bulbs and other ﬁ  xtures hanging above the meat for sale should be in a safe condition 
and covered.  
 (4) The meat shall be kept clean and disinfected and before st arting any sale the place shall be 
cleaned with anti-septic.
 
 (5) The parts that contact with the meat kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and should 
not be contaminated in any way.
 
 (6) Water from the cleaning and use of meat stalls should be d iverted to a septic tank or suction 
pit under a separate drainage system and should not be in conta ct with other drains in the 
area.
 
 (7) The eﬄ   uent collected during the sale of meat should be temporarily collected in sealed 
containers so that it does not mix with other eﬄ   uents in the premises and disposed of in 
accordance with the waste management system implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or as 
per the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
 
 (8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of  meat other than kept for 
sale.  
 (9) If the meat is stored on site, adequate refrigerators shou ld be available and the relevant 
refrigerators should be maintained under continuous electricity supply. 
 (10) The meat taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natural temperature and not 
  re-refrigerated and sold.  
 (11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in print ing paper or in direct contact with 
the meat.
 
 (12) The meat shall not be stored in the sales stall, the equipment non-related meat sale shall not 
be kept in the stall.  
 (13) All meat sellers shall wear clean clothes.
 
 (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written la w for the operation of premises for the 
sale of meat. All such licenses must have been obtained by the meat sellers in the premises; 
none of those provisions shall not undermine these provisions. 
Sale of ﬁ sh in the 
premises

<!-- page 307 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
307A
9. Platforms for selling fruits and vegetables in the premises should be at least 45 cm above ground 
level and in the absence of such platforms, they should be placed on a board of suﬃ  cient height and 
sold. 
10. Those who engaged in sales in the premises shall use the st andardized weighing and measuring 
equipment.  
   
11. Vegetables and fruits kept for sale should never be kept in  mix with rotten vegetables and fruits 
and should always be disposed only in the containers for the di sposal of rotten vegetables and 
fruits. 
   
12. Every trader should make sure that rotten vegetables or fruits that have not been ready at any time 
for the consumption.  
   
13. Only drinking water shall be used for washing the vegetable s and fruits in the premises and the 
washing shall be done only in a designated place. 
   
14. Garbage accumulated due to sales should be disposed only in  the containers kept for disposal at the 
premises or at the designated place at the end of the sales. 
   
15. No cooking or making ﬁ  re or any other preparation of food shall be done by anyone at the premises.
   
16.       When selling cooked food at the  premises; 
 (1) Food shall not be sold in a place where there is a risk of  food contamination. 
 (2) Always the food items shall be sold from the sealed or air tight containers. 
 (3) Food items kept in any open space shall not be sold. 
 (4) Cooked food shall not be taken here and there around the p remises and sold. 
 (5) Everyone who sells food item shall use gloves and touch th e food only with the help of a 
handle to hold food. 
   
17.  No person shall drink alcohol or make arrangements to drin k alcohol or smoke in any way at the 
premises . 
   
18.  No person in the premises should utter ﬁ  lthy words or behave in an obscene manner.  
   
19.  Anyone who suﬀ  ers from any infectious disease, or who is suspected of having contracted  disease, 
or who has been infected with a wound, skin infection, ulcer, or diarrhea, or who has been cared for, 
should not trade on the premises.
20.  The loudspeakers shall not be used in the premises to advertise or present musical programs.  
   
21.  No person in the premises shall beg or hold performances.  
   
22.  Whatever the above provisions of this by-law contain, ther e are reasonable grounds to suspect that in 
any area or authority area in Sri Lanka, when there is a provision for the spread of an epidemic under 
the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases Ordinance and the reg ulations made under it, In such 
cases, it should be lawful for the Chairman to prescribe that all or some of the following procedures 
shall be followed by the users of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
General 
Conditions
 Maintaining the
 public market in
 an epidemic 
situation

<!-- page 308 -->

308A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 (1) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders  and consumers at various places 
in the premises.  
 (2) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders  and consumers at various places 
in the premises.  
 (3) That public latrines in the premises should be temporarily  closed. 
 (4) That there should be several entrances and exits to the pr emises. 
 (5) That the relevant minimum distance between traders and con sumers should be maintained 
and the minimum distance to be maintain between each other. 
 (6) That the premises should be well ventilated. 
 (7) That the number of people entered to the premises at a tim e by the entrances should be 
limited. 
 (8) That respiratory etiquette should be maintained on the pre mises and that anyone suspected 
of having a fever or respiratory illness or such condition should be prohibited from entering 
the premises.  
 (9) Traders and users of the premises are required to wear fac e masks and traders are required to 
wear face masks and gloves. 
 
 (10) That conduct and other necessary instruction should be di splayed at the premises and 
maintained on a regular basis. 
 
 (11) That when dealing with money in the premises, a speciﬁ  c person shall be deployed at each 
stall to perform that task and he or she shall regularly sterilize and clean their hands. 
 
 (12) That food should not be consumed by anyone in any way in the premises. 
 
 (13) That the premises should be divided into sections and ope rated for a limited trade.
 
 (14) That the premises were not maintained for commercial purp oses for a period of time. 
   
23.  All persons who use the premises shall act in accordance w ith the provisions made by the Chairman 
under the above clause. 
   
24.  Every public market owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha and priv ate market should have a boundary 
schedule to the land area.  
   
25.  When it is a public market belonging to the Pradeshiya Sab ha. 
 
 (1) The Chairman shall ensure that all steps taken to maintain  the provisions of this By-Laws are 
properly implemented.  
 (2) As per the decision of the Pradeshiya Sabha, the public ma rket of the Sabha can be entrusted 
to the second parties identiﬁ ed under the proper tender procedure. 
 (3) When the public market is maintained by the parties contra cted on behalf of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha, it shall be supervised by an oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to specify whether it 
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law. 
    
26. (1) When the public market is maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the fees to be charged for 
trade in the premises should be as determined by the Sabha.  
The terms must 
be complied
Determination of 
fees

<!-- page 309 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
309A
 (2) All matters related to the fees prescribed under sub-claus e (1) above and the reservation of 
space for public market vendors shall be decided by the Sabha taking into consideration the 
recommendations of a committee appointed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
27.  All private operating maintained within the authority area  shall not be maintained except under a 
license to be obtained from the Chairman. 
   
28.  All private markets operating within the authority shall n ot be issue a license unless they comply 
with the provisions of this By-Law.  
  
29.  All persons applying for a license under Article 26 shall apply to the Chairman in accordance with 
an application under the Schedule to this By-law.  
   
30.  The fees to be charged in respect of requests received fro m the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be legally 
determined by the sabha through a prior proposal.  
   
31.  If a license issued under section 26 is not previously rev oked in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until 31st December of the year in which the license issued.  
   
32. (1) (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under t his by-law shall be determined and 
declared by the Sabha, subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
 (2) It should be lawful for the Sabha to determine and charge an inspection fee for a site 
inspection in connection with the issuance of a license.  
   
33.  It shall be lawful for an oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the premises and obta in the 
necessary items to inspect the premises in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law. 
 
   
34. (1) In the event of a breach or contradiction of the provis ions of this by-law, the Chairman shall 
give notice to the licensee giving a speciﬁ ed period not exceeding thirty days for compliance 
with the By-law.  
   
 (2)  Upon submission of a notice under this section to the lic ensee, the Chairman may grant 
additional time upon request, on reasonable grounds, to grant further time to act in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The period so granted shall be subjected to a maximum 
period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
35.  The Chairman shall revoke the relevant license in the even t that the licensee fails to comply with the 
notice within the period of time or additional period granted under section 33 above.  
   
36.  It is an oﬀ ense to act in violation of any provision of this by-law or to operate a private market without 
obtaining a license under this by-law and after being convicted  by a magistrate court under sub-
section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 shall be subjected to a penalty. 
   
License for 
Private Market
Applying for
 License
License fee
 Authority
 for inspection 
Violation of the 
terms of the
 license
Penalty

<!-- page 310 -->

310A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
37.  Unless the context required an interpretation of the terms  of this By-law;
  "Sabha" means Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" refers to the person who holds the post of Chairma n of the Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha at present or the person who performs the function of that position.
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” Any oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha, 
  "Pollution" means food or food pollutants entry or occurrence .
  "Hygiene" refers to all the conditions and practices required  to ensure the safety and 
suitability of food at all stages of a food chain. 
    
38.  If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, Englis h and Tamil texts in this By-law, Sinhala 
text will prevail.  
        Application Number:
Fill up the “A” Section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Oﬃ  ce / Wethara 
Sub Oﬃ  ce of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head Oﬃ  ce / Wethara Sub Oﬃ  ce
Application for a Trade License for the year 20 ..........
 "A"
1. Name of trader: ......................................................................................................................
2. Name and address of the place of business: ............................................... ......................................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
3. Personal address of the trader: ...............................................................................................
4. National Identity Card Number of the trader: ........................................... .............................
5. Telephone Number: ................................................................................................ ..........................
6. Name and address of the owner of the building where the business is located : .............................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
7. Grama Niladhari Division Number and Name: ......................................... ........................................
8. Assessment Number and Street of the business place : ....................................................................
9. Commencement date of the Business : .............................................................................................
10. Nature of the business for which the license is applied for: ..........................................................
It is requested to grand the license to carry on the above said business for the year 20 ............ 
Date: .....................              ...............................
                                                                                                              Signature of the  applicant
Inconsistencies 
between texts

<!-- page 311 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
311A
For oﬃ  cial use
"B" Revenue Inspector Report
1.  Extent of the business premises: ...................................................................................................
2.  Number of employees in the place of business: ........................................... .....................................
3.  Annual value of the place of business: ........................................... ....................................................
4.  Nature of the building: ............................................. ..........................................................................
5.  Nature of the Business (As per Gazette): ......................... Permanent / Temporary ..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
    
Date: ...................                                                                ..................................... ..
                                                                                                                         Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health: - ................................................
I refer for your recommendations.
                                                                                                               ...................................... 
                  Chief Management Service Oﬃ   cer (Revenue)
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health: .............................................
I recommend / do not recommend granting license for this busine ss. Please inform the Chairman of 
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha to instruct the applicant to fulﬁ ll the following recommendations.
1. ..............................................................................................................................................................
2. ..............................................................................................................................................................
3. ..............................................................................................................................................................
4. ..............................................................................................................................................................
5. ..............................................................................................................................................................
6. ..............................................................................................................................................................
7. ..............................................................................................................................................................
8. ..............................................................................................................................................................
9. ..............................................................................................................................................................
10. ............................................................................................................................................................
Date :- .......................
                                                                                                               ............... ....................
                                                                                                            Public Health Insp ector

<!-- page 312 -->

312A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
Recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
As per the above said report of Public Health Inspector on the above industry / business, I recommend / do 
not recommend to issue the license for the year 20 ............
                                                                                                                         ..... .............................
                                                                                                                           Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
Secretary
I recommend / do not recommend the license. The following conditions must be fulﬁ lled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date : ..........................                        ...................................
                                                                                                         Chief Revenue Inspect or
Chairman
I recommend / I do not recommend issuing the above license and forward.
                                                                                                     
Date : ...............................                             ...........................
                                                                                                                          Secr etary
Instructions of the Chairman
On the recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, I approve / do not approve the issuance of the  
license for ................................................................................. being carried out at.....................................
............................................, for the year of 20……..
                                                                                                                     ......... ....................
 Date: ................                         Chairman
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Note of Management Service Oﬃ  cer
License Fee Rs.   :  .......................................... .
Receipt No. & Date :  ......................................... ..           ................................................
License No. & Date :  HO/PS/TL/......................... Manage ment Servicer Oﬃ  cer (Revenue)

<!-- page 313 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
313A
BY-LAW FOR SETTING STANDARDS TO BE FOLLOWED REGARDING SANITARY 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIV ATE MARKETS OR FAIRS
1.  This By-law is enacted to set standards to be followed rega rding the sanitary requirements for private 
markets or fairs within the authority area of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This By-law is cited as the by-law on the setting of sanita ry standards for fairs of the Homagama 
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se By- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-section 126(xii) of the said Act.
   
4.  The extent of the land (hereinafter referred to as the prem ises) on which each market, including a 
public market and a private market (hereinafter referred to as market), which is located within the 
jurisdiction of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the authority area) shall 
be speciﬁ ed, and it shall be a premises maintained and prepared under a  name board for the same 
purpose. 
   
5.  All markets located within the authority area shall be main tained in accordance with the following 
standards to maintain proper sanitary conditions.
    
 i. The premises shall be zoned mainly for the exchange of good s brought for sale in vehicles 
as meat and ﬁ sh, vegetables and fruits and other goods and for the washing of fruits and 
vegetables. 
   
 ii. Latrines in the premises shall be adequate for both men an d women outside the zones referred 
to in Sub-section (1) above and shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit by a speciﬁ c 
drain so that the water used therein shall not ﬂ ow into any zone of the premises. 
   
 iii. Zones within the premises shall be numbered and displayed  in a map at the entrance to the 
premises in order for the easy attention of the visitors to the premises. 
   
 iv. Permanent constructions within the premises shall be const ructions built in accordance with 
the provisions of the written law to that eﬀ ect. 
   
 v. Every construction on the premises shall be well constructe d and anything or any material 
used for that purpose shall not release anything which contaminates food. 
   
 vi. Necessary separations shall be made to prevent cross-conta mination in the premises. 
   
 vii. Arrangements shall be made to prevent the spread of anima ls such as dogs and cats in the 
premises, and all construction surfaces shall be prepared as inanimate surfaces. 
   
 viii. A parking zone shall be established to prevent contamina tion of things brought in, things 
kept in the premises for sale from any substance, liquid or gas  releases or leaks from any 
vehicle entering the premises. 
 ix. The people deployed to unload, move the goods or the peopl e work for such purposes shall 
be pre-identiﬁ ed for the purpose and the information for their identities sh all be maintained 
by the market keeper documenting and updating the information. 
Short title.
That a market 
shall comply 
with sanitary 
standards.

<!-- page 314 -->

314A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 x. The market keeper shall document the identities of those wh o come to the premises for trade 
and those who come for their support and maintain the information updated. 
   
 xi. The ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be prepared so that water does not s tagnate and the internal 
drains shall be arranged so that water can ﬂ ow easily. 
   
 xii. Septic tank or soakage pit shall be adequately constructe d in the premises to allow wastewater 
to ﬂ ow, and any soakage pit or soakage pit in the premises shall be located at a distance of at 
least 15.25 m, if there is a water source without an external opening. 
   
 xiii. All stands set up to keep goods for trade within the pre mises shall have a washable surface 
and each surface shall be disinfected and cleaned prior to use. 
   
 xiv. The interior layout of the premises shall be arranged wit h a reasonable distance to walk 
easily.  
   
 xv. Goods and materials sold on the premises shall be kept out  of direct contact with the ground 
and shall be placed on a stand or platform at a certain height above the ground. 
   
 xvi. Closed garbage bins shall be set up in each zone suﬃ   cient for the temporary disposal of 
waste collected in the premises, and the waste shall be dispose d only to the appropriate 
garbage bin where it should be disposed of according to its nature. 
   
 xvii. Traders engaged in trading in the premises or customers shall not spit on the 
premises. 
   
 xviii. No cooking or lighting shall be done on the premises an d if cooked food is taken out and 
sold, all such food shall be stored in airtight containers and all food shall be sold with gloves 
and kitchen tongs. 
   
 xix. When disposing the gloves, masks used on the premises; Sp eciﬁ c closed garbage bins 
shall be adequately maintained for their disposal; relevant dis posals shall be done 
accordingly. 
   
 xx. Within the area where the ﬁ  sh is sold on the premises;
  (A)  Stands for the sale of ﬁ  sh shall be made of permanent materials and shall be cleaned 
and used before use with soap or disinfectant.
  (B)  The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soa kage pit through properly  
constructed closed drains.
  (C)  If ﬁ  sh is stored, it should be refrigerated and stored at a temper ature of two degrees 
Celsius or less.
  (D)  Light bulbs and ﬁ  ttings hanging above the ﬁ sh for sale shall be secured and covered.
  (E)  No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above the place where the ﬁ sh is kept 
for sale and in contact with the ﬁ sh and no contamination of the ﬁ sh shall occur in any 
way.

<!-- page 315 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
315A
  (F)  Sewage collected during the sale of ﬁ  sh shall be temporarily collected in closed garbage 
bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises and disposed in accordance with 
a waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in accordance 
with the instructions of the Public Health Inspector. 
  (G)  Refrigerated ﬁ  sh kept for sale shall not be re-refrigerated under ambient temperature.
  (H)  What is used for packaging in the sale of ﬁ  sh shall not be a printed paper or a packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the ﬁ sh.
  (I)  All ﬁ  shmongers shall not be infected with any infectious disease or skin disease.
  (J)  All ﬁ  shmongers shall wear appropriate clean clothes while selling ﬁ sh.
  (K)  Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall  be disinfected and 
cleaned. 
   
 xxi. Within the area where the meat is sold on the premises;
  (A)  Stands for the sale of meat shall be made of permanent materials and shall be cleaned 
and used before use with soap or disinfectant.
  (B)  The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soa kage pit through properly 
prepared closed drains.
  (C)  If meat is stored, it should be refrigerated and meat sh ould be stored at a temperature 
of two degrees Celsius or less.
  (D)  Light bulbs and ﬁ  ttings hanging above the meat for sale shall be secured and covered.
  (E)  No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above the place where the meat is kept 
for sale and in contact with the meat and the contamination of the meat shall not occur 
in any way.
  (F)  Sewage collected during the sale of meat shall be tempor arily collected in closed 
garbage bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises  and disposed in 
accordance with the waste management program implemented by the  Pradeshiya 
Sabha or as per the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
  (G)  Refrigerated meat kept for sale shall not be re-refriger ated under ambient temperature.
  (H)  What is used for packaging in the sale of meat shall not  be printed paper or packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the meat.
  (I)  All meat sellers shall not be infected with any infectio us disease or skin disease.
  (J)  All engaged in the sale of meat shall wear appropriate c lean clothes while selling meat.
  (K)  Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall  be disinfected and 
cleaned. 

<!-- page 316 -->

316A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
 xxii. Within the area where vegetables and fruits are sold on the premises;
  (A)  Sales locations shall be well ventilated and well lighte d artiﬁ cially or naturally.
  (B)  No washing of fruits and vegetables shall be done on the  same place; vegetables and 
fruits washed and cleaned in a separate place on the premises for this purpose shall be 
kept for sale.
  (C)  No rotten vegetables or fruits shall be mixed with good quality vegetables and fruits.
  (D)  A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease, infected or a person suﬀ ering from a 
skin disease shall not engage in selling activities.
  (E)  Rotten fruits and vegetables shall be disposed only in s peciﬁ cally designated containers.
  
  (F)  No person engaged in sale shall eat food, smoke, spit, c hew betel and other items, 
cough, sneeze or touch the nose in such a manner as to contaminate vegetables or fruits 
and the hygiene of vegetables and fruits shall be maintained.
   (G)  The water used to prevent drying of vegetables and frui ts shall be drinking water and 
the use of any prohibited chemical substance in fruits and vege tables shall not be 
allowed. 
   
 xxiii. When the Chairman has made an order in this regard on t he instructions of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health that any epidemic situation has arisen in an au thority area or when any of 
the provisions applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or any 
of the regulations made therein shall come into force, the following actions shall be properly 
implemented;
  (A)  That facilities shall be provided for cleaning hands at speciﬁ c places in the premises 
and action will be taken accordingly.
  (B)  That the prevailing conditions and regulations regarding  the use of public toilets in the 
premises shall be properly implemented.
  (C)  That the disinfection process to be carried out in the p remises on the instructions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector shall be carried  out in 
accordance with the recommended schedule.
  (D) That all operations on the premises shall be carried out in accordance with the 
instructions given to the users of the premises to protect social distancing.
  (E)  That action will be taken accordingly when the entry of vehicles into the premises is 
restricted.
  (F)  That notices have been circulated in the premises regard ing the health practices to be 
followed from time to time and that action will be taken accordingly.
  (O)  That the masks and gloves used in the premises are dispo sed without mixing with 
other garbage. 

<!-- page 317 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
317A
6.  In order to maintain a market in accordance with the standa rds set forth in Section 5 of this By-law, 
all actions shall be taken by a keeper of the common market in the case of a common market and by 
the license holder in the case of a private market. 
   
7.  The Chairman or a Public Health Inspector or an authorized oﬃ  cer shall inspect whether the 
premises are maintained in accordance with the standards set forth in this by-law.   
 
8.  When any market is maintained in violation of or  not compl ies with the standards set out in Section 
5 above; a written notice issued by the Chairman may specify a time period to be compliance with 
the standards. 
   
9.  Failure to comply with a notice issued under Section 8 abov e shall be an oﬀ  ense and shall be 
punishable under Sub-Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Ac t' No. 15 of 1987, after being 
convicted by a Magistrate Court. 
   
10.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
  "Council" means Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" means to the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position.
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means any oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food or food chain; 
  "Hygiene" means all the conditions and practices required to ensure the safety and suitability of food 
at all stages of a food chain. 
   
11.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 
--------------------------------------------------------------
BY-LAW ON PRIV ATE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
1.  This By-law is enacted to regulate, supervise and inspect m atters relating to public health in places 
where private educational institutions are maintained within th e authority area of the Homagama 
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This By-law is cited as the By-Law on Private Educational I nstitutions of the Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
  
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-section 126(ix) of the said Act.
Inspecting power
Provide a speciﬁ c 
time period by 
a notice
Penalty
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency 
between texts
Short title

<!-- page 318 -->

318A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Homagama Pradeshiy a Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain any building as a private educational institution except under a license 
obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  It is lawful for the Council to decide and charge a ﬁ  xed inspection fee for site inspections to be 
carried out prior to the issuance of a license in relation to t he application made under this by-
law. 
   
8.  Anyone applying for a license under this by-law shall have fulﬁ lled the following conditions 
applicable to a private educational institution herein (hereinafter referred to as premises). 
  
   (1) All permanent constructions pertaining to the premises s hall be constructions in accordance 
with a plan approved under the Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or under 
the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance. 
   
   (2) All constructions on the premises shall be compliant wit h the objectives for an educational 
purpose. 
   
   (3) All relevant constructions shall be with a proper ﬁ  nishing and arranged in a manner that is 
more favorable and does not adversely aﬀ  ect the educational activities carried out on the 
premises. 
   
   (4) The internal structure of the premises, the layout shall  be arranged with adequate 
space. 
   
   (5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a wa y as to maintain proper cleanliness.
 
   (6) The premises shall be properly ventilated and lighted, o r artiﬁ cially fulﬁ lled with the 
necessary requirements. 
   
   (7) All outputs on the premises shall be permanently made. 
   
   (8) There shall be separate entrances and exits to the premi ses and there shall be emergency exits 
to exit the premises in case of an emergency. 
   
   (9) Lecture halls shall be set up in the premises with platforms and they shall be well ventilated 
or air conditioned. 
   
   (10) Each lecture hall shall have separate entrances and exits and shall include an additional exit 
door for emergency exits when the hall is for more than one hundred students. 
Applying for a
 License
Inspection fees
Conditions for a
 license

<!-- page 319 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
319A
   (11) Loudspeaker facilities shall be provided when there is a lecture hall for more than ﬁ  fty 
children. 
   
   (12) In the interior layout of a lecture hall, the seats sha ll be arranged so that they can be seated 
at a distance from each other and each seat shall have a table that is at least 0.75 m long and 
wide. 
  
   (13) If the tables and seats in a lecture hall are arranged in such a way that they can be seated 
together, the space shall be kept so that the dimensions and di stances mentioned in Section 
12 above can be maintained and when seating for a group, seats and tables shall be set up to 
accommodate no more than six students. 
   
   (14) Between seats and tables; There shall be enough space b etween each set of seat and table, 
and the  space provided shall be in such way that it is easy to  move. 
   
   (15) Seats and tables shall be ﬁ  rmly ﬁ xed to the ﬂ oor and all shall be well made and easy to 
use. 
   
   (16) The interior walls of the premises shall be arranged in  such a way that they do not retain 
organisms and every wall shall be properly ﬁ nished. 
   
   (17) The premises shall have a ﬁ  re protection program in place and a ﬁ re safety certiﬁ cate shall 
be obtained as applicable. 
   
   (18) All halls and other buildings constructed within the pr emises and section without constructions 
shall be free from unsafe barriers and shall be in a risk-free condition. 
   
   (19) Drains in the premises shall be constructed in such a w ay that it easily drained without 
retaining wastewater and shall be directed to a septic tank or a soakage pit or a central 
treatment unit. 
   
   (20) Septic tanks and soakage pits installed in the premises  shall be installed in accordance with 
the approved plan and if there is a water source, it shall be set at a distance of at least 15.25m 
away and it shall not be exposed to air. 
   (21) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the pr emises and all latrines;
    (A) Shall be provided separately for males and females.
    (B) Shall equipped with water storage facilities to maintai n an adequate supply of water on 
a regular basis.
    (C) Each latrine shall have a permanent well-ﬁ  xed stainless water basin with a good water 
supply for hand washing at a speciﬁ ed space allocated.
 
9. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this By-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
   (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions under 
Section 8 are complied with. 
Issuing a license

<!-- page 320 -->

320A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
    (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if t he conditions under Section 8 are 
not complied with. 
   
10.  The fees to be charged for a license issued under this By- law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.   
 
11.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31st of the year in which the license applies. 
   
12.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
   (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the  advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situatio n declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authorit y area or in any case where 
an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine a nd Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such 
terms. 
   
   (2) The premises shall be well ventilated; if not, all lectu re halls shall be air-conditioned and the 
relevant air conditioning machines shall be in good working condition in order to maintain a 
proper temperature. 
  
   (3) The sound emitted by the loudspeakers maintained in the lecture halls; shall be adequately 
controlled and maintained in accordance with the national environmental regulations. 
   
   (4) If someone with an infectious disease condition arrives,  there shall be a speciﬁ  c place on 
each premises to temporarily quarantine them.
 
   (5) Suﬃ   cient identity information including the name, addresses, and  telephone numbers of all 
those studying on the premises shall be maintained, and information about the daily visitors 
shall be maintained in an identiﬁ able manner. 
   
   (6) All latrines in the premises shall be regularly disinfec ted and maintained.
 
   (7) All drains in the premises shall be properly cleaned and  maintained on the ground surface 
preventing water and dust retention. 
   
   (8) If hand hygiene is required when entering the premises, water basins with adequate water 
supply shall be installed and cleaning agents and sanitizers shall be provided. 
   
   (9) Seats shall be arranged in such a way that the lecturer is easily visible to the students and the 
students are easily visible to the lecturer. 
   
   (10) A system shall be set up to record information about th ose who visit the premises on each 
day when the educational activities takes place, shall maintain a separate identity information 
regarding all those who work on the premises. 
Fees for a license
Validity period of 
a license
Information 
related to a license

<!-- page 321 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
321A
   (11) About employees working on the premises,
(A) If employed as a resident, there shall be adequate sanitary facilities and accommodation 
facilities.
(B) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided and maintaine d separately for males and 
females. 
  
   (12) First aid facilities shall be provided on the premises so that they can be used for emergencies; 
The staﬀ  shall be trained for that. 
   
   (13) Noise generated during lectures on the premises shall b e controlled in accordance with the 
regulations of the Central Environmental Authority. 
   
   (14) All electrical wiring connections in the premises shall  be properly maintained; A report from 
an electrical engineer or a qualiﬁ ed professional shall be obtained at least once in every two 
years. 
   
   (15) A person suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infected or such a vector 
or an infected person shall not be employed on the premises and  the license holder shall be 
satisﬁ ed that such person is not employed. 
   
   (16) Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed in s ealed garbage bins speciﬁ  cally 
maintained for that purpose; and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises; 
all of them shall only be disposed into foot-operated container s which shall be maintained 
on the premises for only that purpose. 
   
   (17) Sewage collected on the premises shall be disposed in a ccordance with a program 
implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or the Public Health Inspector.
 
   (18) It is lawful for the Chairman to carry out the followin g actions on the premises or any of 
them or any other regulations for the beneﬁ t of public health on the advice of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health when required to act in the event of an outbrea k of an epidemic under the 
Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or a regulation made under it or when 
there is an epidemic situation in the authority area or when th e Chairman has decided, on 
the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, that there are suﬃ  cient grounds to suspect the 
spread of an epidemic.
   (A)  That the work on the premises carried out under the lic ences shall be temporarily 
suspended for a period of time.
   (B)  That an emergency response plan shall be in place on th e premises.
   (C)  That mass gatherings within the premises shall be stopp ed.
   (D)  That the distribution of lecture leaﬂ  ets by hand shall be stopped.
   (E)  That a speciﬁ  ed distance shall be maintained within the premises.

<!-- page 322 -->

322A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
   (F)  That to make sure that the body temperature is below th e normal range, when entering 
the premises.
   (G)  That the air conditioner ﬁ  lters shall be cleaned once a week.
 
   (H)  That shall be entered to a statement of agreement with the Chairman related to the 
maintenance of the premises in accordance with the set of instructions.
   (I)  That food shall not be sold or distributed on the premi ses.
   (J)  That respiratory etiquettes shall be followed when coug hing and sneezing.
 
   (K)  That there shall be a speciﬁ  c place for food consumption and that food shall be 
consumed separately at that place.
   (L)  That health guidelines to be maintained on the premises  shall be exhibited in an easily 
identiﬁ able manner.
   (M)  That entry into the premises and exit from the premises  shall be done in groups.
 
   (N)  That those who work on the premises shall undergo regul ar medical check-ups as 
prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health at regular intervals. 
  
13. If the sale of processed food is carried out on the premise s, the premises shall be maintained in 
accordance with the relevant written laws and none of those sha ll be considered to have been 
suppressed subject to a license obtained under this by-law. 
   
14. Each premises shall display this by-law and the license obt ained thereon or a copy thereof. 
   
15. It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publi c Health Inspector or any other authorized 
oﬃ  cer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable time to inspect the 
premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions of this By-law. 
   
16.  (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this By-law violates the provisions of this 
by-law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a speciﬁ c time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
   (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the l icense holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period 
to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be 
subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the  period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst 
notice. 
   
17.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder fails to be comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 above. 
Power to enter 
a premises
Cancellation of 
the license
That the license
 shall be displayed.

<!-- page 323 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
323A
18.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being conv icted by a Magistrate Court for that 
oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 122(2) of  the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 
of 1987, Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, if the violation continues even after 
the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an 
additional penalty referred to in that sub-section for each day of such violation.  
 
19.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his By-law;
   “Council” means Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position, 
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. 
   
20.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this By-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
   
         Application Number:
Fill up the “A” section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Oﬃ  ce / Wethara 
Sub Oﬃ  ce of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head Oﬃ  ce / Wethara Sub Oﬃ  ce
Application for a Trade License for the year 20 ..........
 "A"
1. Name of trader: ......................................................................................................................
2. Name and address of the place of business: ............................................... ......................................
 .............................................................. ...........................................................................................…..
 .............................................................. ...........................................................................................…..
3. Personal address of the trader: ...............................................................................................
4. National Identity Card Number of the trader: ........................................... .............................
5. Telephone Number: ................................................................................................ ..........................
6. Name and address of the owner of the building where the business is located : .............................
 .............................................................. ...........................................................................................…..
7. Grama Niladhari Division Number and Name: ......................................... ........................................
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 324 -->

324A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.11.2022
8. Assessment Number and Street of the business place : ....................................................................
9. Commencement Date of the Business : .............................................................................................
10. Nature of the business for which the license is applied for: ..........................................................
It is requested to grand the license to carry on the said business for the year 20 ............
Date: .....................             ..............................
                                                                                                             Signature of the applicant
 For oﬃ  cial use
"B" Revenue Inspector Report
1.  Extent of the business premises: ...................................................................................................
2. Number of employees in the place of business: .............. ............................. .....................................
3.  Annual value of the place of business: ........................................... ....................................................
4.  Nature of the building: ............................................. ..........................................................................
5.  Nature of the Business (As per Gazette): ......................... Permanent / Temporary ..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned.
 .............................................................. ..............................................................................................
 .............................................................. ..............................................................................................
 .............................................................. ..............................................................................................
 .............................................................. ..............................................................................................
    
Date: ...................                                                                ..................................... ..
                                                                                                                         Revenue Inspector
Secretary
I recommend / do not recommend the license. The following conditions must be fulﬁ lled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date : ..........................        ...................................
                                                                                                                     Chief Rev enue Inspector
Chairman
I recommend / I do not recommend issuing the above license.
                                                                                                     
Date : ...............................                             ...........................
                                                                                                                           Sec retary

<!-- page 325 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  17.11.2022
325A
Order of the Chairman
I approve / do not approve the issuance of the license for .... ......................................................................
............................... being carried out at .......... ......................................................................., for the year 
of 20……..
                                                                                                                     ......... ....................
 Date: ................                         Chairman
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Note of Management Service Oﬃ  cer
License Fee Rs.   :  .......................................... .
Receipt No. & Date :  ......................................... ..            ................................................
License No. & Date :  HO/PS/TL/.........................   Mana gement Servicer Oﬃ  cer (Revenue)
-------------------------------------
    

<!-- page 326 -->

326A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
BY-LAW ON HAIR DRESSING CENTERS
1.	 It	is	hereby	informed	that	the	By-Laws	on	Hair	Dressing	Saloons	and	Barber	Shops,	which	is	specified	
in the Gazette	notification	No.	584	and	dated	10.11.1989	of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	
Lanka,	that	is	adopted	by	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,	same	is	published	in	Gazette	notification	No.	
520/7	and	dated	23.08.1988	same	was	proposed	by	the	Minister	in	charge	of	Local	Government	of	the	
Western	Province	under	section	2	of	the	Local	Government	Authorities	(Standard	By-Laws)	Act,	No.	
6	of	1952	which	should	be	read	with	Section	2	of	the	Provincial	Councils	(Consequential	Provisions)	
Act,	No.	12	of	1989,	will	be	repealed	after	31.12.2022	without	prejudice	the	actions	taken	so	far	under	
the	said	By-Laws	and	this	By-Law	will	be	enacted	to	regulate,	supervise	and	control	the	maintenance	
of	Hair	dressing	saloons	and	Barber	shops	within	the	jurisdiction	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha.	
 
2.	 This	By-law	 is	 cited	 as	 the	 By-law	 on	 Hairdressing	 Centers	 of	 the	 Homagama	 Pradeshiya	
Sabha. 
   
3.	 The	Pradeshiya	Sabha	is	vested	with	powers	to	formulate	these	By-Laws	by	virtue	of	Section	122	of	
Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.15	of	1987	read	with	the	Sub-Section	126(xxiii)	of	the	said	Act.
   
4.	 No	person	within	the	jurisdiction	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	
authority	area)	shall	maintain	a	hairdressing	center	or	barber	shop	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	a	premise)	
except	under	a	license	obtained	from	the	Chairman	under	this	By-law.	
   
5.	 All	persons	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-law	shall	apply	for	it	under	an	application	prepared	in	
accordance	with	the	schedule	under	this	By-Law.	
   
6.	 Submission	of	an	application	under	the	above	section	can	be	made	by	fulfilling	the	requirements	and	
submitting	an	application	to	the	Chairman	by	registered	post,	handing	over	in	hand	or	by	e-mail	to	the	
extent	permitted	by	the	Council.	
   
7.	 All	persons	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-law	shall	not	be	issued	a	license	by	the	Chairman	
unless	the	following	conditions	are	fulfilled.	
   
	 (1)	 Constructions	relevant	to	the	premises	shall	be	constructions	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	
the	Urban	Development	Authority	Act,	No.	41	of	1978	or	the	Housing	and	Urban	Development	
Ordinance. 
   
	 (2)	 The	premises	shall	be	maintained	under	its	own	business	name.	
   
	 (3)	 Proof	that	 the	 employees	 who	 work	 on	 the	 premises	 are	 skilled	 in	 hairdressing	 shall	 be	
submitted.	
   
	 (4)	 Constructions	on	the	premises	shall	be	well	constructed	of	permanent	construction	materials	and	
in good and health safety condition. 
   
	 (5)	 Space	set	apart	for	providing	services	for	each	customer	shall	be	minimum	of	2.25	square	meters	
and	there	shall	be	adequate	space	proportionate	to	the	number	of	customers	who	are	to	be	provided	
services	at	the	same	time.		
Short title.
Legal power.
Applying for 
a License.
Conditions	for	
a license.

<!-- page 327 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
327A
	 (6)	 For	any	customer	who	arrive	therein	in	anticipation	of	services;	shall	be	provided	with	adequate	
space	to	be	seated	conveniently	with	at	least	1.5	meters	distance	from	the	place	where	another	
customer	is	already	being	served.		
   
	 (7)	 All	walls	of	the	premises	shall	be	not	less	than	2.7	meters	high	and	shall	be	painted.	
   
	 (8)	 Each	part	of	the	premises	shall	be	finished	with	a	ceiling	or	concrete	slab	at	a	height	of	not	less	
than	2.7	meters	from	the	ground	level.	
   
	 (9)	 The	premises	shall	be	air-conditioned	or	have	windows	that	can	be	opened	sufficiently	to	allow	
air	to	flow	in	from	the	outside.	
   
	 (10)	Premises	shall	be	finished	to	receive	light	finely.		
   
	 (11)	Drinking	water	for	use	in	the	premises	shall	be	adequately	supplied	and	shall	equipped	with	water	
storage facilities. 
   
	 (12)	If	 required	clients	shall	be	provided	with	the	facilities	to	take	a	shower	after	setting	their	
hair. 
   
	 (13)	A	separate	part	of	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	for	washing	the	equipment	and	containers	
used	for	the	customers.	
   
	 (14)	There	shall	be	adequate	latrine	facilities	for	the	employees	and	customers	of	the	institution	and	it	
shall	be	well	constructed	and	hygienic.	
   
	 (15)	Specific	 equipment	shall	be	fixed	to	wash	hair	of	the	customers,	and	shall	be	maintained	by	
cleaning	and	disinfecting	after	use	by	one	person	before	use	by	another.	
   
	 (16)	Adequate	 measures	shall	be	taken	to	ensure	that	wastewater	discharged	from	the	premises	does	
not	flow	into	public	drains	or	open	spaces,	and	shall	be	properly	directed	to	a	septic	tank	or	
soakage pit. 
   
	 (17)	A	septic	tank	or	soakage	pit	relevant	to	the	premises	shall	not	be	open	to	the	outside	and	if	there	
is	a	water	source	it	shall	be	constructed	at	a	distance	of	at	least	15.25	meters	away.	
   
	 (18)	There	shall	be	a	separate	area	on	the	premises	with	adequate	facilities	for	the	customers	waiting	
for	services.	
   
	 (19)	The	 electrical	circuit	in	the	premises	shall	be	checked	by	a	professional	and	certified	to	be	safe	
from leakage. 
   
	 (20)	A	separate	place	shall	be	maintained	to	clean	the	equipment	and	containers	used	in	the	premises.
 
8.	 	Within	fourteen	 days	 of	 receipt	 of	 an	 application	 for	 a	 license	 made	 under	 this	 By-law,	the	
Chairman;	
   
Issuing	a	license

<!-- page 328 -->

328A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (1)	 Shall	issue	a	license	to	the	applicant	related	to	the	premises	if	it	is	in	accordance	with	the	conditions	
mentioned	in	Section	7.	
   
	 (2)	 Shall	reject	the	relevant	application	with	reasons	if	it	is	not	complied	with	the	conditions	mentioned	
in	Section	7.
    
9.	 (1)	 The	fees	to	be	charged	for	a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	shall	be	the	fees	to	be	decided	and	
declared	by	the	Council	subject	to	the	provisions	of	the	Basic	Law.
 
   
	 (2)	 It	shall	be	lawful	for	the	Council	to	decide	and	charge	an	inspection	fee	for	site	inspections	in	
connection	with	the	issuance	of	a	license.	
   
10.		 If	 a	 license	 issued	 under	 this	 By-Law	 is	 not	 previously	 cancelled	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	
provisions	of	this	By-Law,	it	shall	be	valid	until	December	31	of	the	year	in	which	the	license	is	
related. 
   
11.		 All	 persons	received	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	following	
conditions herein. 
   
	 (1)	 If	there	are	any	terms	prescribed	by	the	Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
time	to	time	in	order	to	control	an	epidemic	situation	declared	throughout	Sri	Lanka	or	in	any	part	
of	the	country	or	relevant	to	the	authority	area	or	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	has	been	declared	
applicable	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	or	regulations	made	under	
it,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	subject	to	all	such	terms.	
   
	 (2)	 All	persons	employed	on	the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	all	orders	issued	by	the	
Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	in	the	event	of	an	outbreak	of	an	
epidemic	being	declared	under	the	regulations	made	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	
Diseases Ordinance. 
   
	 (3)	 Whenever	there	is	a	suspicion	of	a	risk	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	service	facilities	
shall	not	be	provided	on	the	premises	unless	all	persons	seeking	services	come	to	the	premises	in	
accordance	with	the	relevant	health	guidelines	issued.	
   
	 (4)	 Health	safety	instructions	shall	be	implemented	properly	on	the	premises	as	directed	by	the	
Director	General	of	Health	Services	or	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	by	the	Chairman	on	their	
instructions,	in	case	of	any	outbreak	or	risk	of	any	epidemic	in	the	authority	area	to	protect	from	
it,	and	the	license	holder	shall	be	satisfied	that	it	is	being	so.
 
	 (5)	 Every	time	engages	in	haircuts,	hair	colorings,	beards	and	hair	removal	of	the	customers,	everyone	
who	engages	in	such	activities	shall	wear	face	masks	and	gloves	as	much	as	possible.	
   
	 (6)	 A	document	containing	information	relevant	to	each	customer	receiving	the	services	shall	be	
maintained. 
   
	 (7)	 Customers	shall	be	encouraged	to	bring	their	own	cloths	to	cover	the	upper	body	when	service	is	
given,	otherwise	the	used	cloths	shall	not	be	used	for	another	customer	until	it	has	been	washed,	
Fees	for	a	license
Validity period 
of a license

<!-- page 329 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
329A
dried	and	cleaned	after	used	for	one	customer.	
	 (8)	 As	recommended	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	Public	Health	Inspector	all	equipment,	
combs,	brushes,	etc.,	used	for	the	activities	including	haircuts	shall	not	be	used	for	another	
customer	unless	disinfected	after	used	for	one	customer.	
   
	 (9)	 The	windows	shall	be	kept	open	for	good	circulation	of	air	in	the	premises,	and	if	air	conditioned,	
all	air	conditioners	shall	be	kept	constant	at	the	prescribed	temperature.	
   
	 (10)	The	 filters	 of	 the	 air	 conditioners	 in	 the	 premises	 shall	 be	 regularly	 cleaned	 and	
maintained. 
   
	 (11)	The	 relevant	service	shall	be	provided	only	after	the	hands	have	been	cleaned	with	soap	or	
sanitizer	before	providing	the	service	to	the	customer.	
   
	 (12)	When	working	on	the	premises,	the	service	shall	not	be	provided	to	a	customer	without	adequate	
cleaning	prior	to	service	after	the	use	of	toilets	or	after	contact	with	any	contaminants.	
   
	 (13)	When	 serving	the	customers	on	the	premises,	every	service	provider	shall	wear	an	apron	and	it	
shall	be	of	very	clean	condition.
 
	 (14)	Dust	 and	hair	shall	be	swept	and	removed	after	each	service	on	the	premises,	and	all	shall	be	
temporarily disposed into a sealed garbage bin. 
   
	 (15)	Floor,	chairs,	and	tables	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	daily	with	disinfectant	before	starting	
work. 
   
	 (16)	No	person	shall	use	the	service	area	of	the	premises	for	eating	or	any	other	purpose.	
   
.	 (17)	Foot-operated	garbage	bins	with	lids	shall	be	kept	for	the	separate	collection	of	waste	collected	
in the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that.  
   
	 (18)	The	following	procedures	shall	be	followed	in	the	management	of	waste	that	collects	in	relation	
to the premises.
(A)		 Removed	hair	shall	be	collected	at	the	end	of	each	service	and	disposed	in	a	separate	
garbage bin. 
(B)		 Other	waste	generated	by	the	activities	in	the	premises	shall	be	collected	separately	without	
mixing	them	with	the	discharged	hair.	
(C)		 The	waste	 related	 to	 the	 premises	 shall	 be	 disposed	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 waste	
management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in accordance with the 
waste	disposal	strategy	implemented	by	the	license	holder	as	agreed	by	the	Public	Health	
Inspector.  
   
	 (19)	Latrines	in	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	and	disinfected	at	least	twice	a	day	and	shall	be	kept	free	

<!-- page 330 -->

330A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
from	odor,	and	in	the	event	of	an	outbreak	or	suspicion	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	the	
latrines	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	and	maintained	in	accordance	with	the	guidelines	given	
by	the	Chairman	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health.	
   
	 (20)	All	employees	work	on	the	premises	shall	have	a	proper	training	in	using	equipment,	and	shall	not	
use	any	chemical	for	dyeing	that	is	not	approved	by	the	health	authority.	
   
	 (21)	Any	 person	who	suffers	from	any	infection,	transmittable	or	skin	disease,	or	who	has	recently	
suffered	from	such	a	disease,	or	who	has	recently	nursing	a	person	who	has	recently	infected	from	
any	such	disease,	unless	the	period	of	infection	and	incubation	has	expired,	shall	not	be	employed	
or employed as an assistant at any licensed place.  
   
	 (22)	Any	 person	identified	as	suffering	from	any	infection,	transmittable	or	skin	disease	shall	not	
normally	be	entered	to	the	premises	for	service.	
   
	 (23)	When	 the	license	holder	decides	or	in	case	where	it	is	prescribed	by	the	Chairman	or	any	other	
competent	authority	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	the	body	temperature	of	all	
persons	visits	seeking	services	on	the	premises	shall	be	checked	and	entered	into	the	premises,	and	
required	thermometers	shall	be	maintained	to	check	the	body	temperature	without	contact.	
   
	 (24)	The	health	guidelines	to	be	followed	by	each	customer	on	the	premises	shall	be	displayed	on	the	
premises	and	the	license	holder	shall	ensure	that	all	activities	are	carried	out	in	accordance	with	
those	guidelines.	
   
	 (25)	First	aid	facilities	shall	be	maintained	on	the	premises	and	the	staff	employed	shall	be	trained	for	
that as well. 
   
	 (26)	Relevant	to	all	persons	who	serve	on	the	premises,	the	license	holder	shall	ensure,	
(A)		That	the	clothing	worn	at	work	is	clean	and	in	good	health	condition.	
(B)		That	the	jewellery	worn	and	their	nails	are	maintained	in	a	manner	that	does	not	harm	the	
customer.	
(C)		That	the	hands	are	sanitized	and	cleaned	prior	to	service.		
   
	 (27)	It	 is	the	responsibility	of	the	license	holder	to	subject	the	employees	work	on	the	premises	for	a	
medical	checkup	at	least	once	a	year.	
   
	 (28)	A	copy	of	this	By-Law	and	the	license	shall	be	displayed	in	all	premises.	
   
12.		 It	shall	be	lawful	for	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	any	other	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	to	
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect whether the premises is in accordance with the 
provisions	of	this	By-law.	
   
13.		 Taking	into	account	the	possible	causes	of	the	spread	of	an	epidemic	in	the	area,	when	the	Chairman	

<!-- page 331 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
331A
Definitions
has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the 
maintenance	of	the	premises	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	the	license	holder	shall	
enter	into	a	statement	of	agreement	with	the	Chairman,	and	the	Chairman	shall	send	a	copy	of	it	to	
the	Medical	Officer	of	Health.	
   
14.		 In	the	event	of	an	order	is	in	effect	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	
relating	to	any	epidemic	situation	pertaining	to	the	authority	area,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	
in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
15.		 It	is	lawful	for	the	Chairman	or	any	other	authorized	Public	Health	Inspector	or	any	other	authorized	
officer	to	enter	the	premises	and	obtain	the	required	samples	at	any	reasonable	time	to	inspect	the	
premises	whether	it	is	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law.	 	 	
 
16.	 (1)	In	the	event	that	a	premises	licensed	under	this	By-Law	violates	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	or	
acts	against	it,	the	Chairman	shall	submit	a	notice	to	the	license	holder	informing	a	specific	time	
period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-Law. 
   
	 (2)	After	 submission	of	a	notice	under	this	Section	to	the	license	holder,	the	Chairman	may	grant	
an	additional	period	of	time	upon	a	reasonable	request	to	further	extend	the	time	period	to	be	
in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	the	relevant	notice.	The	period	granted	so	shall	be	subject	to	a	
maximum	period	of	fourteen	days	in	addition	to	the	period	specified	in	the	first	notice.	
   
17.		 The	Chairman	shall	cancel	the	relevant	license	in	the	event	that	the	license	holder	fails	to	be	comply	
with	the	notice	within	the	period	of	time	or	additional	period	given	under	Section	16	above.	 	
  
18.		 It	is	an	offense	to	maintain	a	premises	without	a	license	to	be	obtained	under	this	By-Law	or	in	
violation	of	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	and	after	being	convicted	by	a	Magistrate	Court	for	that	
offense,	shall	be	subject	to	a	penalty	under	Subsection	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	
of	1987.	Further,	after	being	found	guilty	of	such	an	offense,	if	the	violation	continues	even	after	
the	notice	has	been	given	by	the	Chairman	or	an	officer	authorized	by	him,	he	shall	be	subject	to	an	
additional	penalty	referred	to	in	the	aforesaid	Subsection	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	
of	1987	for	each	day	of	such	violation.			
   
19.	 	Unless	other	meaning	is	required	with	regard	to	text,	in	this	By-Law
	 	“Council”	means	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 	“Chairman”	 means	the	person	who	hold	the	office	of	the	Chairman	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	
Sabha	at	that	time	or	an	officer	who	performs	the	duties	of	that	position,
	 “Medical	 Officer	of	Health”	means	the	person	who	holds	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
Division	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 	 “Public	Health	Inspector”	means	a	person	who	holds	the	office	of	Public	Health	Inspector	attached	to	
the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	
Power to enter 
the premises
Cancellation	of	
the license
Penalty

<!-- page 332 -->

332A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
	 "Disinfectants"	means	a	chemical	agent	that	physically	reduces	the	amount	of	microorganisms	in	the	
environment	to	a	level	that	does	not	reduce	their	safety	or	suitability,
	 "Reasonable	time"	means	the	time	engaged	in	a	licensed	activity	or	related	work.	 	 	
 
20.		 In	the	event	of	any	inconsistency	between	the	Sinhala,	English	and	Tamil	texts	of	this	By-Law	the	
Sinhala	text	shall	prevail.	
   
	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 Application	Number:
Fill up the “A” Section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Office / 
Wethara Sub Office of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head Office / Wethara Sub Office
Application for a Trade License for the Year 20 ..........
 "A"
1.		 Name	of	trader:	..................................................................................................................................
2.		 Name	and	address	of	the	place	of	business:	......................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
3.		 Personal	address	of	the	trader:	...........................................................................................................
4.		 National	Identity	Card	Number	of	the	trader:	....................................................................................
5.		 Telephone	Number:	............................................................................................................................
6.		 Name	and	address	of	the	owner	of	the	building	where	the	business	is	located	:	..............................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
7.		 Grama	Niladhari	Division	Number	and	Name:	.................................................................................
8.		 Assessment	Number	and	Street	of	the	business	place	:	.....................................................................
9.		 Commencement	Date	of	the	Business	:	.............................................................................................
10.		Nature	of	the	business	for	which	the	license	is	applied	for:	..............................................................
It	is	requested	to	grand	the	license	to	carry	on	the	said	business	for	the	year	20	............
Date:	.....................		 	 	 	 	 																														...............................
																																																																																																													 									Signature	of	the	applicant.
Inconsistency
between	texts

<!-- page 333 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
333A
  For official use
"B"	Revenue	Inspector	Report
1.		 Extent	of	the	business	premises:	.............................................................................................................
2.	 Number	of	employees	in	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	..........................................
3.		 Annual	value	of	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	........................................................
4.		 Nature	of	the	building:	.............................................	..............................................................................
5.		 Nature	of	the	Business	(As	per	Gazette):	.........................	Permanent	/	Temporary	...............................
 
Other information to be mentioned.
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
    
Date:	...................																																																															 	 									.......................................
																																																																																																																		 																Revenue	Inspector.
Secretary
I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	the	license.	The	following	conditions	must	be	fulfilled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date	:	..........................		 	 	 	 	 																												...................................
																																																																																																									 										Chief	Revenue	Inspector.
Chairman
I	recommend	/	I	do	not	recommend	issuing	the	above	license.
                                                                                                     
Date	:	...............................			 	 	 	 																																			...........................
                                                                                                                            Secretary.
Order of the Chairman
	 	 I	 approve	/	do	not	approve	the	issuance	of	the	license	for	...............................................................
......................................................	being	carried	out	at	...................................................................
..............,	for	the	year	of	20……..
                                                                                                                     .............................
	Date:	................			 	 	 	 	 	 																							Chairman
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 334 -->

334A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
Note of Management Service Officer
License	Fee	Rs.	 	 :	....................................
Receipt	No.	&	Date	 :	....................................
License	No.	&	Date	 :	HO/PS/TL/	.................
BY-LAW REGARDING RECEPTION HALLS         
1.	 	This	By-law	is	enacted	to	protect	the	public	health	under	the	activities	of	the	reception	halls	maintained	
in	the	authority	area	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	and	regulate,	supervise	and	control	such	
places.  
   
2.	 	This	By-law	 is	 cited	 as	 the	 By-Law	 Regarding	 Reception	 Halls	 in	 the	 Homagama	 Pradeshiya	
Sabha. 
   
3.	 	The	Pradeshiya	Sabha	is	vested	with	powers	to	formulate	these	By-Laws	by	virtue	of	Section	122	of	
Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.15	of	1987	read	with	the	Sub-Section	126(ix)	of	the	said	Act.	 	
  
4.	 	No	person	within	the	jurisdiction	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	
authority	area)	shall	maintain	a	reception	hall	except	under	a	license	obtained	from	the	Chairman	
under	this	By-Law.	
   
5.	 	All	persons	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	apply	for	it	under	an	application	prepared	
in	accordance	with	the	schedule	under	this	By-Law.	
   
6.	 	Submission	of	an	application	under	the	above	section	can	be	made	by	fulfilling	the	requirements	and	
submitting	an	application	to	the	Chairman	by	registered	post,	handing	over	in	hand	or	by	e-mail	to	the	
extent	permitted	by	the	Council.	
   
7.	 	Any	person	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	not	be	issued	a	license	by	the	Chairman	
unless	the	following	conditions	are	met	herein.	
   
	 (1)	 All	constructions	relating	to	the	premises	shall	be	constructions	duly	made	in	accordance	with	the	
provisions	of	the	Urban	Development	Authority	Act	No.	41	of	1978	or	the	Housing	and	Urban	
Development	Ordinance	and;
 
	 	 (A)	 If	the	authority	area	is	subject	to	zoning,	the	relevant	constructions	shall	be	located	accordingly.
  
	 	 (B)	 The	Certificate	of	Conformity	shall	be	obtained	prior	to	construction	use.		
  
	 (2)	 All	constructions	shall	be	well	made	of	permanent	construction	materials.	
   
	 (3)	 The	reception	halls	shall	have	the	necessary	reservations,	divisions	and	placements	to	prevent	
cross-contamination,	and	the	interior	shall	be	designed	to	maintain	adequate	distance.	
   
Short title.
Legal Power.
Applying for 
a License.
             .....................................
Management	Services	Officer	(Revenue).
Conditions	for	
a license.

<!-- page 335 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
335A
	 (4)	 Adequate	space	shall	be	maintained	inside	the	halls	so	that	operations	can	be	carried	out	without	
interruption.	
   
	 (5)	 Premises	including	buildings	shall	be	designed	to	prevent	the	entry	and	retention	of	pests	and	
contamination	substances.	
   
	 (6)	 The	premises	shall	be	designed	to	facilitate	easy	and	proper	cleaning	and	to	facilitate	proper	
supervision	of	food	hygiene.	
   
	 (7)	 The	stages	in	the	premises	shall	be	of	proper	standard	and	the	halls	shall	be	designed	to	absorb	
internal	sound.	
   
	 (8)	 The	interior	of	the	hall	shall	be	air-conditioned	or	have	windows	that	can	be	opened	to	not	less	
than	one-fifteenth	of	the	area	of	the	hall	leaving	space	for	adequate	ventilation.	
   
	 (9)	 Adequate	lighting	in	halls	shall	be	arranged	in	a	natural	or	artificial	way.	
   
	 (10)	Doors	 shall	have	a	smooth	and	non-absorbent	surface	and	shall	be	fixed	in	such	a	way	that	
automatically	closed	when	appropriate.	
   
	 (11)	Fire	protection	equipment	shall	be	fixed	in	all	halls	in	the	premises.	
   
	 (12)	There	shall	be	no	fungus	growth	or	leakage	from	any	of	the	fixtures	or	structures	installed	in	the	
premises. 
   
	 (13)	Window	openings	in	the	premises	shall	be	easy	to	clean	and	shall	be	fitted	with	nets	to	prevent	
insects from entering. 
   
	 (14)		There	shall	be	separate	latrine	facilities	for	customers	and	employees,	which	shall	be	maintained	
separately for both males and females.
 
	 (15)	Buildings	on	the	premises	shall	be	made	with	access	facilities	for	the	disabled.	
   
	 (16)	Closed	drains	with	slopes	preventing	sedimentation	shall	be	installed	as	not	to	retain	wastewater	
and	sewage,	and	all	drains	shall	be	directed	to	a	septic	tank,	soakage	pit	or	central	treatment	unit	
constructed	in	accordance	with	an	approved	plan,	and	an	approved	method	shall	be	followed	
through	a	water	trap	or	plan	to	prevent	contamination	between	the	premises	and	the	final	
disposal. 
   
	 (17)	The	waste	collected	in	the	premises	shall	be	handed	over	in	accordance	with	a	waste	management	
program	implemented	by	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	a	specific	arrangement	shall	be	made	for	the	
disposal	of	waste	in	accordance	with	a	procedure	prescribed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	
Public	Health	Inspector.	
   
	 (18)	Drinking	 water	shall	be	adequately	supplied	for	the	use	in	the	premises	and	shall	be	stored	in	
containers	under	specified	standards.	

<!-- page 336 -->

336A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (19)	Facilities	 made	with	stainless	steel	or	other	suitable	material	for	hand	washing	shall	be	supplied	
on the premises.  
   
	 (20)	In	the	cooking	and	processing	area	on	the	premises,	
	 	 (A)	Floor	and	walls	shall	be	made	of	washable	and	non-slip	and	non-absorbent	materials.
	 	 (B)	 All	surfaces	shall	be	inactive	for	easily	cleaned	detergents	and	disinfectants.
	 	 (C)	 The	ceiling	shall	be	constructed	to	minimize	condensation	and	to	prevent	fungus	formation	
and cracking.
	 	 (D)	 If	there	are	any	windows	and	other	openings,	they	shall	be	shielded	with	covers	prevent	
entering insects.
	 	 (E)	 Absorbent	fans	shall	be	installed	to	allow	easy	flow	of	air	from	outside	and	to	flow	exhaust	air	
out.	
   
	 (21)	In	relation	to	the	place	where	food	is	served	to	the	customers	on	the	premises;
	 	 (A)	 The	space	for	serving	food	shall	be	prepared	with	more	space	so	that	food	can	be	obtained	
with	adequate	distance.	
	 	 (B)	 When	food	is	consumed	in	an	open	space,	it	shall	be	designed	to	get	well	ventilated	and	
prevent	birds	and	other	animals	from	entering.	
   
	 (22)	Adequate	parking	lots	shall	be	provided	for	visitors	to	the	premises.	
   
	 (23)	For	the	employees	on	the	premises,	
   
	 	 (A)	 If	resided,	there	shall	be	room	facilities	with	adequate	sanitary	facilities	for	the	accommodation,	
and it shall be in a place separate from the food processing and storage area. 
	 	 (B)	 Rooms	shall	be	arranged	so	that	at	least	four	square	meters	of	space	is	available	for	each	
employee to sleep. 
	 	 (C)	 Adequate	latrine	and	bathroom	facilities	shall	be	provided.		
   
	 (24)	The	 premises	shall	be	equipped	with	automatic	generators	of	sufficient	capacity	to	be	utilized	in	
case	of	emergency	power	failure.	
   
8.	 	 Within	fourteen	days	of	receipt	of	the	application	for	a	license	to	be	issued	under	this	By-Law,	the	
Chairman;	
   
	 (1)	 Shall	issue	a	license	pertaining	to	the	premises	to	the	applicant	when	the	conditions	under	Section	
7	are	complied	with.	
Issuing	a	license

<!-- page 337 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
337A
	 (2)	 Shall	reject	the	relevant	application	with	reasons	if	the	conditions	under	Section	7	are	not	complied	
with. 
   
9.	 (1)	 The	fees	to	be	charged	for	a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	shall	be	the	fees	to	be	decided	and	
declared	by	the	Council	subject	to	the	provisions	of	the	Basic	Law.	
   
	 (2)	 It	shall	be	lawful	for	the	Council	to	decide	and	charge	an	inspection	fee	for	site	inspections	related	
to	the	issuance	of	a	license.		
 
10.		 If	 a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	is	not	previously	cancelled	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-law,	it	shall	be	valid	until	December	31	of	the	year	in	which	the	license	applies.		
  
11.		 All	 persons	receives	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	following	
conditions herein. 
   
	 (1)	 If	there	are	any	terms	prescribed	by	the	Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
time	to	time	in	order	to	control	an	epidemic	situation	declared	throughout	Sri	Lanka	or	in	any	part	
of	the	country	or	relevant	to	the	authority	area	or	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	has	been	declared	
applicable	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	or	regulations	made	under	
it,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	subject	to	all	such	terms.	
   
	 (2)	 All	persons	employed	on	the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	all	guidelines	made	by	
the	Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	in	any	case	where	a	disease	is	
declared	applicable	under	the	orders	made	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Disease	
Ordinance. 
   
	 (3)	 Whenever	there	is	a	suspicion	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	relating	to	all	persons	who	
come	to	the	premises	expecting	services,	services	shall	not	be	provided	unless	they	visit	the	
premises	in	accordance	with	the	relevant	health	guidelines	issued.	
   
	 (4)	 When	there	is	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area	or	risk	of	an	epidemic,	the	health	safety	instructions	
prescribed	by	the	Director	General	of	Health	Services	or	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	the	
Chairman	as	per	their	instructions	shall	be	properly	implemented	in	the	premises	in	order	to	
protect	from	it	and	the	license	holder	shall	be	satisfied	that	it	is	being	so.	
   
	 (5)	 All	drains	in	the	premises	shall	be	easily	drained	and	the	effluent	and	sewage	shall	be	directed	to	
the	septic	tank,	soakage	pit	or	to	the	central	treatment	unit	according	to	the	approved	procedures	
and	the	necessary	action	shall	be	taken	to	prevent	contamination.	
 
	 (6)	 All	latrines	and	hand	washing	places	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	frequently	with	disinfectant	
and	appropriate	method	shall	be	maintained	to	ensure	that	all	of	them	are	being	so.	
   
	 (7)	 The	interior	floor	of	the	premises	shall	be	arranged	in	such	a	way	that	it	does	not	slip	easily,	and	if	
it	is	somewhat	easier	to	do	so	during	the	cleaning	process	boards	mentioning	on	that	regard	shall	
be	placed	in	such	a	place	visible	to	the	customers.	
   
Fees	for	a	license
Inspection fees
Validity period
Conditions	
applicable to 
a license

<!-- page 338 -->

338A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (8)	 Drains	in	the	premises	shall	be	made	as	not	to	retain	water	and	shall	be	cleaned	with	disinfectants	
twice daily. 
   
	 (9)	 No	drain	or	sewage	pipe	in	the	premises	shall	be	directed	in	any	way	to	a	public	drain	of	the	road	
or	outside	area.	
   
	 (10)	The	premises	shall	be	maintained	in	such	a	way	that	there	is	no	external	odor	due	to	the	discharge	
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
	 (11)	Adequate	 facilities	shall	be	in	place	to	regulate	the	temperature	required	for	cooking	and	
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
	 (12)	All	equipment	and	utensils	used	for	food	preparation	shall	be	maintained	in	accordance	with	the	
following	requirements.	
   
	 	 (A)		 All	equipment	and	utensils	used	in	food	preparation	shall	be	made	of	a	non-absorbent	
material	that	does	not	emit	any	toxins,	tastes	or	odors	and	shall	be	made	of	stainless	material.
	 	 (B)	 All	equipment	and	utensils	shall	be	of	such	a	nature	as	to	be	easily	cleaned.
	 	 (C)	 Containers	used	for	waste	disposal	shall	be	made	of	metal	or	non-leaking	materials	and	shall	
have	lids.
	 	 (D)	 All	equipment	and	utensil	maintained	shall	be	of	a	suitable	condition	to	be	used.	
   
	 (13)	Containers	used	for	serving	food	shall	be	such	that	they	can	be	served	in	a	way	that	does	not	harm	
the taste of the food. 
  
	 (14)	Premises	 shall	have	separate	refrigeration	facilities	to	store	things	used	for	cooking	food	and	
cooked food or similar. 
   
	 (15)	Fruits	 and	 vegetables	 used	 in	 food	 preparation	 shall	 be	 thoroughly	 washed,	 cleaned	 and	
used.	
   
	 (16)	Water	 used	 in	 the	 premises	 shall	 be	 kept	 in	 non-hazardous	 containers	 free	 from	
contamination. 
   
	 (17)	The	ice	used	in	the	premises	shall	be	made	from	drinking	water.	
   
	 (18)	Water	pipes	in	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	so	that	they	can	be	distinguished	from	any	other	
pipeline. 
   
	 (19)	A	specific	internal	arrangement	shall	be	in	place	to	ensure	that	every	food	item	cooked	on	the	
premises	is	delivered	to	customers	without	hazard,	and	that	specifically	assigned	persons	shall	be	
employed	to	regulate	it.	
   

<!-- page 339 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
339A
	 (20)	Meat	and	fish	brought	in	for	food	shall	be	stored	in	a	separate	refrigerator	on	the	premises	and	shall	
always	be	kept	at	a	temperature	of	two	degrees	Celsius	until	used	without	contamination.	
   
	 (21)	All	persons	involved	in	serving,	handling	or	assembling	food	on	the	premises;
	 	 (A)	Shall	not	touch	or	contact	food	with	their	open	hands	or	fingers.	
	 	 (B)	Utensils	and	gloves	used	for	handling	food	shall	be	a	favorable		use	for	food.	
	 	 (C)	 A	clean	towel	shall	be	used	to	wipe	hands.
	 	 (D)	 The	bottom	of	a	used	plate,	cup	or	other	container	shall	always	be	kept	out	of	contact	with	
any food. 
	 	 (E)	 All	utensils	used	for	food	serving	shall	be	kept	clean	and	in	separate	containers.
	 	 (F)	 Employees	shall	work	to	handle,	assemble	and	serve	food	in	such	a	way	that	their	activity,	
usage	does	not	cause	food	contamination	or	microbial	proliferation	in	any	way.	
   
	 (22)	When	 the	Chairman	has	declared	a	disease	condition	applicable	under	the	Quarantine	and	
Prevention	of	Disease	Ordinance	in	the	authority	area	or	under	the	orders	made	under	it	or	has	
declared	that	there	is	a	risk	of	any	epidemic	disease	in	the	authority	area	as	per	the	instructions	of	
the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	all	persons	involved	in	preparing,	handling,	serving,	or	assembling	
food	on	the	premises	shall	maintain	the	premises	in	accordance	with	the	directives	made	by	the	
Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	by	the	Chairman	as	per	their	instructions	
in	addition	to	any	other	provisions	of	this	By-Law.		
   
	 (23)	Tables	 for	serving	and	consuming	food	on	the	premises	shall	be	in	very	clean	condition	and	
disinfected	after	each	serve	and	consumption	and	the	towels	used	for	cleaning	shall	be	of	clean	
condition. 
   
	 (24)	Surfaces	 that	are	touched	by	the	customers	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	frequently	with	
disinfectants. 
   
	 (25)	Adequate	 facilities	for	hand	washing	and	hand	drying	with	disinfectant	shall	be	provided	in	the	
processing	area	of	the	premises	and	in	the	food	consumption	areas	of	the	premises	and	adequate	
lighting shall be maintained in the premises. 
   
	 (26)	Prior	 to	disposal	of	waste	collected	in	the	premises,	they	shall	be	maintained	in	such	a	way	that	
they	do	not	affect	the	things	used	on	the	premises	in	any	way	and	does	not	cause	contamination	
of food. 
   
	 (27)	Pets	such	as	dogs	and	cats	shall	not	be	kept	on	the	premises	in	any	way.	
   
	 (28)	Employees	 working	on	the	premises	shall	have	undergone	a	training	in	food	hygiene	and	shall	
be	subjected	to	medical	checkups	within	a	period	prescribed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	to	

<!-- page 340 -->

340A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
check	that	they	are	in	proper	health	condition.	Relevant	records	shall	also	be	maintained	so	that	
they	can	be	inspected	at	any	time	within	the	premises.	Also	the	health	check-ups	on	them	shall	be	
both clinical and epidemiological. 
   
	 (29)	A	health	monitoring	system	shall	be	set	up	for	the	employees	working	on	the	premises	and	a	
process	shall	be	put	in	place	to	get	the	health	advice	they	need.	
   
	 (30)	The	waste	generated	on	the	premises	shall	be	disposed	in	accordance	with	the	waste	management	
program	implemented	by	the	Council	and	in	accordance	with	the	written	rules	applicable	to	
it. 
   
	 (31)	If	 the	waste	generated	on	the	premises	is	managed	by	the	license	holder	himself,	the	Public	
Health	Inspector	in	charge	of	the	relevant	area	shall	be	informed	and	shall	act	in	accordance	with	
the	instructions	given	by	him.	
   
	 (32)	Adequate	first	aid	facilities	shall	be	provided	on	the	premises.	
   
	 (33)	When	 instructions	have	been	given	to	use	gloves	or	masks	in	the	community	in	the	event	of	an	
epidemic,	if	any	person	entering	the	premises	disposes	the	mask	or	gloves	they	are	wearing	on	the	
premises,	the	disposable	mask	or	gloves	shall	be	disposed	to	closed	containers	that	are	kept	on	the	
premises	specifically	for	that	purpose,	and	such	waste	shall	be	disposed	in	accordance	with	the	
waste	management	program	and	instructions	implemented	by	the	Council	without	mixing	with	
other wastes. 
   
	 (34)	Every	 person	 who	 handle	 food	 on	 the	 premises	 shall	 maintain	 maximum	 hygiene	 during	
handling	of	food	and	shall	always	wear	hats,	gloves,	masks,	shoes	and	appropriate	hygienic	
clothing. 
   
	 (35)	A	person	suffering	from	any	infectious	disease	or	suspected	to	be	infected	with	such	a	disease	or	a	
vector	of	such	a	disease	or	a	person	infected	with	wounds,	skin	infections	or	any	other	infectious	
disease shall not be employed on the premises.  
   
	 (36)	Every	person	involved	in	handling	of	food	on	the	premises	where	the	reception	halls	are	located	
shall	not	engage	in	activities	such	as	smoking,	spitting,	coughing,	sneezing,	or	touching	the	nose,	
which	can	cause	food	contamination.	
   
	 (37)	If	 there	are	enough	facts	to	think	that	any	person	is	suffering	from	an	infectious	disease	or	an	
epidemic	he	shall	not	be	entered	to	the	festive	occasions	on	the	premises.	
 
	 (38)	In	 the	event	of	any	person	visits	the	premises	for	consumption	of	food	or	employee	serving	on	
the	premises	of	a	reception	hall	contracted	an	infectious,	transmittable	or	skin	disease,	the	license	
holder	shall	notify	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	and	upon	such	notification,	all	persons	on	the	
premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	quarantine	instructions	given	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	
Health	or	a	Public	Health	Inspector	authorized	by	him.	
   
	 (39)	When	the	premises	where	the	reception	halls	are	located	are	subjected	to	the	quarantine	process,	

<!-- page 341 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
341A
Cancellation	of
the license.
Penalty.
Power to enter 
the premises.
the	premises	shall	not	be	used	for	any	festive	occasions	until	a	certificate	has	been	issued	by	the	
Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	the	Public	Health	Inspector	stating	that	the	quarantine	period	is	over	
and	the	premises	have	been	completely	disinfected.	
   
	 (40)	Health	care	measures	that	are	implemented	on	the	premises	shall	be	prominently	displayed	on	the	
premises	in	such	a	way	that	everyone	who	handles	and	consumes	food	in	the	reception	halls	can	
learn	about	the	relevant	instructions	and	shall	acted	according	to	them.	
   
	 (41)	The	 license	holder	shall	have	provided	all	information	regarding	the	employees	working	on	the	
premises	to	the	Chairman.	
   
12.	Taking	into	account	the	possible	causes	of	the	spread	of	an	epidemic	in	the	area,	when	the	Chairman	has	
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of	the	premises	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	the	license	holder	shall	enter	into	a	
statement	of	agreement	with	the	Chairman,	and	the	Chairman	shall	send	a	copy	of	it	to	the	Medical	
Officer	of	Health.	
   
13.	In	the	event	of	an	order	is	in	effect	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	
relating	to	any	epidemic	situation	pertaining	to	the	authority	area,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	in	
accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
14.	It	is	lawful	for	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	any	other	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	to	enter	the	
premises	at	any	reasonable	time	to	inspect	the	premises	whether	it	is	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-law	and	obtain	the	required	samples.
 
15.	(1)	 In	the	event	that	a	premises	licensed	under	this	By-Law	violates	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	or	
acts	against	it,	the	Chairman	shall	submit	a	notice	to	the	license	holder	informing	a	specific	time	
period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law. 
   
	 (2)	 After	submission	of	a	notice	under	this	Section	to	the	license	holder,	the	Chairman	may	grant	
an	additional	period	of	time	upon	a	reasonable	request	to	further	extend	the	time	period	to	be	
in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	the	relevant	notice.	The	period	granted	so	shall	be	subject	to	a	
maximum	period	of	fourteen	days	in	addition	to	the	period	specified	in	the	first	notice.	
   
16.		The	Chairman	shall	cancel	the	relevant	license	in	the	event	that	the	license	holder	neglect	being	
complied	with	the	notice	within	the	period	of	time	or	additional	period	given	under	Section	15	
above.	
   
17.		It	is	an	offense	to	maintain	a	premises	without	a	license	to	be	obtained	under	this	By-Law	or	in	
violation	of	the	provisions	of	this	By-law	and	after	being	convicted	by	a	Magistrate	Court	for	that	
offense,	shall	be	subject	to	a	penalty	under	Sub	section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	
of	1987.	Further,	after	being	found	guilty	of	such	an	offense,	if	the	violation	continues	even	after	
the	notice	has	been	given	by	the	Chairman	or	an	officer	authorized	by	him,	he	shall	be	subject	to	an	
additional	penalty	referred	to	in	the	aforesaid	Sub	section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	
of	1987	for	each	day	of	such	violation.	 	 	 	

<!-- page 342 -->

342A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
18.		 Unless	other	meaning	is	required	with	regard	to	text,	in	this	By-Law;
		 	 “Council”	means	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 	 “Chairman”	means	the	person	who	hold	the	office	of	the	Chairman	of	the	Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha	at	that	time	or	the	person	who	performs	the	duties	of	that	position,
	 	 “Medical	Officer	of	Health”	means	the	person	who	holds	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
Division	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha
	 	 “Public	Health	Inspector”	means	a	person	who	holds	the	office	of	Public	Health	Inspector	attached	
to	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	relevant	to	the	authority	area	
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
									“License	holder”	means	an	institution,	person	or	an	individual	who	has	obtained	a	license	under	this	
By-law,
											“Authorized	Officer”	means	the	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	at	that	
time,
										"Contamination"	means	the	entry	or	occurrence	of	contamination	substance	in	a	food,	
	 	 "Disinfectants"	means	reducing	the	amount	of	microorganisms	in	the	environment	by	chemicals	or	
physical	means	to	a	state	that	do	not	reduce	the	safety	or	suitability	of	the	food,
	 "Food	hygiene"	means	all	the	conditions,	steps	and	practices	to	ensure	the	safety	and	suitability	of	food	
at all stages in the food chain,
	 "Hazards"	means	a	biological,	chemical,	or	condition	that	is	likely	to	cause	adverse	health	effects,
	 "Food	safety"	means	the	responsibility	not	cause	any	harm	to	the	customer	during	preparing,	processing,	
selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
	 "Reasonable	time"	means	any	time	engaged	in	a	licensed	activity	or	related	work,
		 "Basic	Law"	means	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	of	1987.	
   
19.		 In	the	event	of	any	inconsistency	between	the	Sinhala,	English	and	Tamil	texts	of	this	By-Law	the	
Sinhala	text	shall	prevail.	
Definitions.
Inconsistency
between	texts.

<!-- page 343 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
343A
	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 Application	Number:
Fill up the “A” Section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Office / 
Wethara Sub Office of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head	Office	/	Wethara	Sub	Office
Application	for	a	Trade	License	for	the	year	20	..........
 "A"
1.	Name	of	trader:	......................................................................................................................
2.	Name	and	address	of	the	place	of	business:	...............................................	......................................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
3.	Personal	address	of	the	trader:	...............................................................................................
4.	National	Identity	Card	Number	of	the	trader:	...........................................	.............................
5.	Telephone	Number:	................................................................................................	..........................
6.	Name	and	address	of	the	owner	of	the	building	where	the	business	is	located	:	.............................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
7.	Grama	Niladhari	Division	Number	and	Name:	.........................................	........................................
8.	Assessment	Number	and	Street	of	the	business	place	:	....................................................................
9.	Commencement	date	of	the	Business	:	.............................................................................................
10.	Nature	of	the	business	for	which	the	license	is	applied	for:	..........................................................
It	is	requested	to	grand	the	license	to	carry	on	the	above	said	business	for	the	year	20	............	
Date:	.....................		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	...............................
																																																																																																													 									Signature	of	the	applicant.
For official use
"B"	Revenue	Inspector	Report
1.		Extent	of	the	business	premises:	...................................................................................................
2.	 Number	of	employees	in	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	.....................................
3.		Annual	value	of	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	....................................................
4.		Nature	of	the	building:	.............................................	..........................................................................
5.		Nature	of	the	Business	(As	per	Gazette):	.........................	Permanent	/	Temporary	..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
    
Date:	...................																																																															 	 										.......................................
																																																																																																																																				Revenue	Inspector.

<!-- page 344 -->

344A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
Medical Officer of Health: - ................................................
I	refer	for	your	recommendations.
                                                                                                               ...................................... 
																																																																																														Chief	Management	Service	Officer	(Revenue).
Medical Officer of Health: .............................................
I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	granting	license	for	this	business.	Please	inform	the	Chairman	of	
Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	to	instruct	the	applicant	to	fulfill	the	following	recommendations.
1. ..............................................................................................................................................................
2. ..............................................................................................................................................................
3. ..............................................................................................................................................................
4.	..............................................................................................................................................................
5.	..............................................................................................................................................................
6. ..............................................................................................................................................................
7.	..............................................................................................................................................................
8.	..............................................................................................................................................................
9.	..............................................................................................................................................................
10.	............................................................................................................................................................
Date	:-	.......................
                                                                                                               ...................................
																																																																																																									 	 	Public	Health	Inspector.
Recommendation of the Medical Officer of Health
As	per	the	above	said	report	of	Public	Health	Inspector	on	the	above	industry	/	business,	I	recommend	/	
do	not	recommend	to	issue	the	license	for	the	Year	20	............
                                                                                                                           ..................................
																																																																																																										 									Medical	Officer	of	Health.
Secretary
I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	the	license.	The	following	conditions	must	be	fulfilled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date	:	..........................		 	 	 	 	 	 													...................................
																																																																																																									 											Chief	Revenue	Inspector.

<!-- page 345 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
345A
Chairman
I	recommend	/	I	do	not	recommend	issuing	the	above	license	and	forward.
                                                                                                     
Date	:	...............................			 	 	 	 																																							...........................
                                                                                                                            Secretary
Instructions of the Chairman
	 	 On	 the	recommendation	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	I	approve	/	do	not	approve	the	issuance	
of	the	license	for	.................................................................................	being	carried	out	at.............
....................................................................,	for	the	year	of	20……..
                                                                                                                     .............................
	Date:	................			 	 	 	 	 	 																							Chairman
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Note of Management Service Officer
License	Fee	Rs.	 	 :	....................................
Receipt	No.	&	Date	 :	....................................
License	No.	&	Date	 :	HO/PS/TL/	.................
BY-LAW RELATING TO BEAUTY CENTERS
1.  This	By-law	is	enacted	to	control	and	regulate	the	maintenance	of	Beauty	Centers	maintained	within	
the	authority	area	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha.	
   
2.	 	This	By-law	is	cited	as	the	By-law	Relating	To		 Beauty	Centers	of	the	Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
   
3.	 	The	Pradeshiya	Sabha	is	vested	with	powers	to	formulate	these	By-laws	by	virtue	of	Section	122	of	
Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.15	of	1987	read	with	the	Sub-Section	126	(xxiii)	of	the	said	Act.	
   
4.	 	No	person	within	the	jurisdiction	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	
authority	area)	shall	maintain	a	beauty	center	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	premises)	except	under	a	
license	obtained	from	the	Chairman	under	this	By-law.	
   
5.	 	All	persons	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-law	shall	apply	for	it	under	an	application	prepared	in	
accordance	with	the	schedule	under	this	By-law.	
   
6.	 	Submission	of	an	application	under	the	above	section	can	be	made	by	fulfilling	the	requirements	and	
submitting	an	application	to	the	Chairman	by	registered	post,	handing	over	in	hand	or	by	e-mail	to	the	
extent	permitted	by	the	Council.	
             .....................................
Management	Services	Officer	(Revenue)
Short title.
Legal Power.
Applying for 
a License.

<!-- page 346 -->

346A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
7.	 Any	person	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	not	be	issued	a	license	by	the	Chairman	
unless	the	following	conditions	are	met	herein.	
   
	 (1)		Conditions	 related	to	a	License	Constructions	relating	to	the	premises	shall	be	constructions	duly	
made	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	the	Urban	Development	Authority	Act	No.	41	of	1978	
or	the	Housing	and	Urban	Development	Ordinance.			 	 	
	 (2)		The	premises	shall	be	maintained	under	its	own	business	name.		
   
	 (3)	 The	License	holder	shall	confirm	that	a	person	with	a	Certificate	in	Beauty	Certificate	or	a	similar	
vocational	competency	certificate	conducted	by	a	training	institute	registered	with	the	Tertiary	
and	Vocational	Education	Commission	is	employed	on	the	premises.	
 
	 (4)	 Constructions	on	the	premises	shall	be	made	of	permanent	construction	materials	and	shall	be	of	
good and hygienic condition. 
   
	 (5)	 Adequate	space	shall	be	provided	in	proportion	to	the	number	of	clients	simultaneously	serving	
not	less	than	2.25	square	meters	of	floor	area	separately	for	each	client.	
   
	 (6)	 For	any	client	who	arrive	therein	in	anticipation	of	services	shall	provide	with	adequate	space	to	
be	seated	conveniently	with	at	least	1:5	meters	distance	from	the	place	where	another	client	is	
being	served.	
   
	 (7)	 All	walls	of	the	premises	shall	be	not	less	than	2.7	meters	in	height	and	shall	be	painted.	
   
	 (8)	 All	sections	of	the	premises	shall	be	finished	with	a	ceiling	or	concrete	plate	and	shall	be	at	least	
2.7	meters	above	the	ground	level.	
   
	 (9)	 The	premises	shall	be	air-conditioned	or	have	windows	that	can	be	opened	sufficiently	to	allow	
air	to	flow	in	from	the	outside.	
   
	 (10)		 The	premises	shall	be	well	finished	so	that	the	relevant	light	is	well	received.		
   
	 (11)		 Drinking	water	shall	be	adequately	supplied	for	the	use	of	the	premises	and	shall	be	stored	in	 	 
  containers which meet the standards. 
   
	 (12)		 Facilities	shall	be	provided	for	bathing	when	required	after	providing	the	services	of	the	 
   client. 
   
	 (13)		 A	separate	part	of	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	for	washing	the	equipment	and	containers	 
	used	for	the	clients.
 
	 (14)		 There	shall	be	adequate	latrine	facilities	for	the	employees	and	customers	of	the	institution	and	 
		it	shall	be	constructed	of	permanent	materials	in	a	proper	and	hygienic	manner.	
   
	 (15)			 Specific	equipment	shall	be	fixed	for	washing	the	hands,	head	or	face	of	the	customers	and	they	
Conditions	related	
to a License.

<!-- page 347 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
347A
shall	be	cleaned	and	disinfected	after	use	by	one	person	before	being	used	by	another	and	that	
equipment	shall	be	made	of	stainless	materials.	
   
	 (16)	Adequate	 measures	shall	be	taken	not	flow	the	wastewater	discharged	from	the	premises	into	
public	drains	or	open	ground	and	shall	be	properly	directed	to	a	septic	tank	or	a	soakage	pit.	
 
	 (17)	A	septic	tank	or	soakage	pit	relevant	to	the	premises	shall	not	be	open	to	the	outside	and	if	there	
is	a	water	source	it	shall	be	constructed	at	a	distance	of	at	least	15.25	meters	away.			
   
	 (18)	If	 there	is	a	disposal	of	chemical	wastewater	from	the	premises,	the	relevant	disposal	shall	be	
made	in	accordance	with	a	procedure	recommended	by	the	Central	Environmental	Authority	or	
the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	the	Public	Health	Inspector.	
   
	 (19)	There	 shall	be	a	separate	area	on	the	premises	with	adequate	facilities	for	the	customers	waiting	
for	services.	
   
	 (20)	The	 electrical	circuit	in	the	premises	shall	be	checked	by	a	professional	and	certified	to	be	safe	
from leakage. 
   
8.	 Within	fourteen	 days	 of	 receipt	 of	 an	 application	 for	 a	 license	 made	 under	 this	 By-Law,	the	
Chairman;	
   
	 (1)	 Shall	issue	a	license	to	the	applicant	related	to	the	premises	if	it	is	in	accordance	with	the	conditions	
mentioned	in	Section	7.	
   
	 (2)	 Shall	reject	the	relevant	application	with	reasons	if	it	is	not	complied	with	the	conditions	mentioned	
in	Section	7.	
   
9.	 (1)	 The	fees	to	be	charged	for	a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	shall	be	the	fees	to	be	decided	and	
declared	by	the	Council	subject	to	the	provisions	of	the	Basic	Law.	
   
	 (2)	 It	shall	be	lawful	for	the	Council	to	decide	and	charge	an	inspection	fee	for	site	inspections	in	
connection	with	the	issuance	of	a	license.	
   
10.		If	a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	is	not	previously	cancelled	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-Law,	it	shall	be	valid	until	December	thirty	first	of	the	year	in	which	the	license	is	
related. 
   
11.		All	persons	received	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	following	conditions	
herein. 
   
	 (1)	 If	there	are	any	terms	prescribed	by	the	Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
time	to	time	in	order	to	control	an	epidemic	situation	declared	throughout	Sri	Lanka	or	in	any	part	
of	the	country	or	relevant	to	the	authority	area	or	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	has	been	declared	
applicable	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	or	regulations	made	under	
it,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	subject	to	all	such	terms.	
Issuing	a	license.
Fees	for	a	license.

<!-- page 348 -->

348A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
 (2)	 All	persons	employed	on	the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	all	orders	issued	by	the	
Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	in	the	event	of	an	outbreak	of	an	
epidemic	being	declared	under	the	regulations	made	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	
Diseases Ordinance. 
   
	 (3)	 Whenever	there	is	a	suspicion	of	a	risk	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	service	facilities	
shall	not	be	provided	on	the	premises	unless	all	persons	seeking	services	come	to	the	premises	in	
accordance	with	the	relevant	health	guidelines	issued.	
   
	 (4)	 Health	safety	instructions	shall	be	implemented	properly	on	the	premises	as	directed	by	the	
Director	General	of	Health	Services	or	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	by	the	Chairman	on	their	
instructions,	in	case	of	any	outbreak	or	risk	of	any	epidemic	in	the	authority	area	to	protect	from	
it,	and	the	license	holder	shall	be	satisfied	that	it	is	being	so.	
   
	 (5)	 An	information	register	shall	be	maintained	relevant	to	all	those	who	come	to	the	premises	
expecting	services.	
   
	 (6)	 Every	time	engages	in	haircuts,	hair	colorings,	beards	and	hair	removal	of	the	customers,	everyone	
who	engages	in	such	activities	shall	wear	face	masks	and	gloves	as	much	as	possible.	
   
	 (7)	 To	manage	and	maintain	equipment	and	utensils	on	the	premises,	the	license	holder	shall	ensure	
that there are, 
	 	 (A)	 Adequate	facilities	for	the	sterilization	of	used	equipment	and	utensils;	
	 	 (B)	an	accepted	sterilization	method	and	a	adequate	number	of	equipment	used	for	sterilization;
 
	 	 (C)	 Soap	or	soapy	liquid	with	hand	washing	facilities	when	providing	services	to	the	service	
providers	inside;	
	 	 (D)	 Adequate	number	of	white	or	other	light	colored	towels	and	upper	body	covers	and	hats	for	
the	use	of	the	clients;	
	 	 (E)	 When	electric	power	tools	are	used,	secure	and	permanent	power	plugs,	to	one	customer's	
desk;	
	 	 (F)	Sterilization	methods	after	each	use	of	equipment.
    
	 (8)	 Every	employee	working	on	the	premises	shall	have	a	training	in	the	use	of	safety	equipment,	
service	delivery	and	other	activities	related	to	the	premises.	
   
	 (9)	 Facilities	shall	be	available	to	provide	hot	and	cold	water	as	required	for	the	services	relevant	to	
the premises. 
 
	 (10)	Everything	 used	 for	 cosmetic	 purposes	 shall	 be	 standardized	 things	 approved	 and	
registered. 
   
	 (11)	Service	providers	shall	be	well	trained	to	provide	first	aid	functions	as	required	under	the	services	
provided	on	the	premises.	

<!-- page 349 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
349A
	 (12)	The	windows	shall	be	kept	open	for	good	circulation	of	air	in	the	premises,	and	if	air	conditioned,	
all	air	conditioners	shall	be	kept	constant	at	the	prescribed	temperature.	
   
	 (13)	The	 filters	 of	 the	 air	 conditioners	 in	 the	 premises	 shall	 be	 regularly	 cleaned	 and	
maintained. 
	 (14)	The	 relevant	service	shall	be	provided	only	after	the	hands	have	been	cleaned	with	soap	or	
sanitizer	before	providing	the	service	to	a	customer.	
   
	 (15)	When	working	on	the	premises,	the	service	shall	not	be	provided	to	a	customer	without	adequate	
cleaning	prior	to	service	after	the	use	of	toilets	or	after	contact	with	any	contaminants.	
   
	 (16)	When	 serving	the	customers	on	the	premises,	every	service	provider	shall	wear	an	apron	and	it	
shall	be	of	very	clean	condition.	
   
	 (17)	Dust	 and	hair	shall	be	swept	and	removed	after	each	service	on	the	premises,	and	all	shall	be	
temporarily disposed into a sealed garbage bin. 
   
	 (18)	Floor,	chairs,	and	tables	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	daily	with	disinfectants	before	starting	
work. 
   
	 (19)	No	person	shall	use	the	service	area	of	the	premises	for	eating	or	any	other	purpose.	
   
.	 (20)	Foot-operated	garbage	bins	with	lids	shall	be	kept	for	the	separate	collection	of	waste	collected	
in the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that. 
 
	 (21)	The	following	procedures	shall	be	followed	in	the	management	of	waste	that	collects	in	relation	
to the premises.
	 	 (A)	 Removed	hair	shall	be	collected	at	the	end	of	each	service	and	disposed	in	a	separate	garbage	
bin. 
	 	 (B)	 Other	waste	generated	by	the	activities	in	the	premises	shall	be	collected	separately	without	
mixing	them	with	the	discharged	hair.	
	 	 (C)	 The	waste	related	to	the	premises	shall	be	disposed	in	accordance	with	the	waste	management	
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in accordance with the waste disposal strategy 
implemented	by	the	license	holder	as	agreed	by	the	Public	Health	Inspector.		
   
	 (22)	Latrines	in	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	and	disinfected	at	least	twice	a	day	and	shall	be	kept	free	
from	odor,	and	in	the	event	of	an	outbreak	or	suspicion	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	the	
latrines	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	and	maintained	in	accordance	with	the	guidelines	given	
by	the	Chairman	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health.	
   
	 (23)	Any	 person	who	suffers	from	any	infection,	transmittable	or	skin	disease,	or	who	has	recently	
suffered	from	such	a	disease,	or	who	has	recently	nursing	a	person	who	has	recently	infected	from	
any	such	disease,	unless	the	period	of	infection	and	incubation	has	expired,	shall	not	be	employed	
or employed as an assistant at any licensed place. 

<!-- page 350 -->

350A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
 (24)	Any	 person	identified	as	suffering	from	any	infection,	transmittable	or	skin	disease	shall	not	
normally	be	entered	to	the	premises	for	service.	
   
	 (25)	When	 the	license	holder	decides	or	in	case	where	it	is	prescribed	by	the	Council	or	any	other	
competent	authority	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	the	body	temperature	of	
all	persons	visit	seeking	service	on	the	premises	shall	be	checked	to	ensure	that	their	body	
temperature	is	at	a	normal	level	and	entered	into	the	premises,	and	required	thermometers	shall	
be	maintained	to	check	body	temperature	without	contact.	
  
	 (26)	The	 health	guidelines	to	be	followed	by	each	client	on	the	premises	shall	be	displayed	on	the	
premises	and	the	license	holder	shall	ensure	that	all	activities	are	carried	out	in	accordance	with	
those	guidelines.	
   
	 (27)	Applies	to	everyone	employed	on	the	premises,	the	license	holder	shall	ensure	that,	
  
	 	 (A)	 That	the	clothing	worn	at	work	is	clean	and	in	good	health	condition,	
	 	 (B)	 That	the	jewelry	worn	and	their	nails	are	maintained	in	a	manner	that	does	not	harm	the	
customer,	
	 	 (C)	 That	the	hands	are	sanitized	and	cleaned	prior	to	service.	
   
	 (28)	It	is	the	job	of	the	license	holder	to	subject	the	employees	of	the	premises	to	medical	checkups	at	
least once a year. 
   
	 (29)	A	copy	of	this	By-law	and	license	shall	be	maintained	on	display	in	each	premises.
 
12.		Taking	into	account	the	possible	causes	of	the	spread	of	an	epidemic	in	the	area,	when	the	Chairman	has	
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of	the	premises	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	the	license	holder	shall	enter	into	a	
statement	of	agreement	with	the	Chairman,	and	the	Chairman	shall	send	a	copy	of	it	to	the	Medical	
Officer	of	Health.	
   
13.		In	the	event	of	an	order	is	in	effect	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	
relating	to	any	epidemic	situation	pertaining	to	the	authority	area,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	in	
accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
14.		It	is	lawful	for	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	any	other	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	to	enter	the	
premises	at	any	reasonable	time	to	inspect	the	premises	whether	it	is	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-Law	and	obtain	the	required	samples.	
   
15.	(1)	 In	the	event	that	a	premises	licensed	under	this	By-Law	violates	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	or	
acts	against	it,	the	Chairman	shall	submit	a	notice	to	the	license	holder	informing	a	specific	time	
period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-Law. 
   
	 (2)	 After	submission	of	a	notice	under	this	Section	to	the	license	holder,	the	Chairman	may	grant	
an	additional	period	of	time	upon	a	reasonable	request	to	further	extend	the	time	period	to	be	
in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	the	relevant	notice.	The	period	granted	so	shall	be	subject	to	a	
maximum	period	of	fourteen	days	in	addition	to	the	period	specified	in	the	first	notice.	
Power to enter 
the premises.
Cancellation	of	
the license.

<!-- page 351 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
351A
16.		 The	Chairman	shall	cancel	the	relevant	license	in	the	event	that	the	license	holder	neglect	being	
complied	with	the	notice	within	the	period	of	time	or	additional	period	given	under	Section	15	
above.	
   
17.		 It	is	an	offense	to	maintain	a	premises	without	a	license	to	be	obtained	under	this	By-Law	or	in	
violation	of	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	and	after	being	convicted	by	a	Magistrate	Court	for	that	
offense,	shall	be	subject	to	a	penalty	under	Sub-Section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	
of	1987.	Further,	after	being	found	guilty	of	such	an	offense,	if	the	violation	continues	even	after	
the	notice	has	been	given	by	the	Chairman	or	an	officer	authorized	by	him,	he	shall	be	subject	to	an	
additional	penalty	referred	to	in	the	aforesaid	Sub-Section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	
15	of	1987	for	each	day	of	such	violation.	
   
18.		 Unless	other	meaning	is	required	with	regard	to	text,	in	this	By-Law,
	 	 “Council”	means	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 	 “Chairman”	means	the	person	who	hold	the	office	of	the	Chairman	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	
Sabha	at	that	time	or	an	officer	who	performs	the	duties	of	that	position,
	 	 “Medical	Officer	of	Health”	means	the	person	who	holds	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
Division	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 	 “Public	Health	Inspector”	means	a	person	who	holds	the	office	of	Public	Health	Inspector	attached	
to	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	relevant	to	the	authority	area	
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
	 	 "Disinfectant"	means	to	reduce	the	amount	of	microorganisms	in	the	environment	by	a	chemical	
agent	or	physical	means	to	a	level	that	does	not	reduce	the	safety	or	suitability,
			 		"Reasonable	Time"	shall	mean	the	Licensed	Function	or	the	relevant	time.					
   
19.		 If	there	is	any	inconsistency	between	the	Sinhala,	Tamil	and	English	texts	of	this	By-Law,	the	Sinhala	
text	shall	prevail.	
            
Inconsistency 
between	texts.
Penalty.
Definitions.

<!-- page 352 -->

352A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
      
	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 				Application	Number:
Fill up the “A” section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Office / 
Wethara Sub Office of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head	Office	/	Wethara	Sub	Office
Application	for	a	Trade	License	for	the	year	20	..........
 "A"
1.	Name	of	trader:	......................................................................................................................
2.	Name	and	address	of	the	place	of	business:	...............................................	......................................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
3.	Personal	address	of	the	trader:	...............................................................................................
4.	National	Identity	Card	Number	of	the	trader:	...........................................	.............................
5.	Telephone	Number:	................................................................................................	..........................
6.	Name	and	address	of	the	owner	of	the	building	where	the	business	is	located	:	.............................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
7.	Grama	Niladhari	Division	Number	and	Name:	.........................................	........................................
8.	Assessment	Number	and	Street	of	the	business	place	:	....................................................................
9.	Commencement	date	of	the	Business	:	.............................................................................................
10.	Nature	of	the	business	for	which	the	license	is	applied	for:	..........................................................
It	is	requested	to	grand	the	license	to	carry	on	the	above	said	business	for	the	year	20	............	
Date:	.....................		 	 	 	 	 	 													...............................
																																																																																																													 									Signature	of	the	applicant.
For official use
"B"	Revenue	Inspector	Report
1.		Extent	of	the	business	premises:	...................................................................................................
2.	 Number	of	employees	in	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	.....................................
3.		Annual	value	of	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	....................................................
4.		Nature	of	the	building:	.............................................	..........................................................................
5.		Nature	of	the	Business	(As	per	Gazette):	.........................	Permanent	/	Temporary	..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
    
Date:	...................																																																															 	 											.......................................
																																																																																																																		 	 			Revenue	Inspector.

<!-- page 353 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
353A
Medical Officer of Health: - ............................................. ....
I	refer	for	your	recommendations.
                                                                                                               ...................................... 
																																																																																													Chief	Management	Service	Officer	(Revenue).
Medical Officer of Health: .............................................
	 	 I		 recommend	/	do	not	recommend	granting	license	for	this	business.	Please	inform	the	Chairman	
of		Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	to	instruct	the	applicant	to	fulfill	the	following	recommendations.
1. ..............................................................................................................................................................
2. ..............................................................................................................................................................
3. ..............................................................................................................................................................
4.	..............................................................................................................................................................
5.	..............................................................................................................................................................
6. ..............................................................................................................................................................
7.	..............................................................................................................................................................
8.	..............................................................................................................................................................
9.	..............................................................................................................................................................
10.	............................................................................................................................................................
Date	:-	.......................																																																																																															...................................
																																																																																																									 													Public	Health	Inspector.
Recommendation of the Medical Officer of Health
	 	 As	 per	the	above	said	report	of	Public	Health	Inspector	on	the	above	industry	/	business,	I,	
recommend	/	do	not	recommend	to	issue	the	license	for	the	year	20	............
                                                                                                                               ..................................
																																																																																																										 								Medical	Officer	of	Health.
Secretary
I,	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	the	license.	The	following	conditions	must	be	fulfilled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date	:	..........................		 	 	 	 	 	 											...................................
																																																																																																									 									Chief	Revenue	Inspector.

<!-- page 354 -->

354A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
Chairman
I	recommend	/	I,	do	not	recommend	issuing	the	above	license	and	forward.
                                                                                                     
Date	:	...............................			 	 	 	 																																					...........................
                                                                                                                            Secretary.
Instructions of the Chairman
	 	 On	the	recommendation	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	I	approve	/	do	not	approve	the	issuance	of	
the	license	for	.................................................................................	being	carried	out	at......................
...........................................................,	for	the	year	of	20……..
                                                                                                                                .............................
	Date:	................			 	 	 	 	 	 																				Chairman,
                                                                                                              Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Note	of	Management	Service	Officer
BY-LAW REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTION PLACES
1.	 	This	By-law	is	enacted	to	regulate,	monitor,	inspect	and	control	food	production	places	within	the	
authority	area	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha.	
   
2.	 	This	By-law	is	cited	as	the	By-law	Regarding	Food	Production	Places	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	
Sabha. 
   
3.	 	The	Pradeshiya	Sabha	is	vested	with	powers	to	formulate	these	By-laws	by	virtue	of	Section	122	of	
Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.15	of	1987	read	with	the	Sub-Section	126(ix)	of	the	said	Act.	 	
  
4.	 	No	person	within	the	jurisdiction	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	
authority	area)	shall	maintain	a	place	where	food	is	produced	commercially	for	human	consumption	
(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	premises	in	some	places)	except	under	a	license	obtained	from	the	
Chairman	under	this	By-law.	
   
5.	 	All	persons	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-law	shall	apply	for	it	under	an	application	prepared	in	
accordance	with	the	schedule	published	in	this	By-Law.	
Short title.
Legal power.
That a license 
shall be obtained.
	License	Fee	Rs.	 	 :	....................................
	Receipt	No.	&	Date	 :	....................................
	License	No.	&	Date	 :	HO/PS/TL/	.................              .....................................
Management	Services	Officer.	(Revenue).
Applying for 
a License.

<!-- page 355 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
355A
6.	 Submission	of	an	application	under	the	above	section	can	be	made	by	fulfilling	the	requirements	and	
submitting	an	application	to	the	Chairman	by	registered	post,	handing	over	in	hand	or	by	e-mail	to	the	
extent	permitted	by	the	Council.	
   
7.	 Any	person	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	not	be	issued	a	license	by	the	Chairman	
unless	the	following	conditions	are	met	herein.	
   
	 (1)	 All	constructions	relating	to	the	premises	shall	be	constructions	duly	made	in	accordance	with	the	
provisions	of	the	Urban	Development	Authority	Act,	No.	41	of	1978	or	the	Housing	and	Urban	
Development	Ordinance	and;
	 	 (A)	 The	material	used	in	all	constructions	shall	not	emit	toxic	substances	and	shall	not	emit	toxic	
gases,	and	all	constructions	shall	be	made	up	of	surfaces	where	organisms	cannot	be	easily	
retained.
	 	 (B)	 The	internal	layout	shall	be	designed	with	adequate	space	to	enable	the	service	to	be	performed	
without	interruption.	
	 	 (C)	 Shall	be	designed	with	a	protective	layout	to	prevent	entry	of	contamination	substances	into	
food raw material and cooked food.
  (D)	Shall	be	designed	to	check	the	hygienic	conditions	of	the	internal	foods	of	the	premises.
		 	 (E)	 Things	disposed	under	the	internal	processing	activities	of	the	premises	shall	be	arranged	
with	references	that	will	not	flow	back	in	any	way.	
   
	 (2)	 	In	the	food	processing	area	of	the	premises,	
	 	 (A)	 	Floor	and	walls	shall	be	made	of	washable,	non-slip	and	non-absorbent	materials.
	 	 (B)		All	surfaces	shall	be	inactive	for	easily	cleaned	detergents	and	disinfectants.	
	 	 (C)		The	 ceiling	shall	be	constructed	to	minimize	condensation	and	to	prevent	fungus	formation	
and cracking.
	 	 (D)		If	 there	are	any	windows	and	other	openings,	they	shall	be	shielded	with	covers	prevent	
entering insects. 
	 	 (E)		Absorbent	 fans	shall	be	installed	to	allow	easy	flow	of	air	from	outside	and	to	flow	exhaust	
air	out.	
   
	 (3)	 Ensure	that	air	conditioners	operate	at	adequate	temperatures	when	adequate	ventilation	is	
provided	in	the	premises	or	air	conditioned,	and	all	air	conditioning	systems	shall	be	designed	to	
prevent	air	from	returning.	
    
	 (4)	 For	the	employees	on	the	premises;	
	 	 (A)	 If	 resided,	 there	 shall	 be	 room	 facilities	 with	 adequate	 sanitary	 facilities	 for	 the	
accommodation,and	it	shall	be	in	a	place	separate	from	the	food	preparation,	food	production	
or ingredients storage area. 
Conditions	for	
a license.

<!-- page 356 -->

356A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 					 (B)	Rooms	shall	be	arranged	so	that	at	least	four	square	meters	of	space	is	available	for	each	
employee to sleep. 
	 							(C)	Adequate	latrine	and	bathroom	facilities	shall	be	provided	for	both	females	and	males.	
   
	 (5)	 The	internal	structure	of	the	premises	shall	be	designed	so	that	customers	can	order	food	with	
adequate	space	with	physical	distancing	when	required.	
   
	 (6)	 There	shall	be	adequate	parking	facilities	for	customers.	
   
	 (7)	 Automatic	generators	and	water	storage	facilities	of	sufficient	capacity	shall	be	available	to	be	
utilized	in	the	event	of	an	emergency	power	outage	or	water	supply	failure.
    
	 (8)	 Internal	drains	and	waste	discharged	from	the	premises	shall	be	directed	to	a	septic	tank	or	a	
soakage	pit	and	if	that	soakage	pit	or	septic	tank	is	in	a	source	of	water,	it	shall	be	at	a	distance	
more	than	15.25	meters	away.	
   
8.	 Within	fourteen	days	of	receipt	of	the	application	for	a	license	to	be	issued	under	this	By-Law,	the	
Chairman;	
   
	 (1)	 Shall	issue	a	license	pertaining	to	the	premises	to	the	applicant	when	the	conditions	under	Section	
7	are	complied	with.	
   
	 (2)	 Shall	reject	the	relevant	application	with	reasons	if	the	conditions	under	Section	7	are	not	complied	
with. 
   
9.	 (1)	 The	fees	to	be	charged	for	a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	shall	be	the	fees	to	be	decided	and	
declared	by	the	Council	subject	to	the	provisions	of	the	Basic	Law.	
   
	 (2)	 It	shall	be	lawful	for	the	Council	to	decide	and	charge	an	inspection	fee	for	site	inspections	related	
to	the	issuance	of	a	license.		
   
10.		 If	 a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	is	not	previously	cancelled	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-Law,	it	shall	be	valid	until	December	thirty	first	of	the	year	in	which	the	license	
applies. 
   
11.		 All	 persons	receives	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	following	
conditions herein. 
   
	 (1)	 If	there	are	any	terms	prescribed	by	the	Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
time	to	time	in	order	to	control	an	epidemic	situation	declared	throughout	Sri	Lanka	or	in	any	part	
of	the	country	or	relevant	to	the	authority	area	or	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	has	been	declared	
applicable	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	or	regulations	made	under	
it,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	subject	to	all	such	terms.	
   
	 (2)	 All	persons	employed	on	the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	all	terms	made	by	the	Chairman	
on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	is	declared	applicable	
under	the	regulations	made	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Disease	Ordinance.	
   
	 (3)	 Whenever	there	is	a	suspicion	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	relating	to	all	persons	who	
come	to	the	premises	expecting	services,	services	shall	not	be	provided	unless	they	visit	the	
premises	in	accordance	with	the	relevant	health	guidelines	issued.	
Issuing	a	license.
Fees	for	a	license.
Inspection fees.
Validity period.
Conditions	
relevant	to
 a license.

<!-- page 357 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
357A
	 (4)	 When	there	is	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area	or	risk	of	an	epidemic,	the	health	safety	instructions	
prescribed	by	the	Director	General	of	Health	Services	or	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	the	
Chairman	as	per	their	instructions	shall	be	properly	implemented	in	the	premises	in	order	to	
protect	from	it	and	the	license	holder	shall	be	satisfied	that	it	is	being	so.	
   
	 (5)	 All	drains	in	the	premises	shall	be	easily	drained	and	the	effluent	and	sewage	shall	be	directed	to	
the	septic	tank,	soakage	pit	or	to	the	central	treatment	unit	according	to	the	approved	procedures	
and	the	necessary	action	shall	be	taken	to	prevent	contamination.	
   
	 (6)	 All	latrines	and	hand	washing	places	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	frequently	with	disinfectant	
and	appropriate	method	shall	be	maintained	to	ensure	that	all	of	them	are	being	so.	
   
	 (7)	 The	interior	floor	of	the	premises	shall	be	arranged	in	such	a	way	that	it	does	not	slip	easily,	and	if	
it	is	somewhat	easier	to	do	so	during	the	cleaning	process	boards	mentioning	on	that	regard	shall	
be	placed	in	such	a	place	visible	to	the	customers.	
   
	 (8)	 Drains	in	the	premises	shall	be	made	as	not	to	retain	water	and	shall	be	cleaned	with	disinfectants	
twice daily. 
   
	 (9)	 No	drain	or	sewage	pipe	in	the	premises	shall	be	directed	in	any	way	to	a	public	drain	of	the	road	
or	outside	area.	
   
	 (10)	The	premises	shall	be	maintained	in	such	a	way	that	there	is	no	external	odor	due	to	the	discharge	
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
	 (11)	Adequate	 facilities	shall	be	in	place	to	regulate	the	temperature	required	for	cooking	and	
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
	 (12)	All	equipment	and	utensils	used	for	food	preparation	shall	be	maintained	in	accordance	with	the	
following	requirements.	
   
	 	 (A)		 All	equipment	and	utensils	used	in	food	preparation	shall	be	made	of	a	non-absorbent	
material	that	does	not	emit	any	toxins,	tastes	or	odors	and	shall	be	made	of	stainless	material.
	 	 (B)	 All	equipment	and	utensils	shall	be	of	such	a	nature	as	to	be	easily	cleaned.
	 	 (C)	 Containers	used	for	waste	disposal	shall	be	made	of	metal	or	non-leaking	materials	and	shall	
have	lids.
	 	 (D)	 All	equipment	and	utensil	maintained	shall	be	of	a	suitable	condition	to	be	used.	
   
	 (13)	If	 food	is	to	be	distributed	outside	the	premises	during	production,	there	shall	be	a	specific	
designated place for it.
 
	 (14)	Containers	used	for	serving	food	shall	be	such	that	they	can	be	served	in	a	way	that	does	not	harm	
the taste of the food. 

<!-- page 358 -->

358A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (15)	Premises	 shall	have	separate	refrigeration	facilities	to	store	things	used	for	cooking	food	and	
cooked food or similar. 
   
	 (16)	Premises	shall	have	water	storage	facilities	and	the	relevant	containers	shall	be	stainless.	
   
	 (17)	Fruits	 and	 vegetables	 used	 in	 food	 preparation	 shall	 be	 thoroughly	 washed,	 cleaned	 and	
used.	
   
	 (18)	Water	 used	 in	 the	 premises	 shall	 be	 kept	 in	 non-hazardous	 containers	 free	 from	
contamination. 
   
	 (19)	The	ice	used	in	the	premises	shall	be	made	from	drinking	water.	
   
	 (20)	Water	pipes	in	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	so	that	they	can	be	distinguished	from	any	other	
pipeline. 
   
	 (21)	A	specific	internal	arrangement	shall	be	in	place	to	ensure	that	every	food	item	cooked	on	the	
premises	is	delivered	to	customers	without	hazard,	and	that	specifically	assigned	persons	shall	be	
employed	to	regulate	it.	
   
	 (22)	Meat	and	fish	brought	in	for	food	shall	be	stored	in	a	separate	refrigerator	on	the	premises	and	shall	
always	be	kept	at	a	temperature	of	two	degrees	Celsius	until	used	without	contamination.	
   
	 (23)	If	 an	order	has	been	issued	that	all	persons	should	wear	masks	when	socializing	when	an	
epidemic	situation	has	been	declared	in	the	authority	area	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	
of	Diseases	Ordinance	and	the	regulations	made	under	it	or	due	to	the	risk	of	an	epidemic	in	the	
authority	area,	any	person	not	wearing	a	face	mask	shall	not	be	allowed	to	enter	the	premises	for	
transactions. 
   
	 (24)	Everyone	 involved	 in	 food	 production	 shall	 use	 hats	 when	 involved	 in	 production	
activities.	
   
	 (25)	Food	 for	sale	on	the	premises	shall	not	be	kept	in	such	a	way	as	to	cause	contamination,	and	all	
activities	such	as	serving	food,	assembling	for	takeaway,	etc.,	shall	be	carried	out	under	a	specific	
procedure	using	appropriate	gloves.	
   
	 (26)	All	persons	involved	in	serving,	usage	or	assembling	food	on	the	premises;
	 	 (A)	Shall	not	touch	or	contact	food	with	their	open	hands	or	fingers	
	 	 (B)	Under	no	circumstances	shall	money	be	used	while	working.
	 	 (C)	Utensils	and	gloves	used	for	handling	food	shall	be	a	favorable		use	for	food.
	 	 (D)		 A	clean	towel	shall	be	used	to	wipe	hands.

<!-- page 359 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
359A
  (E)		The	bottom	of	a	used	plate,	cup	or	other	container	shall	always	be	kept	out	of	contact	with	
any food. 
	 	 (F)	 All	utensils	used	for	food	serving	shall	be	kept	thoroughly	clean	and	in	separate	containers.
 
	 	 (G)	 Employees	shall	work	to	use,	assemble	food	in	such	a	way	that	their	activity,	usage	does	not	
cause	food	contamination	or	microbial	proliferation	in	any	way.
	 	 (H)		 What	is	taken	for	food	wrapping	shall	not	be	a	source	of	food	contamination	in	any	
way. 
   
	 (27)	When	 the	Chairman	has	declared	a	disease	condition	applicable	under	the	Quarantine	and	
Prevention	of	Disease	Ordinance	in	the	authority	area	or	under	the	orders	made	under	it	or	has	
declared	that	there	is	a	risk	of	any	epidemic	disease	in	the	authority	area	as	per	the	instructions	
of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	all	persons	involved	in	preparing,	usage,	serving,	or	assembling	
food	on	the	premises	shall	maintain	the	premises	in	accordance	with	the	directives	made	by	the	
Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	by	the	Chairman	as	per	their	instructions	
in	addition	to	any	other	provisions	of	this	By-Law.	
   
	 (28)	(A)	Any	work	related	to	food	production	on	the	premises	shall	not	be	open	to	a	public	road	or	
public	space	or	shall	not	be	done	in	a	space	where	air	flows	easily	from	such	a	public	road	or	open	
space	for	the	general	public,	and	food	production	activities	shall	take	place	in	an	enclosed	space	
within the premises.
	 	 (B)		 Chimneys	and	absorbent	fans	shall	be	installed	so	that	hot	air	and	steam	generated	in	the	
closed	space	for	food	production	can	flow	easily.
	 	 (C)	 Noise	generated	from	any	approved	activity	in	food	production	shall	not	be	a	disturbance	in	
any	way	to	the	public	or	consumers.	
 
	 (29)	Tables	 for	serving	and	consuming	food	on	the	premises	shall	be	in	very	clean	condition	and	
disinfected	after	each	serve	and	consumption	and	the	towels	used	for	cleaning	shall	be	of	clean	
condition. 
   
	 (30)	Surfaces	 that	are	touched	by	the	customers	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	frequently	with	
disinfectants. 
   
	 (31)	All	cooked	food	that	can	be	easily	spoiled	among	the	cooked	food	on	the	premises	shall	be	kept	at	
a	temperature	not	exceeding	four	degrees	Celsius	or	else	below	60	degrees	Celsius	except	in	the	
following cases. Occasions where it is not, shall be as follows. 
   
	 	 (A)		 In	cases	where	the	entire	collection	is	not	exposed	or	displayed	for	sale	for	more	than	two	 
								hours	or
	 	 (B)	 When	preparation	and	serving	are	done	in	an	approximate	time	period.	
   
	 (32)	Pastries,	 patties,	savories,	pizza	and	similar	food	which	include	cooked	meat	or	fish	which	

<!-- page 360 -->

360A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
are	consumed	in	the	condition	where	there	are	normally	sold	on	the	premises	shall	be	kept	in	
containers	with	covers.	
   
	 (33)	Milk	 for	use	on	the	premises	shall	be	kept	in	a	refrigerator	at	a	temperature	not	exceeding	seven	
degrees	Celsius.	
   
	 (34)	Pesticide	materials	kept	on	the	premises	shall	be	kept	in	a	locked	container	at	a	specific	place	on	
the premises. 
   
	 (35)	The	 area	for	employee	facilities	in	the	premises	shall	be	with	adequate	sanitary	facilities	and	
shall	be	spacious	and	latrines	for	both	males	and	females	shall	be	maintained	in	accordance	with	
sanitary standards. 
   
	 (36)	Prior	 to	disposal	of	waste	collected	in	the	premises,	they	shall	be	maintained	in	such	a	way	that	
they	do	not	affect	the	things	used	on	the	premises	in	any	way	and	does	not	cause	contamination	
of food. 
   
	 (37)	Cleaning	 activities	on	the	premises	shall	be	carried	out	on	a	regular	schedule	subject	to	the	
following:	
   
	 	 (A)		 A	specific	task	assignment	shall	be	maintained	to	adequately	clean	all	sections	of	the	
institution,	and	to	prioritize	the	cleaning	and	application	of	disinfectants	in	the	specific	areas	
described in this By-Law.
	 	 (B)	 It	shall	be	the	work	of	the	license	holder	to	make	sure	that	the	work	under	(A)	above	is	carried	
out	precisely.
	 	 (C)		 Relevant	cleaning	activities	shall	be	done	to	prevent	dust	during	preparation	and	assembling	
of food in the premises.
	 	 (D)	 All	utensils	used	in	food	preparation	shall	be	maintained	so	that	parts	of	cooked	food	do	not	
remain in any way.
	 	 (E)	 The	water	used	for	cleaning,	detergents	and	disinfectants	shall	be	washed	away	so	that	it	does	
not remain on the containers in any way.
	 	 (F)	 The	ceiling,	walls,	etc.,	of	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	so	that	no	insects	remain.		
   
	 (38)	Pets	such	as	dogs	and	cats	shall	not	be	raised	on	the	premises	in	any	way.	
   
	 (39)	Employees	 working	on	the	premises	shall	have	undergone	a	training	in	food	hygiene	and	shall	
be	subjected	to	medical	checkups	within	a	period	prescribed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	to	
check	that	they	are	in	proper	health	condition.	Relevant	records	shall	also	be	maintained	so	that	
they	can	be	inspected	at	any	time	within	the	premises.	Also	the	health	check-ups	on	them	shall	be	
both clinical and epidemiological. 
	 (40)	A	health	monitoring	system	shall	be	set	up	regarding	the	employees	working	on	the	premises	and	
a	process	shall	be	put	in	place	to	get	the	health	advice	they	need. 
   

<!-- page 361 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
361A
	 (41)	The	waste	generated	on	the	premises	shall	be	disposed	in	accordance	with	the	waste	management	
program	implemented	by	the	Council	and	in	accordance	with	the	written	rules	applicable	to	
it. 
   
	 (42)	If	 the	waste	generated	on	the	premises	is	managed	by	the	license	holder	himself,	the	Public	
Health	Inspector	in	charge	of	the	relevant	area	shall	be	informed	and	shall	act	in	accordance	with	
the	instructions	given	by	him.	
   
	 (43)	Prior	to	commencing	work	on	the	premises,	all	persons	working	on	the	premises	shall	not	engage	
in	cooking	and	assembling	food	without	adequate	sanitation	after	using	the	toilet	and	after	contact	
with	dirt,	and	everyone	who	engaged	in	work	so	shall	wear	a	clean	and	pocket-free	apron.	
   
	 (44)	Those	 who	 work	 as	 cashiers	 on	 the	 premises	 shall	 clean	 their	 hands	 frequently	 using	
disinfectants. 
   
	 (45)	Adequate	first	aid	facilities	shall	be	provided	on	the	premises.	
   
	 (46)	When	 instructions	have	been	given	to	use	gloves	or	masks	in	the	community	in	the	event	of	an	
epidemic,	if	any	person	entering	the	premises	disposes	the	mask	or	gloves	they	are	wearing	on	the	
premises,	the	disposable	mask	or	gloves	shall	be	disposed	to	closed	containers	that	are	kept	on	the	
premises	specifically	for	that	purpose,	and	such	waste	shall	be	disposed	in	accordance	with	the	
waste	management	program	and	instructions	implemented	by	the	Council	without	mixing	with	
other wastes. 
   
	 (47)	Every	person	involved	in	usage	of	food	on	the	premises	shall	maintain	maximum	hygiene	during	
handling	of	food	and	shall	always	wear	hats,	gloves,	masks,	shoes	and	appropriate	hygienic	
clothing. 
   
	 (48)	A	person	suffering	from	any	infectious	disease	or	suspected	to	be	infected	with	such	a	disease	or	a	
vector	of	such	a	disease	or	a	person	infected	with	wounds,	skin	infections	or	any	other	infectious	
disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   
	 (59)	Every	 person	involved	in	usage	of	food	on	the	premises	shall	not	engage	in	activities	such	
as	 smoking,	 spitting,	 coughing,	 sneezing,	 or	 touching	 the	 nose,	 which	 can	 cause	 food	
contamination. 
   
	 (50)	If	 there	are	enough	facts	to	think	that	any	person	is	suffering	from	an	infectious	disease	or	an	
epidemic he shall not be entered to the premises. 
   
	 (51)	If	an	employee	serving	on	the	premises	contracted	an	infectious,	transmittable	or	skin	disease,	the	
license	holder	shall	notify	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	and	upon	such	notification,	all	persons	on	
the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	quarantine	instructions	given	by	the	Medical	Officer	
of	Health	or	a	Public	Health	Inspector	authorized	by	him.	
   
	 (52)	The	license	holder	shall	take	every	step	to	maintain	the	premises	in	such	a	way	not	to	happen	or	not	
to	do	any	activity	in	any	way	that	could	cause	food	contamination	during	food	production.	

<!-- page 362 -->

362A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (53)	The	 license	holder	shall	have	provided	all	information	regarding	the	employees	working	on	the	
premises	to	the	Chairman.	
   
12.	(1)	 It	shall	also	be	lawful	for	the	Chairman	to	grade	a	premises	relevant	to	this	By-Law	according	
to	the	recommendations	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	taking	into	account	the	quality	when	
fulfilling	the	conditions	under	this	By-Law.	
   
	 (2)	 Where	the	Chairman	has	graded	under	this	section,	the	grade	of	the	premises	for	the	year	relevant	
to	the	license	and	a	certificate	issued	by	the	Chairman	shall	be	displayed	on	the	premises	as	visible	
to	the	public.	
   
13.		It	is	lawful	for	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	any	other	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	to	enter	the	
premises	at	any	reasonable	time	to	inspect	the	premises	whether	it	is	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-Law	and	obtain	the	required	samples.	
   
14.		Taking	into	account	the	possible	causes	of	the	spread	of	an	epidemic	in	the	area,	when	the	Chairman	has	
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of	the	premises	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	the	license	holder	shall	enter	into	a	
statement	of	agreement	with	the	Chairman,	and	the	Chairman	shall	send	a	copy	of	it	to	the	Medical	
Officer	of	Health.	
   
15.		In	the	event	of	an	order	is	in	effect	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	
relating	to	any	epidemic	situation	pertaining	to	the	authority	area,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	in	
accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
16.		It	is	lawful	for	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	any	other	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	to	enter	the	
premises	at	any	reasonable	time	to	inspect	the	premises	whether	it	is	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-Law	and	obtain	the	required	samples.	
   
17.	(1)	 In	the	event	that	a	premises	licensed	under	this	By-Law	violates	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	or	
acts	against	it,	the	Chairman	shall	submit	a	notice	to	the	license	holder	informing	a	specific	time	
period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-Law. 
   
	 (2)	 After	submission	of	a	notice	under	this	Section	to	the	license	holder,	the	Chairman	may	grant	
an	additional	period	of	time	upon	a	reasonable	request	to	further	extend	the	time	period	to	be	
in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	the	relevant	notice.	The	period	granted	so	shall	be	subject	to	a	
maximum	period	of	fourteen	days	in	addition	to	the	period	specified	in	the	first	notice.	
   
18.		 The	 Chairman	shall	cancel	the	relevant	license	in	the	event	that	the	license	holder	neglect	being	
complied	with	the	notice	within	the	period	of	time	or	additional	period	given	under	Section	17	
above.	
   
19.		 It	 is	an	offense	to	maintain	a	premises	without	a	license	to	be	obtained	under	this	By-Law	or	in	
violation	of	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	and	after	being	convicted	by	a	Magistrate	Court	for	
that	offense,	shall	be	subject	to	a	penalty	under	Sub-Section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	
No.	15	of	1987.	Further,	after	being	found	guilty	of	such	an	offense,	if	the	violation	continues	
Grading	the
 premises.
On-site inspection 
and obtaining
samples.
Power to enter 
the premises.
Cancellation	of
the license.
Penalty.

<!-- page 363 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
363A
even	after	the	notice	has	been	given	by	the	Chairman	or	an	officer	authorized	by	him,	he	shall	be	
subject	to	an	additional	penalty	referred	to	in	the	aforesaid	Sub-Section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	
Sabha	Act	No.	15	of	1987	for	each	day	of	such	violation.	
    
20.		 Unless	other	meaning	is	required	with	regard	to	text,	in	this	By-Law,
	 	 “Council”	means	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 	 “Chairman”	means	the	person	who	hold	the	office	of	the	Chairman	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	
Sabha	at	that	time	or	the	person	who	performs	the	duties	of	that	position,
	 	 “Medical	Officer	of	Health”	means	the	person	who	holds	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
Division	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 	 “Public	Health	Inspector”	means	a	person	who	holds	the	office	of	Public	Health	Inspector	attached	to	
the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
	 	 “License	holder”	means	an	institution,	person	or	an	individual	who	has	obtained	a	license	under	this	
By-Law,
	 	 “Authorized	Officer”	means	the	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	at	that	
time,
	 	 "Contamination"	means	the	entry	or	occurrence	of	contamination	substance	in	a	food,	
	 	 "Disinfectants"	means	reducing	the	amount	of	microorganisms	in	the	environment	by	chemicals	or	
physical	means	to	a	state	that	do	not	reduce	the	safety	or	suitability	of	the	food,
	 	 "Food	hygiene"	means	all	the	conditions,	steps	and	practices	to	ensure	the	safety	and	suitability	of	
food at all stages in the food chain,
	 	 "Hazards"	means	a	biological,	chemical,	or	condition	that	is	likely	to	cause	adverse	health	effects,
	 	 "Food"	means	the	things	produced	and	kept	for	sale	in	the	institution	for	the	human	consumption	as	
food	or	drinks	and	the	separate	things	used	to	prepare	food.
	 	 "Reasonable	time"	means	any	time	engaged	in	a	licensed	activity	or	related	work,	
	 	 "Basic	Law"	means	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	No.	15	of	1987	.	 	
   
21.		 If	there	is	any	inconsistency	between	the	Sinhala,	Tamil	and	English	texts	of	this	By-Law,	the	Sinhala	
text	shall	prevail.	
Inconsistency 
between	texts.
Definitions.

<!-- page 364 -->

364A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
           
	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 				Application	Number:
Fill up the “A” section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Office / 
Wethara Sub Office of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head	Office	/	Wethara	Sub	Office
Application	for	a	Trade	License	for	the	Year	20	..........
 "A"
1.	Name	of	trader:	......................................................................................................................
2.	Name	and	address	of	the	place	of	business:	...............................................	......................................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
3.	Personal	address	of	the	trader:	...............................................................................................
4.	National	Identity	Card	Number	of	the	trader:	...........................................	.............................
5.	Telephone	Number:	................................................................................................	..........................
6.	Name	and	address	of	the	owner	of	the	building	where	the	business	is	located	:	.............................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
7.	Grama	Niladhari	Division	Number	and	Name:	.........................................	........................................
8.	Assessment	Number	and	Street	of	the	business	place	:	....................................................................
9.	Commencement	date	of	the	Business	:	.............................................................................................
10.	Nature	of	the	business	for	which	the	license	is	applied	for:	..........................................................
It	is	requested	to	grand	the	license	to	carry	on	the	above	said	business	for	the	year	20	............	
Date:	.....................		 	 	 	 	 	 	 ...............................
																																																																																																													 									Signature	of	the	applicant.
For official use
"B"	Revenue	Inspector	Report
1.		Extent	of	the	business	premises:	...................................................................................................
2.	 Number	of	employees	in	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	.....................................
3.		Annual	value	of	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	....................................................
4.		Nature	of	the	building:	.............................................	..........................................................................
5.		Nature	of	the	Business	(As	per	Gazette):	.........................	Permanent	/	Temporary	..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
    
Date:	...................																																																															 	 											.......................................
																																																																																																																 	 	Revenue	Inspector.

<!-- page 365 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
365A
Medical Officer of Health: - .............................................
I	refer	for	your	recommendations.
                                                                                                                                            ...................................... 
																																																																																																																										Chief	Management	Service	Officer	(Revenue).
Medical Officer of Health: .............................................
I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	granting	license	for	this	business.	Please	inform	the	Chairman	of	Homagama	Pradeshiya	
Sabha	to	instruct	the	applicant	to	fulfill	the	following	recommendations.
1. ..............................................................................................................................................................
2. ..............................................................................................................................................................
3. ..............................................................................................................................................................
4.	..............................................................................................................................................................
5.	..............................................................................................................................................................
6. ..............................................................................................................................................................
7.	..............................................................................................................................................................
8.	..............................................................................................................................................................
9.	..............................................................................................................................................................
10.	............................................................................................................................................................
Date	:-	.......................
                                                                                                               ...................................
																																																																																																									 	 		Public	Health	Inspector.
Recommendation of the Medical Officer of Health
As	per	the	above	said	report	of	Public	Health	Inspector	on	the	above	industry	/	business,	I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	
to	issue	the	license	for	the	year	20	............
                                                                                                                                ..................................
																																																																																																										 									Medical	Officer	of	Health.
Secretary
I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	the	license.	The	following	conditions	must	be	fulfilled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
     
                                                                                        
Date	:	..........................		 	 	 	 	 	 													...................................
																																																																																																									 										Chief	Revenue	Inspector.

<!-- page 366 -->

366A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
Chairman
I	recommend	/	I	do	not	recommend	issuing	the	above	license	and	forward.
                                                                                                     
Date	:	...............................			 	 	 	 																																				...........................
                                                                                                                            Secretary.
Instructions of the Chairman
	 	 On	 the	recommendation	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	I	approve	/	do	not	approve	the	issuance	
of	the	license	for	.................................................................................	being	carried	out	at..............
...................................................................,	for	the	year	of	20……..
                                                                                                                     .............................
	Date:	................			 	 	 	 	 	 																								Chairman
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Note of Management Service Officer
BY-LAW RELATING TO HOTELS
   
1.  It	is	hereby	informed	that	the	By-laws	on	maintenance	of	Hotels	and	Lodging	houses,	which	is	specified	
in the Gazette	notification	No.	1986	and	dated	23.09.2016	of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	
Sri	Lanka,	that	is	adopted	by	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,	same	is	published	in	Gazette	notification	
No.	1947/6	and	dated	28.12.2015	same	was	proposed	by	the	Minister	in	charge	of	Local	Government	
of	the	Western	Province	under	section	2	of	the	Local	Government	Authorities	(Standard	By-laws)	
Act,	No.	6	of	1952	which	should	be	read	with	Section	2	of	the	Provincial	Councils	(Consequential	
Provisions)	Act,	No.	12	of	1989,	will	be	repealed	after	31.12.2022	without	prejudice	the	actions	taken	
so	far	under	the	said	By-Laws	and	this	By-law	will	be	enacted	to	regulate,	supervise	and	control	the	
maintenance	of	hotels	within	the	jurisdiction	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha.	
   
2.	 	This	By-law	is	cited	as	the	By-law	Relating	to	Hotels	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha.	
   
3.	 	The	Pradeshiya	Sabha	is	vested	with	powers	to	formulate	these	By-laws	by	virtue	of	Section	122	of	
Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	No.15	of	1987	read	with	the	Sub-Section	126(ix)	of	the	said	Act.	
   
4.	 	No	person	within	the	jurisdiction	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	
authority	area)	shall	maintain	a	hotel	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	premises	in	some	places)	except	
under	a	license	obtained	from	the	Chairman	under	this	By-law. 
	License	Fee	Rs.	 	 :	....................................
	Receipt	No.	&	Date	 :	....................................
	License	No.	&	Date	 :	HO/PS/TL/	.................              .....................................
Management	Services	Officer	(Revenue).
Short title.

<!-- page 367 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
367A
5.		All	persons	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	apply	for	it	under	an	application	prepared	in	
accordance	with	the	schedule	published	in	this	By-Law.	
   
6.		Submission	of	an	application	under	the	above	section	5	can	be	made	by	fulfilling	the	requirements	and	
submitting	an	application	to	the	Chairman	by	registered	post,	handing	over	in	hand	or	by	e-mail	to	the	
extent	permitted	by	the	Council.	
   
7.		Any	person	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	not	be	issued	a	license	by	the	Chairman	
unless	the	following	conditions	are	met	herein.	
   
	 (1)	 All	constructions	relating	to	the	premises	shall	be	constructions	duly	made	in	accordance	with	the	
provisions	of	the	Urban	Development	Authority	Act	No.	41	of	1978	or	the	Housing	and	Urban	
Development	Ordinance	and;
 
	 	 (A)	 The	material	used	in	all	constructions	shall	not	emit	toxic	substances	and	shall	not	emit	
toxic	gases,	and	all	constructions	shall	be	made	up	of	surfaces	where	organisms	cannot	be	easily	
retained.
	 	 (B)	 The	internal	layout	shall	be	designed	with	adequate	space	to	enable	the	service	to	be	performed	
without	interruption.	
	 	 (C)	 Shall	be	designed	with	a	protective	layout	to	prevent	entry	of	contamination	substances	into	
food raw material and cooked food.
	 	 (D)	Shall	be	designed	to	check	the	hygienic	conditions	of	the	internal	foods	of	the	premises.
		 	 (E)	 Things	disposed	under	the	internal	processing	activities	of	the	premises	shall	be	arranged	with	
references	that	will	not	flow	back	in	any	way.	
   
	 (2)	 In	the	food	processing	area	of	the	premises,	
 
	 	 (A)	Floor	and	walls	shall	be	made	of	washable,	non-slip	and	non-absorbent	materials.
	 	 (B)	 All	surfaces	shall	be	inactive	for	easily	cleaned	detergents	and	disinfectants.	
	 	 (C)	 The	ceiling	shall	be	constructed	to	minimize	condensation	and	to	prevent	fungus	formation	
and cracking.
	 	 (D)	 If	there	are	any	windows	and	other	openings,	they	shall	be	shielded	with	covers	prevent	
entering insects. 
	 	 (E)	 Absorbent	fans	shall	be	installed	to	allow	easy	flow	of	air	from	outside	and	to	flow	exhaust	air	
out.	
   
	 (3)	 For	the	employees	on	the	premises;
 
	 	 (A)	 If	working	as	residents,	rooms	with	at	least	4	square	meters	of	space	per	person	shall	be	
provided	with	adequate	space	outside	the	relevant	section	for	customer	service.
Applying for 
a License.
Conditions	for	
a license.

<!-- page 368 -->

368A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (B)	Toilet	facilities	shall	be	provided	with	adequate	sanitation	facilities	and	shall	be	separated	as	males	
and females.
	 (C)	The	toilets	and	bathrooms	provided	shall	be	of	permanent	construction	and	shall	be	well-constructed	
and	built	outside	the	premises	for	the	customers.	
   
	 (4)	 Premises	shall	have	fire	safety	certificates	as	applicable	and	fire	safety	facilities	shall	be	provided	
in	the	premises	as	specified.	
   
	 (5)	 All	buildings	on	the	premises	shall	be	constructed	to	allow	access	to	persons	with	disabilities	and	
special needs. 
   
	 (6)	 Waste	generated	in	the	premises	shall	be	disposed	of	in	accordance	with	the	waste	management	
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha and if the license holder himself disposes of the 
waste	in	the	premises,	the	method	followed	shall	be	a	method	approved	by	the	Public	Health	
Inspector. 
   
	 (7)	 When	entering	the	premises,	a	specific	procedure	shall	be	maintained	to	verify	the	identity	of	the	
entrants and to record it. 
   
	 (8)	 Adequate	parking	 space	 shall	 be	 maintained	 in	 or	 near	 the	 premises	 for	 visitors	 to	 the	
premises. 
   
	 (9)	 Boards	shall	be	fixed	so	that	customers	can	know	about	the	facilities	and	services	provided	on	the	
premises,	and	if	there	is	a	registered	business	name	or	a	corporate	name	registered	with	the	Sri	
Lanka	Tourism	Authority,	the	relevant	registration	number	shall	be	prominently	displayed.	
   
	 (10)	The	interior	design	of	the	premises	shall	be	designed	in	a	way	that	is	more	customer	friendly	and	
pleasing,	and	the	constructions	and	fixtures	made	shall	not	obstruct	to	the	safety	of	the	customer	
in any way. 
   
	 (11)	Staff	employed	or	to	be	employed	to	serve	customers	on	the	premises	shall	be	persons	trained	by	
reputed	institutions	to	provide	a	professional	service.	
   
8.		Within	fourteen	days	of	receipt	of	the	application	for	a	license	to	be	issued	under	this	By-Law,	the	
Chairman;	
   
	 (1)	 Shall	issue	a	license	pertaining	to	the	premises	to	the	applicant	when	the	conditions	under	Section	
7	are	complied	with.	
   
	 (2)	 Shall	reject	the	relevant	application	with	reasons	if	the	conditions	under	Section	7	are	not	complied	
with. 
   
9.	 (1)	 The	fees	to	be	charged	for	a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	shall	be	the	fees	to	be	decided	and	
declared	by	the	Council	subject	to	the	provisions	of	the	Basic	Law.	
   
Acting according 
to an application

<!-- page 369 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
369A
	 (2)	 It	shall	be	lawful	for	the	Council	to	decide	and	charge	an	inspection	fee	for	site	inspections	related	
to	the	issuance	of	a	license.	
   
10.		If	a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	is	not	previously	cancelled	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-Law,	it	shall	be	valid	until	December	thirty	first	of	the	year	in	which	the	license	
applies. 
   
11.		All	persons	receives	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	following	conditions	
herein. 
   
	 (1)	 If	the	license	holder	is	not	the	manager	of	the	institution,	the	identity	information	requested	by	
the	Chairman	regarding	the	manager	shall	be	provided,	and	it	shall	be	provided	so	whenever	
changed. 
   
	 (2)	 Loudspeakers	used	for	festive	occasions,	parties	or	other	activities	on	the	premises	shall	be	
maintained	in	accordance	with	environmental	regulations	and	terms	so	as	not	to	disturb	others	by	
playing	musical	instruments.	
   
	 (3)	 Adequate	parking	facilities	shall	be	maintained	so	that	no	vehicles	come	to	the	premises	are	
parked	on	public	access.		
   
	 (4)	 Name,	address,	identity	card	number	and	contact	numbers	related	to	all	persons	comes	to	stay,	
and	if	there	are	information	to	be	maintained	specified	from	time	to	time	by	the	Director	of	Health	
Services	or	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	of	the	authority	area	or	the	Chairman	regarding	the	
persons	anticipating	services	under	the	health	reasons	in	the	authority	area	all	such	information	
shall	be	documented	and	maintained.	
   
	 (5)	 If	there	are	any	terms	prescribed	by	the	Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
time	to	time	in	order	to	control	an	epidemic	situation	declared	throughout	Sri	Lanka	or	in	any	part	
of	the	country	or	relevant	to	the	authority	area	or	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	has	been	declared	
applicable	under	the	regulations	made	under	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance,	
the	premises	shall	be	maintained	subject	to	all	such	terms.	
   
	 (6)	 Room	for	accommodation,	all	spaces	for	accommodators	use,	latrines	and	bathrooms	shall	be	
disinfected	before	being	used	by	another	person	after	being	used	by	one	person	and	latrines	and	
bathrooms	shall	be	disinfected	daily	even	while	customers	are	present.	
   
	 (7)	 Whenever	there	enough	facts	to	suspect	that	there	is	a	risk	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	
the	body	temperature	of	everyone	who	comes	to	stay	on	the	premises	shall	be	measured	before	
entering	the	premises	to	check	whether	the	body	temperature	is	within	the	specific	range	by	
a	person	who	is	specifically	assigned	for	that	purpose	and	everyone's	hands	and	feet	shall	be	
cleaned with disinfectants before entering the premises. 
   
	 (8)	 All	reusable	items	such	as	pillowcases,	bed	sheets,	blankets,	towels	etc.,	which	kept	in	each	
room	for	the	use	of	the	customers	shall	not	be	used	for	another	customer	without	washing	and	
cleaning. 
Conditions
applicable to
 a license

<!-- page 370 -->

370A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (9)	 By	no	means	shall	not	allow	more	than	one	adult	in	a	single	room,	more	than	two	adults	in	a	
double	room,	more	than	three	adults	in	a	triple	room,	or	exceeding	the	maximum	number	of	
persons	when	four	square	meters	per	person	is	considered	as	the	minimum	space	when	the	room	
can	be	accommodated	by	a	group,	and	those	over	the	age	of	five	years	shall	be	considered	as	
adults	for	the	purpose	in	this	subsection.	
   
	 (10)	Beds	inside	a	room	shall	be	maintained	taking	into	account	the	extent	specified	in	subsection	(9)	
above.	
   
	 (11)	Under	 no	circumstances	shall	anyone	be	permitted	to	lodge	with	a	child	except	by	a	parent	or	
legal	guardian.	
   
	 (12)	No	person	shall	be	allowed	to	sleep	in	an	open	area	except	the	rooms	on	the	premises.	
   
	 (13)	No	 person	shall	be	allowed	to	stay	on	the	premises	if	they	do	not	agree	to	verify	their	identity	
or	are	unable	to	verify	their	identity,	and	the	information	regarding	all	persons	staying	shall	be	a	
statement	under	their	signature.	
   
	 (14)	When	it	is	not	an	air-conditioned	room,	all	rooms	shall	be	well	ventilated	and	allowed	to	be	used	
after	leaving	the	doors	and	windows	open	for	some	time.	
   
	 (15)	When	a	regulation	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	comes	into	force	
in	respect	of	any	epidemic	situation	in	the	authority	area,	facilities	shall	be	provided	the	use	the	
rooms	in	accordance	with	all	the	provisions	of	that	regulation.	
   
	 (16)	If	there	are	any	terms	prescribed	by	the	Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
time	to	time	in	order	to	control	an	epidemic	situation	declared	throughout	Sri	Lanka	or	in	any	part	
of	the	country	or	relevant	to	the	authority	area	or	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	has	been	declared	
applicable	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	or	regulations	made	under	
it,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	subject	to	all	such	terms.	
   
	 (17)	All	 persons	employed	on	the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	all	guidelines	made	by	
the	Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	in	any	case	where	a	disease	is	
declared	applicable	under	the	orders	made	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Disease	
Ordinance. 
   
	 (18)	Whenever	 there	is	a	suspicion	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	relating	to	all	persons	who	
come	to	the	premises	expecting	services,	services	shall	not	be	provided	unless	they	visit	the	
premises	in	accordance	with	the	relevant	health	guidelines	issued.	
   
	 (19)	When	there	is	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area	or	risk	of	an	epidemic,	the	health	safety	instructions	
prescribed	by	the	Director	General	of	Health	Services	or	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	the	
Chairman	as	per	their	instructions	shall	be	properly	implemented	in	the	premises	in	order	to	
protect	from	it	and	the	license	holder	shall	be	satisfied	that	it	is	being	so.	
   
	 (20)	All	drains	in	the	premises	shall	be	easily	drained	and	the	effluent	and	sewage	shall	be	directed	to	

<!-- page 371 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
371A
the	septic	tank,	soakage	pit	or	to	the	central	treatment	unit	according	to	the	approved	procedures	
and	the	necessary	action	shall	be	taken	to	prevent	contamination.	
   
	 (21)	All	latrines	and	hand	washing	places	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	frequently	with	disinfectant	
and	appropriate	method	shall	be	maintained	to	ensure	that	all	of	them	are	being	so.	
   
	 (22)	The	interior	floor	of	the	premises	shall	be	arranged	in	such	a	way	that	it	does	not	slip	easily,	and	if	
it	is	somewhat	easier	to	do	so	during	the	cleaning	process	boards	mentioning	on	that	regard	shall	
be	placed	in	such	a	place	visible	to	the	customers.	
   
	 (23)	Drains	in	the	premises	shall	be	made	as	not	to	retain	water	and	shall	be	cleaned	with	disinfectants	
twice daily. 
   
	 (24)	No	drain	or	sewage	pipe	in	the	premises	shall	be	directed	in	any	way	to	a	public	drain	of	the	road	
or	outside	area.	
   
	 (25)	The	premises	shall	be	maintained	in	such	a	way	that	there	is	no	external	odor	due	to	the	discharge	
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
	 (26)	Adequate	 facilities	shall	be	in	place	to	regulate	the	temperature	required	for	cooking	and	
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
	 (27)	All	equipment	and	utensils	used	for	food	preparation	shall	be	maintained	in	accordance	with	the	
following	requirements.	
   
	 	 (A)		 All	equipment	and	utensils	used	in	food	preparation	shall	be	made	of	a	non-absorbent	material	
that	does	not	emit	any	toxins,	tastes	or	odors	and	shall	be	made	of	stainless	material.
	 	 (B)	 All	equipment	and	utensils	shall	be	of	such	a	nature	as	to	be	easily	cleaned.
	 	 (C)	 Containers	used	for	waste	disposal	shall	be	made	of	metal	or	non-leaking	materials	and	shall	
have	lids.
	 	 (D)	 All	equipment	and	utensil	maintained	shall	be	of	a	suitable	condition	to	be	used.	
   
	 (28)	Containers	used	for	serving	food	shall	be	such	that	they	can	be	served	in	a	way	that	does	not	harm	
the taste of the food. 
   
	 (29)	Premises	 shall	have	separate	refrigeration	facilities	to	store	things	used	for	cooking	food	and	
cooked food or similar. 
   
	 (30)	Fruits	 and	 vegetables	 used	 in	 food	 preparation	 shall	 be	 thoroughly	 washed,	 cleaned	 and	
used.	
   
	 (31)	Water	 used	 in	 the	 premises	 shall	 be	 kept	 in	 non-hazardous	 containers	 free	 from	
contamination. 

<!-- page 372 -->

372A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (32)	The	ice	used	in	the	premises	shall	be	made	from	drinking	water.	
   
	 (33)	Water	pipes	in	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	so	that	they	can	be	distinguished	from	any	other	
pipeline. 
   
	 (34)	A	specific	internal	arrangement	shall	be	in	place	to	ensure	that	every	food	item	cooked	on	the	
premises	is	delivered	to	customers	without	hazard,	and	that	specifically	assigned	persons	shall	be	
employed	to	regulate	it.	
   
	 (35)	Meat	and	fish	brought	in	for	food	shall	be	stored	in	a	separate	refrigerator	on	the	premises	and	shall	
always	be	kept	at	a	temperature	of	two	degrees	Celsius	until	used	without	contamination.	
   
	 (36)	All	persons	involved	in	serving,	handling	or	assembling	food	on	the	premises;
	 	 (A)	Shall	not	touch	or	contact	food	with	their	open	hands	or	fingers	
	 	 (B)	Utensils	and	gloves	used	for	handling	food	shall	be	a	favorable		use	for	food.	
	 	 (C)	 A	clean	towel	shall	be	used	to	wipe	hands.
	 	 (D)	 The	bottom	of	a	used	plate,	cup	or	other	container	shall	always	be	kept	out	of	contact	with	any	
food. 
	 	 (E)	 All	utensils	used	for	food	serving	shall	be	kept	clean	and	in	separate	containers.
	 	 (F)	 Employees	shall	work	to	handle,	assemble	and	serve	food	in	such	a	way	that	their	activity,	
usage	does	not	cause	food	contamination	or	microbial	proliferation	in	any	way.	
   
	 (37)	When	 the	Chairman	has	declared	a	disease	condition	applicable	under	the	Quarantine	and	
Prevention	of	Disease	Ordinance	in	the	authority	area	or	under	the	orders	made	under	it	or	has	
declared	that	there	is	a	risk	of	any	epidemic	disease	in	the	authority	area	as	per	the	instructions	of	
the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	all	persons	involved	in	preparing,	handling,	serving,	or	assembling	
food	on	the	premises	shall	maintain	the	premises	in	accordance	with	the	directives	made	by	the	
Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	by	the	Chairman	as	per	their	instructions	
in	addition	to	any	other	provisions	of	this	By-Law.	
   
	 (38)	Tables	 for	serving	and	consuming	food	on	the	premises	shall	be	in	very	clean	condition	and	
disinfected	after	each	serve	and	consumption	and	the	towels	used	for	cleaning	shall	be	of	clean	
condition. 
   
	 (39)	Surfaces	 that	are	touched	by	the	customers	on	the	premises	shall	be	cleaned	frequently	with	
disinfectants. 
   
	 (40)	Adequate	 facilities	for	hand	washing	and	hand	drying	with	disinfectant	shall	be	provided	in	the	
processing	area	of	the	premises	and	in	the	food	consumption	areas	of	the	premises	and	adequate	
lighting shall be maintained in the premises. 

<!-- page 373 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
373A
 (41)	Prior	to	disposal	of	waste	collected	in	the	premises,	they	shall	be	maintained	in	such	a	way	that	
they	do	not	affect	the	things	used	on	the	premises	in	any	way	and	does	not	cause	contamination	
of food. 
   
	 (42)	Pets	such	as	dogs	and	cats	shall	not	be	kept	on	the	premises	in	any	way.	
   
	 (43)	Employees	 working	on	the	premises	shall	have	undergone	a	training	in	food	hygiene	and	shall	
be	subjected	to	medical	checkups	within	a	period	prescribed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	to	
check	that	they	are	in	proper	health	condition.	Relevant	records	shall	also	be	maintained	so	that	
they	can	be	inspected	at	any	time	within	the	premises.	Also	the	health	check-ups	on	them	shall	be	
both clinical and epidemiological.
 
	 (44)	A	health	monitoring	system	shall	be	set	up	for	the	employees	working	on	the	premises	and	a	
process	shall	be	put	in	place	to	get	the	health	advice	they	need.	
   
	 (45)	The	waste	generated	on	the	premises	shall	be	disposed	in	accordance	with	the	waste	management	
program	implemented	by	the	Council	and	in	accordance	with	the	written	rules	applicable	to	
it. 
   
	 (46)	If	the	waste	generated	on	the	premises	is	managed	by	the	license	holder	himself,	the	Public	Health	
Inspector	in	charge	of	the	relevant	area	shall	be	informed	and	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	
instructions	given	by	him.	
   
	 (47)	Adequate	first	aid	facilities	shall	be	provided	on	the	premises.	
	 (48)	When	 instructions	have	been	given	to	use	gloves	or	masks	in	the	community	in	the	event	of	an	
epidemic,	if	any	person	entering	the	premises	disposes	the	mask	or	gloves	they	are	wearing	on	the	
premises,	the	disposable	mask	or	gloves	shall	be	disposed	to	closed	containers	that	are	kept	on	the	
premises	specifically	for	that	purpose,	and	such	waste	shall	be	disposed	in	accordance	with	the	
waste	management	program	and	instructions	implemented	by	the	Council	without	mixing	with	
other wastes. 
   
	 (49)	Every	person	who	handle	food	on	the	premises	shall	maintain	maximum	hygiene	during	handling	of	
food	and	shall	always	wear	hats,	gloves,	masks,	shoes	and	appropriate	hygienic	clothing.	
   
	 (50)	A	person	suffering	from	any	infectious	disease	or	suspected	to	be	infected	with	such	a	disease	or	a	
vector	of	such	a	disease	or	a	person	infected	with	wounds,	skin	infections	or	any	other	infectious	
disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   
	 (51)	Every	 person	involved	in	handling	of	food	on	the	event	rooms	of	the	premises	shall	not	engage	
in	activities	such	as	smoking,	spitting,	coughing,	sneezing,	or	touching	the	nose,	which	can	cause	
food contamination. 
   
	 (52)	If	 there	are	enough	facts	to	think	that	any	person	is	suffering	from	an	infectious	disease	or	an	
epidemic	he	shall	not	be	entered	to	the	festive	occasions	on	the	premises.	
   
	 (53)	In	 the	event	of	any	person	visits	the	event	rooms	of	the	premises	for	consumption	of	food	or	

<!-- page 374 -->

374A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
employee	serving	on	the	premises	contracted	an	infectious,	transmittable	or	skin	disease,	the	
license	holder	shall	notify	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	and	upon	such	notification,	all	persons	on	
the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	quarantine	instructions	given	by	the	Medical	Officer	
of	Health	or	a	Public	Health	Inspector	authorized	by	him.	
   
	 (54)	When	the	event	rooms	of	the	premises	are	subjected	to	the	quarantine	process,	the	premises	shall	
not	be	used	for	any	festive	occasions	until	a	certificate	has	been	issued	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	
Health	or	the	Public	Health	Inspector	stating	that	the	quarantine	period	is	over	and	the	premises	
have	been	completely	disinfected.	
   
	 (55)	Health	care	measures	that	are	implemented	on	the	event	rooms	of	the	premises	shall	be	prominently	
displayed	on	the	premises	in	such	a	way	that	everyone	who	handles	and	consumes	food	in	the	
premises	can	learn	about	the	relevant	instructions	and	shall	acted	according	to	them.	
   
	 (56)	The	 license	holder	shall	have	provided	all	information	regarding	the	employees	working	on	the	
premises	to	the	Chairman.	
   
12.		Taking	into	account	the	possible	causes	of	the	spread	of	an	epidemic	in	the	area,	when	the	Chairman	has	
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of	the	premises	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	the	license	holder	shall	enter	into	a	
statement	of	agreement	with	the	Chairman,	and	the	Chairman	shall	send	a	copy	of	it	to	the	Medical	
Officer	of	Health.	
   
13.		In	 the	event	of	an	order	is	in	effect	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	
relating	to	any	epidemic	situation	pertaining	to	the	authority	area,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	in	
accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
14.		It	is	lawful	for	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	any	other	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	to	enter	
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the 
provisions	of	this	By-Law	and	obtain	the	required	samples.	
   
15.	(1)	 In	the	event	that	a	premises	licensed	under	this	By-Law	violates	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	
or	acts	against	it,	the	Chairman	shall	submit	a	notice	to	the	license	holder	informing	a	specific	
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-Law.   
 
	 (2)	 After	submission	of	a	notice	under	this	Section	to	the	license	holder,	the	Chairman	may	grant	
an	additional	period	of	time	upon	a	reasonable	request	to	further	extend	the	time	period	to	be	
in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	the	relevant	notice.	The	period	granted	so	shall	be	subject	to	a	
maximum	period	of	fourteen	days	in	addition	to	the	period	specified	in	the	first	notice.	
   
16.		The	Chairman	shall	cancel	the	relevant	license	in	the	event	that	the	license	holder	neglect	being	
complied	with	the	notice	within	the	period	of	time	or	additional	period	given	under	Section	15	
above.	
   
17.		It	is	an	offense	to	maintain	a	premises	without	a	license	to	be	obtained	under	this	By-Law	or	in	
violation	of	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	and	after	being	convicted	by	a	Magistrate	Court	for	that	
Power to enter 
the premises.
Cancellation	of	
the license.

<!-- page 375 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
375A
Penalty.
Definitions.
Inconsistency
between	texts.
offense,	shall	be	subject	to	a	penalty	under	Sub-Section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	No.	15	
of	1987.	Further,	after	being	found	guilty	of	such	an	offense,	if	the	violation	continues	even	after	
the	notice	has	been	given	by	the	Chairman	or	an	officer	authorized	by	him,	he	shall	be	subject	to	an	
additional	penalty	referred	to	in	the	aforesaid	Sub-Section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	No.	15	
of	1987	for	each	day	of	such	violation.	 	 	 	
   
18.		 Unless	other	meaning	is	required	with	regard	to	text,	in	this	By-law;
	 “Council”	means	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 “Chairman”	means	the	person	who	hold	the	office	of	the	Chairman	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	
at	that	time	or	the	person	who	performs	the	duties	of	that	position,
	 “Medical	Officer	of	Health”	means	the	person	who	holds	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
Division	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 “Public	Health	Inspector”	means	a	person	who	holds	the	office	of	Public	Health	Inspector	attached	to	
the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	relevant	to	the	authority	area	
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
	 “License	holder”	means	an	institution,	person	or	an	individual	who	has	obtained	a	license	under	this	
By-Law,
	 “Authorized	Officer”	means	the	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	at	that	
time,
	 "Contamination"	means	the	entry	or	occurrence	of	contamination	substance	in	a	food,	
	 "Disinfectants"	means	reducing	the	amount	of	microorganisms	in	the	environment	by	chemicals	or	
physical	means	to	a	state	that	do	not	reduce	the	safety	or	suitability	of	the	food,
	 "Food	hygiene"	means	all	the	conditions,	steps	and	practices	to	ensure	the	safety	and	suitability	of	food	
at all stages in the food chain,
	 "Hazards"	means	a	biological,	chemical,	or	condition	that	is	likely	to	cause	adverse	health	effects,
	 "Food	safety"	means	the	responsibility	not	cause	any	harm	to	the	customer	during	preparing,	processing,	
selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
		 "Reasonable	time"	means	any	time	engaged	in	a	licensed	activity	or	related	work,	
	 "Basic	Law"	means	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	No.	15	of	1987.	
   
19.		If	there	is	any	inconsistency	between	the	Sinhala,	Tamil	and	English	texts	of	this	By-Law,	the	Sinhala	
text	shall	prevail.		

<!-- page 376 -->

376A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 				Application	Number:
Fill up the “A” section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Office /
 Wethara Sub Office of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head	Office	/	Wethara	Sub	Office
Application	for	a	Trade	License	for	the	Year	20	..........
 "A"
1.	Name	of	trader:	......................................................................................................................
2.	Name	and	address	of	the	place	of	business:	...............................................	......................................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
3.	Personal	address	of	the	trader:	...............................................................................................
4.	National	Identity	Card	Number	of	the	trader:	...........................................	.............................
5.	Telephone	Number:	................................................................................................	..........................
6.	Name	and	address	of	the	owner	of	the	building	where	the	business	is	located	:	.............................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
7.	Grama	Niladhari	Division	Number	and	Name:	.........................................	........................................
8.	Assessment	Number	and	Street	of	the	business	place	:	....................................................................
9.	Commencement	date	of	the	Business	:	.............................................................................................
10.	Nature	of	the	business	for	which	the	license	is	applied	for:	..........................................................
It	is	requested	to	grand	the	license	to	carry	on	the	above	said	business	for	the	year	20	............	
Date:	.....................		 	 	 	 	 	 	 ...............................
																																																																																																													 									Signature	of	the	applicant.
For official use
"B"	Revenue	Inspector	Report
1.		Extent	of	the	business	premises:	...................................................................................................
2.	 Number	of	employees	in	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	.....................................
3.		Annual	value	of	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	....................................................
4.		Nature	of	the	building:	.............................................	..........................................................................
5.		Nature	of	the	Business	(As	per	Gazette):	.........................	Permanent	/	Temporary	..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
    
Date:	...................																																																															 	 											.......................................
																																																																																																																		 	 			Revenue	Inspector.

<!-- page 377 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
377A
Medical Officer of Health: - ............................................. ....
I	refer	for	your	recommendations.
                                                                                                               ...................................... 
																																																																																													Chief	Management	Service	Officer	(Revenue).
Medical Officer of Health: .............................................
	 I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	granting	license	for	this	business.	Please	inform	the	Chairman	of	
Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	to	instruct	the	applicant	to	fulfill	the	following	recommendations.
1. ..............................................................................................................................................................
2. ..............................................................................................................................................................
3. ..............................................................................................................................................................
4.	..............................................................................................................................................................
5.	..............................................................................................................................................................
6. ..............................................................................................................................................................
7.	..............................................................................................................................................................
8.	..............................................................................................................................................................
9.	..............................................................................................................................................................
10.	............................................................................................................................................................
Date	:-	.......................
                                                                                                              ...................................
																																																																																																									 	 	Public	Health	Inspector.
Recommendation of the Medical Officer of Health
	 	 As	per	the	above	said	report	of	Public	Health	Inspector	on	the	above	industry	/	business,	I	recommend/	
do	not	recommend	to	issue	the	license	for	the	year	20	............
                                                                                                                             ..................................
																																																																																																										 							Medical	Officer	of	Health.
Secretary
I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	the	license.	The	following	conditions	must	be	fulfilled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date	:	..........................		 	 	 	 	 	 											...................................
																																																																																																									 									Chief	Revenue	Inspector.

<!-- page 378 -->

378A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
Chairman
I	recommend	/	I	do	not	recommend	issuing	the	above	license	and	forward.
                                                                                                     
Date	:	...............................			 	 	 	 																																				...........................
                                                                                                                            Secretary.
Instructions of the Chairman
	 	 On	 the	recommendation	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	I	approve	/	do	not	approve	the	issuance	
of	the	license	for	.................................................................................	being	carried	out	at..............
...................................................................,	for	the	year	of	20……..
                                                                                                                     .............................
	Date:	................			 	 	 	 	 	 																						Chairman,
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Note of Management Service Officer
               BY-LAW REGARDING VEGITABLES AND FRUITS SELLING PALCES 
   
1.	 	This	By-law	is	enacted	to	regulate,	supervise,	inspect	and	control	the	vegetables	and	fruits	selling	
places	in	the	authority	area	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha.	
   
2.	 	This	By-law	is	cited	as	the	By-law	Regarding	Vegetables	and	Fruits	Selling	Places	in	the	Homagama	
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
3.	 	The	Pradeshiya	Sabha	is	vested	with	powers	to	formulate	these	By-Laws	by	virtue	of	Section	122	of	
Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.15	of	1987	read	with	the	Sub-Section	126(ix)	of	the	said	Act.	
   
4.	 	No	person	within	the	jurisdiction	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	
authority	area)	shall	maintain	a	vegetables	and	fruits	selling	center	or	a	storage	center	for	such	sale	
(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	premises)	except	under	a	license	obtained	from	the	Chairman	under	this	
By-Law. 
   
5.	 	All	persons	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	apply	for	it	under	an	application	prepared	
in	accordance	with	the	Schedule	published	in	this	By-Law.	
	License	Fee	Rs.	 	 :	....................................
	Receipt	No.	&	Date	 :	....................................
	License	No.	&	Date	 :	HO/PS/TL/	.................              .....................................
Management	Services	Officer.	(Revenue)
Short title.
Applying for 
a License.

<!-- page 379 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
379A
6.	 	 Submission	of	an	application	under	the	above	Section	can	be	made	by	fulfilling	the	requirements	
and	submitting	an	application	to	the	Chairman	by	registered	post,	handing	over	in	hand	or	by	
e-mail	to	the	extent	permitted	by	the	Council.	
   
7.	 	 Any	person	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	not	be	issued	a	license	by	the	Chairman	
unless	the	following	conditions	are	met	herein.	
   
	 (1)	 Permanent	constructions	related	to	the	premises	shall	be	constructions	in	accordance	with	the	
provisions	mentioned	under	the	Urban	Development	Authority	Act	or	the	Housing	and	Urban	
Development	Ordinance.	
   
	 (2)	 The	material	used	for	construction	shall	be	made	of	materials	that	do	not	retain	living	organisms,	
and	permanent	constructions	shall	be	made	on	the	premises	to	prevent	the	entry	and	retention	of	
pests	and	fumes.	
   
	 (3)	 The	premises	shall	be	designed	to	be	easily	cleaned	and	in	a	way	so	that	water	does	not	
retain. 
   
	 (4)	 The	interior	of	the	premises	shall	be	designed	so	that	the	nature	of	the	fruits	and	vegetables	can	
be inspected always. 
   
	 (5)	 The	building,	walls	of	the	premises	shall	be	made	of	washable	materials	with	waterproofing	so	as	
not to absorb water. 
   
	 (6)	 Every	construction	on	the	premises	shall	be	free	of	holes	cause	for	the	retention	of	insects.	
   
	 (7)	 Surfaces	where	vegetables	and	fruits	are	stored	and	kept	shall	be	easily	disinfected	and	made	of	
non-absorbent materials. 
   
	 (8)	 Surfaces	where	vegetables	and	fruits	are	stored	and	kept	shall	be	inactive	to	disinfectants	and	
cleaning agents.  
   
	 (9)	 If	vegetables	or	fruits	are	stored	or	stored	and	kept	on	the	premises;	refrigeration	facilities	shall	
be	in	place	to	maintain	the	specified	temperature.	
   
	 (10)	When	keeping	vegetables	and	fruits	for	sale,	refrigeration	facilities	shall	be	available	to	maintain	
it	at	low	temperatures.	
   
	 (11)	There	shall	be	a	ceiling	or	concrete	surface	above	the	place	where	vegetables	and	fruits	are	stored	
or kept. 
   
	 (12)	The	 premises	shall	be	air	conditioned	or	windows	and	other	openings	shall	be	set	so	that	air	can	
be	flow	well.	
   
	 (13)	The	interior	parts	of	the	premises	shall	be	constructed	to	be	easily	cleaned.	
   
Conditions	for	
a license.

<!-- page 380 -->

380A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (14)	The	 water	required	for	the	premises	shall	be	supplied	from	within	or	outside	the	premises	and	
shall	be	equipped	with	storage	facilities	for	continuous	water	supply.	
   
	 (15)	The	premises	shall	have	a	separate	place	for	washing	vegetables	and	fruits	and	shall	be	constructed	
so that water does not retain in the premises.
 
	 (16)	Internal	 drains	of	the	premises	shall	be	directed	to	a	soakage	pit	or	a	septic	tank	and	if	there	is	
a	source	of	water	in	the	premises	of	the	respective	soakage	pit	or	septic	tank,	it	shall	be	set	at	a	
distance	of	at	least	15.25	meters	away.	
   
	 (17)	For	the	employees	on	the	premises;	
	 	 (i)			 If	staying	as	residents,	there	shall	be	rooms	with	adequate	sanitary	facilities	for	accommodation.	
	 	 (ii)		Latrine	facilities	shall	be	provided	as	appropriate.	
   
	 (18)	Platforms	for	keeping	or	storing	vegetables	and	fruits	in	the	premises	shall	be	set	at	a	height	of	at	
least	28	cm	above	the	ground.	
   
8.	 	 Within	fourteen	days	of	receipt	of	the	application	for	a	license	to	be	issued	under	this	By-Law,	the	
Chairman;	
   
	 (1)	 Shall	issue	a	license	pertaining	to	the	premises	to	the	applicant	when	the	conditions	under	Section	
7	are	complied	with.	
   
	 (2)	 Shall	reject	the	relevant	application	with	reasons	if	the	conditions	under	Section	7	are	not	complied	
with. 
   
9.	 (1)	 The	fees	to	be	charged	for	a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	shall	be	the	fees	to	be	decided	and	
declared	by	the	Council	subject	to	the	provisions	of	the	Basic	Law.	
   
	 (2)	 It	shall	be	lawful	for	the	Council	to	decide	and	charge	an	inspection	fee	for	site	inspections	related	
to	the	issuance	of	a	license.		
   
10.		 If	 a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	is	not	previously	cancelled	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-Law,	it	shall	be	valid	until	December	thirty	first	of	the	year	in	which	the	license	
applies. 
   
11.		 All	 persons	receives	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	following	
conditions herein. 
   
	 (1)	 If	there	are	any	terms	prescribed	by	the	Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
time	to	time	in	order	to	control	an	epidemic	situation	declared	throughout	Sri	Lanka	or	in	any	part	
of	the	country	or	relevant	to	the	authority	area	or	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	has	been	declared	
applicable	under	the	regulations	made	under	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance,	
the	premises	shall	be	maintained	subject	to	all	such	terms.	
Issuing	a	license.
Fees	for	a	license.
Inspection fees.
Validity period.
Conditions
applicable to
a license.

<!-- page 381 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
381A
	 (2)	 All	persons	employed	on	the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	all	terms	made	by	the	Chairman	
on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	is	declared	applicable	
under	the	regulations	made	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Disease	Ordinance.	
   
	 (3)	 Whenever	there	is	a	suspicion	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	relating	to	all	persons	who	
come	to	the	premises	expecting	services,	shall	not	related	to	the	transactions	unless	they	visit	the	
premises	in	accordance	with	the	relevant	health	guidelines	issued.	
   
	 (4)	 When	there	is	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area	or	risk	of	an	epidemic,	the	health	safety	instructions	
prescribed	by	the	Director	General	of	Health	Services	or	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	the	
Chairman	as	per	their	instructions	shall	be	properly	implemented	in	the	premises	in	order	to	
protect	from	it	and	the	license	holder	shall	be	satisfied	that	it	is	being	so.	
   
	 (5)	 All	drains	in	the	premises	shall	be	easily	drained	and	the	effluent	and	sewage	shall	be	directed	to	
the	septic	tank,	soakage	pit	or	to	the	central	treatment	unit	according	to	the	approved	procedures	
and	the	necessary	action	shall	be	taken	to	prevent	contamination.	
	 (6)	 No	drain	or	sewage	pipe	in	the	premises	shall	be	directed	in	any	way	to	a	public	drain	of	the	road	
or	outside	area.	
   
	 (7)	 The	premises	shall	be	maintained	in	such	a	way	that	there	is	no	external	odor	due	to	the	discharge	
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
	 (8)	 Light	bulbs	fixed	above	the	vegetables	or	fruits	for	sale	or	stored	shall	be	of	a	safe	condition	and	
all	of	them	shall	be	covered.	
   
	 (9)	 Disposal	of	waste	collected	in	the	premises	shall	be	done	in	accordance	with	the	waste	management	
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha and in accordance with the applicable written 
laws in this regard. 
   
	 (10)	If	 the	waste	collected	at	the	premises	is	managed	by	the	license	holder	himself,	it	shall	be	in	
accordance	with	a	procedure	prescribed	by	the	Public	Health	Inspector	or	the	Medical	Officer	of	
Health. 
   
	 (11)	When	 using	weighing	equipment	for	the	sale	of	vegetables	and	fruits	in	the	premises,	it	shall	be	
done in accordance with the prescribed standards. 
   
	 (12)	If	 prepare	fruits	to	make	it	easier	to	eat	or	to	prepare	fruit	juices	on	the	premises,	everyone	who	
does	so	shall	not	engage	in	any	activity	such	as	fruit	preparation	or	fruit	juice	preparation	without	
the	use	of	gloves	and	hats.		
   
	 (13)	When	 preparing	fruit	for	consumption,	shall	always	use	drinking	water	and	ice	made	from	that	
water. 
   
	 (14)	Preparation	 of	fruits	for	consumption	shall	not	be	done	in	advance	except	in	the	presence	of	
consumers.	

<!-- page 382 -->

382A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (15)	Vegetables	and	fruits	shall	be	kept	for	sale	so	that	they	do	not	mix	with	rotten	vegetables	and	
fruits.	
   
	 (16)	The	 premises	shall	be	kept	in	a	clean	condition	at	all	times	and	no	activities	shall	be	carried	out	
on	the	premises	in	such	a	manner	as	to	cause	any	contamination	of	vegetables	or	fruits	in	the	
premises for any reason. 
   
	 (17)	When	 the	Chairman	has	declared	a	disease	condition	applicable	under	the	Quarantine	and	
Prevention	of	Disease	Ordinance	in	the	authority	area	or	under	the	orders	made	under	it	or	has	
declared	that	there	is	a	risk	of	any	epidemic	disease	in	the	authority	area	as	per	the	instructions	
of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	all	persons	working	on	the	premises	shall	maintain	the	premises	
in	accordance	with	the	directives	made	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	a	Public	Health	
Inspector	or	by	the	Chairman	as	per	their	instructions	in	addition	to	any	other	provisions	of	this	
By-law. 
   
	 (18)	Prior	 to	disposal	of	waste	collected	in	the	premises,	they	shall	be	maintained	in	such	a	way	that	
they	do	not	affect	the	things	used	on	the	premises	in	any	way	and	does	not	cause	contamination	
of	vegetables	and	fruits.	
   
	 (19)	Pets	such	as	dogs	and	cats	shall	not	be	raised	on	the	premises	in	any	way.	
   
	 (20)	A	health	monitoring	system	shall	be	set	up	for	the	employees	working	on	the	premises	and	a	
process	shall	be	put	in	place	to	get	the	health	advice	they	need.	
   
	 (21)	Those	 who	 work	 as	 cashiers	 on	 the	 premises	 shall	 clean	 their	 hands	 frequently	 using	
disinfectants. 
   
	 (22)	When	 instructions	have	been	given	to	use	gloves	or	masks	in	the	community	in	the	event	of	an	
epidemic,	if	any	person	entering	the	premises	disposes	the	mask	or	gloves	they	are	wearing	on	the	
premises,	the	disposable	mask	or	gloves	shall	be	disposed	to	closed	containers	that	are	kept	on	the	
premises	specifically	for	that	purpose,	and	such	waste	shall	be	disposed	in	accordance	with	the	
waste	management	program	and	instructions	implemented	by	the	Council	without	mixing	with	
other wastes. 
   
	 (23)	A	person	suffering	from	any	infectious	disease	or	suspected	to	be	infected	with	such	a	disease	or	a	
vector	of	such	a	disease	or	a	person	infected	with	wounds,	skin	infections	or	any	other	infectious	
disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   
	 (24)	If	 there	are	enough	facts	to	think	that	any	person	is	suffering	from	an	infectious	disease	or	an	
epidemic,	he	shall	not	be	allowed	to	the	premises	in	any	event.	
   
	 (25)	Employee	 serving	on	the	premises	contracted	an	infectious,	transmittable	or	skin	disease,	the	
license	holder	shall	notify	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	and	upon	such	notification,	all	persons	on	
the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	quarantine	instructions	given	by	the	Medical	Officer	
of	Health	or	a	Public	Health	Inspector	authorized	by	him.
 

<!-- page 383 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
383A
Penalty.
Definitions.
On-site inspection
and obtaining 
samples.
Cancellation	of	
the license.
12.		It	is	lawful	for	a	Public	Health	Inspector	or	any	other	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	to	enter	the	
premises	at	any	reasonable	time	to	inspect	the	premises	whether	it	is	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	
of	this	By-Law	and	obtain	the	required	samples.	
   
13.		Taking	into	account	the	possible	causes	of	the	spread	of	an	epidemic	in	the	area,	when	the	Chairman	has	
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of	the	premises	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	the	license	holder	shall	enter	into	a	
statement	of	agreement	with	the	Chairman,	and	the	Chairman	shall	send	a	copy	of	it	to	the	Medical	
Officer	of	Health.	
   
14.	(1)	 In	the	event	that	a	premises	licensed	under	this	By-Law	violates	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	
or	acts	against	it,	the	Chairman	shall	submit	a	notice	to	the	license	holder	informing	a	specific	
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-Law.   
 
	 (2)	 After	submission	of	a	notice	under	this	Section	to	the	license	holder,	the	Chairman	may	grant	
an	additional	period	of	time	upon	a	reasonable	request	to	further	extend	the	time	period	to	be	
in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	the	relevant	notice.	The	period	granted	so	shall	be	subject	to	a	
maximum	period	of	fourteen	days	in	addition	to	the	period	specified	in	the	first	notice.	
   
15.		 The	Chairman	shall	cancel	the	relevant	license	in	the	event	that	the	license	holder	neglect	being	
complied	with	the	notice	within	the	period	of	time	or	additional	period	given	under	Section	14	
above.	
   
16.		 It	is	an	offense	to	maintain	a	premises	without	a	license	to	be	obtained	under	this	By-Law	or	in	
violation	of	the	provisions	of	this	By-Law	and	after	being	convicted	by	a	Magistrate	Court	for	that	
offense,	shall	be	subject	to	a	penalty	under	Sub-Section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	No.	15	
of	1987.	Further,	after	being	found	guilty	of	such	an	offense,	if	the	violation	continues	even	after	
the	notice	has	been	given	by	the	Chairman	or	an	officer	authorized	by	him,	he	shall	be	subject	to	an	
additional	penalty	referred	to	in	the	aforesaid	Sub-Section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	No.	15	
of	1987	for	each	day	of	such	violation.	
   
17.		 Unless	other	meaning	is	required	with	regard	to	text,	in	this	By-law,
	 “Council”	means	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 “Chairman”	means	the	person	who	hold	the	office	of	the	Chairman	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	
at	that	time	or	the	person	who	performs	the	duties	of	that	position,
	 “Medical	Officer	of	Health”	means	the	person	who	holds	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
Division	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 “Public	Health	Inspector”	means	a	person	who	holds	the	office	of	Public	Health	Inspector	attached	to	
the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	relevant	to	the	authority	area	
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
	 “License	holder”	means	an	institution,	person	or	an	individual	who	has	obtained	a	license	under	this	
By-Law,

<!-- page 384 -->

384A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 “Authorized	Officer”	means	the	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	at	that	
time,
	 "Contamination"	means	the	entry	or	occurrence	of	contamination	substance	in	a	food,	
	 "Disinfectants"	means	reducing	the	amount	of	microorganisms	in	the	environment	by	chemicals	or	
physical	means	to	a	state	that	do	not	reduce	the	safety	or	suitability	of	the	food,
	 "Reasonable	time"	means	any	time	engaged	in	a	licensed	activity	or	related	work,	
	 "Basic	Law"	means	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	of	1987.	
   
18.		If	there	is	any	inconsistency	between	the	Sinhala,	Tamil	and	English	texts	of	this	By-Law,	the	Sinhala	
text	shall	prevail.
  
	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 Application	Number:
Fill up the “A” section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Office / 
Wethara Sub Office of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head	Office	/	Wethara	Sub	Office
Application	for	a	Trade	License	for	the	Year	20	..........
 "A"
1.	Name	of	trader:	......................................................................................................................
2.	Name	and	address	of	the	place	of	business:	...............................................	......................................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
3.	Personal	address	of	the	trader:	...............................................................................................
4.	National	Identity	Card	Number	of	the	trader:	...........................................	.............................
5.	Telephone	Number:	................................................................................................	..........................
6.	Name	and	address	of	the	owner	of	the	building	where	the	business	is	located	:	.............................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
7.	Grama	Niladhari	Division	Number	and	Name:	.........................................	........................................
8.	Assessment	Number	and	Street	of	the	business	place	:	....................................................................
9.	Commencement	date	of	the	Business	:	.............................................................................................
10.	Nature	of	the	business	for	which	the	license	is	applied	for:	..........................................................
It	is	requested	to	grand	the	license	to	carry	on	the	above	said	business	for	the	year	20	............	
Date:	.....................		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	...............................,
																																																																																																													 									Signature	of	the	applicant.
Inconsistency
between	texts.

<!-- page 385 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
385A
For official use
"B"	Revenue	Inspector	Report
1.		Extent	of	the	business	premises:	...................................................................................................
2.	 Number	of	employees	in	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	.....................................
3.		Annual	value	of	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	....................................................
4.		Nature	of	the	building:	.............................................	..........................................................................
5.		Nature	of	the	Business	(As	per	Gazette):	.........................	Permanent	/	Temporary	..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
    
Date:	...................																																																															 	 												.......................................,
																																																																																																																		 	 			Revenue	Inspector.
Medical Officer of Health: - ............................................. ....
I	refer	for	your	recommendations.
                                                                                                               ......................................, 
																																																																																												Chief	Management	Service	Officer.	(Revenue)
Medical Officer of Health: .............................................
	 	 I	 recommend	/	do	not	recommend	granting	license	for	this	business.	Please	inform	the	Chairman	
of	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	to	instruct	the	applicant	to	fulfill	the	following	recommendations:
1. ..............................................................................................................................................................
2. ..............................................................................................................................................................
3. ..............................................................................................................................................................
4.	..............................................................................................................................................................
5.	..............................................................................................................................................................
6. ..............................................................................................................................................................
7.	..............................................................................................................................................................
8.	..............................................................................................................................................................
9.	..............................................................................................................................................................
10.	............................................................................................................................................................
Date	:-	.......................
                                                                                                             ....................................,
																																																																																																									 	 	Public	Health	Inspector.

<!-- page 386 -->

386A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
Recommendation of the Medical Officer of Health
	 	 As	per	the	above	said	report	of	Public	Health	Inspector	on	the	above	industry	/	business,	I	recommend	
/	do	not	recommend	to	issue	the	license	for	the	year	20	............
                                                                                                                         ..................................,
																																																																																																										 								Medical	Officer	of	Health.
Secretary
I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	the	license.	The	following	conditions	must	be	fulfilled:
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date	:	..........................		 	 	 	 	 	 	 ...................................,
																																																																																																																														Chief	Revenue	Inspector.
Chairman
I	recommend	/	I	do	not	recommend	issuing	the	above	license	and	forward.
                                                                                                     
Date	:	...............................			 	 	 	 																							...........................,
                                                                                                                           Secretary.
Instructions of the Chairman
	 	 On	 the	recommendation	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	I	approve	/	do	not	approve	the	issuance	
of	the	license	for	.................................................................................	being	carried	out	at..............
...................................................................,	for	the	year	of	20……..
                                                                                                                     .............................,
	Date:	................			 	 	 	 	 	 																							Chairman.
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Note of Management Service Officer
	License	Fee	Rs.	 	 :	....................................
	Receipt	No.	&	Date	 :	....................................
	License	No.	&	Date	 :	HO/PS/TL/	.................              .....................................,
Management	Services	Officer	.(Revenue)

<!-- page 387 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
387A
BY-LAW OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA RELATING OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROUS TRADE
1.	 	It	is	hereby	informed	that	the	By-Laws	on	Noxious	Businesses,	Dangerous	Businesses,	and	Noxious	
&	Dangerous	Businesses,	which	is	specified	in	the	Gazette	notification	No.	1986	and	dated	23.09.2016	
of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka,	that	is	adopted	by	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,	
same	is	published	in	Gazette	notification	No.	1947/6	and	dated	28.12.2015	same	was	proposed	by	
the	Minister	in	charge	of	Local	Government	of	the	Western	Province	under	section	2	of	the	Local	
Government	Authorities	(Standard	By-Laws)	Act,	No.	6	of	1952	which	should	be	read	with	Section	
2	of	the	Provincial	Councils	(Consequential	Provisions)	Act,	No.	12	of	1989,	will	be	repealed	after	
31.12.2022	without	prejudice	the	actions	taken	so	far	under	the	said	By-Laws	and	this	By-Law	will	
be	enacted	to	regulate,	supervise	and	control	the	Noxious,	Dangerous	and	Noxious	&	Dangerous	
Businesses	within	the	jurisdiction	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha.
     
2.	 	This	By-law	is	cited	as	the	By-law	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	relating	offensive	and	
dangerous	trade.	
   
3.	 	The	Pradeshiya	Sabha	is	vested	with	powers	to	formulate	these	By-Laws	by	virtue	of	Section		126	(ix)	
of	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.15	of	1987	read	with	the	Sub-Section	122	of	the	said	Act.	
   
4.	 	It	shall	be	lawful	for	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	to	determine	and	publish	from	time	to	time	which	trades	are	
offensive	trades,	dangerous	trades	and	offensive	and	dangerous	trades	are	relevant	to	the	purpose	of	
this	By-Law	among	the	trades	established	and	maintained	within	the	authority	area	of	the	Homagama	
Pradeshiya	Sabha	(hereinafter	referred	to	the	authority	area).	
   
5.	 	No	person	shall	engage	in	any	form	of	offensive	trade,	dangerous	trade	or	offensive	and	dangerous	
trade	(hereinafter	referred	to	trade)	as	declared	under	section	3	above	in	any	premises	located	within	
the	authority	area	except	under	a	license	obtained	from	the	Chairman	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha.		
  
   
6.	 	Submission	of	an	application	under	the	above	section	can	be	made	by	submitting	the	application	by	
fulfilling	the	requirements	by	registered	post,	handing	over	in	hand	to	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	by	
e-mail	to	the	extent	permitted	by	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha.	
   
7.	 	It	shall	be	lawful	for	the	Council	to	decide	and	charge	a	fixed	inspection	fee	for	site	inspections	to	
be	carried	out	prior	to	the	issuance	of	a	license	in	respect	of	each	application	made	under	this	By-
Law. 
   
.	 	Anyone	applying	for	a	license	under	this	By-Law	shall	have	fulfilled	the	following	conditions.	
   
	 i.	 If	there	are	permanent	constructions	under	the	premises	where	the	trade	is	being	carried	out	
(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	premises),	the	relevant	constructions	should	be	constructions	made	in	
accordance	with	a	plan	approved	under	the	Urban	Development	Authority	Act,	No.	41	of	1978	or	
under	the	Housing	and	Development	Ordinance.	
Short name.
That a license
 shall be obtained.
Inspection fees.
Conditions	for	
a license.

<!-- page 388 -->

388A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 ii.	 	If	the	area	is	zoned	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	the	Urban	Development	Authority	
Act,	No.	41	of	1978	or	the	Housing	and	Development	Ordinance,	the	premises	should	be	set	up	
accordingly. 
   
	 iii.	 	All	relevant	constructions	shall	be	in	a	properly	finished	but	shall	be	constructed	in	such	a	way	as	
not	to	adversely	affect	the	trade	conducted	on	the	premises	in	any	way.	
   
	 iv.	 	The	premises	shall	have	space	to	enable	the	relevant	operations	to	be	carried	out	at	a	sufficient	
distance. 
   
	 v.	 	All	 areas	 of	 the	 premises	 shall	 be	 arranged	 in	 such	 a	 way	 as	 to	 maintain	 proper	
cleanliness. 
   
	 vi.	 	If	there	is	a	manufacturing	process	on	the	premises,	the	part	for	it	shall	be	specifically	separated	
and	the	premises	shall	be	designed	to	prevent	customers	from	entering	it	in	any	way	except	for	
those	who	are	engaged	in	the	relevant	activities.	
   
	 vii.	 	If	there	are	storage	facilities	in	the	premises,	the	relevant	warehouses	should	be	arranged	in	
accordance	with	the	proper	safety	standards	and	suitable	for	the	purpose	and	shall	be	in	a	safe	and	
proper	condition	with	adequate	space.	
   
	 viii.	 	The	premises	 shall	 be	 properly	 lighted	 and	 ventilated,	 or	 artificially	 meet	 the	
requirements.	
   
	 ix.	 	The	floor	of	the	construction	section	and	the	non-construction	section	shall	be	prepared	with	a	
suitable	slope	so	that	it	can	be	easily	cleaned	and	easily	drained.	
   
	 x.	 	The	walls	of	the	buildings	on	the	premises	shall	be	made	of	water-repellent	material	that	can	be	
easily	cleaned,	and	the	ceiling	shall	be	installed	for	the	parts	where	the	trade	is	carried	out	other	
than	those	used	for	operations.
    
xi.		 	Doors	 and	windows	used	for	buildings	on	the	premises	shall	have	a	smooth	surface	so	that	they	
do	not	absorb	water	and	doors	for	restricted	areas	shall	be	fitted	in	such	a	manner	as	to	close	
automatically.	
   
	 xii.	 	The	premises	shall	have	a	fire	protection	program	in	place	and	a	fire	safety	certificate	should	be	
obtained as applicable.
 
	 xiii.	 	All	drains	installed	in	and	around	the	premises	shall	be	arranged	in	such	a	way	which	can	easily	
drain	waste	water	and	shall	be	directed	to	the	culverts	or	central	treatment	unit	so	that	it	is	not	
open	to	the	environment.	
   
	 xiv.	 	Soakage	pits,	suction	pits	installed	in	the	premises	shall	be	positioned	in	accordance	with	the	
approved	plan	and	should	be	set	at	a	distance	of	at	least	15.25	m	from	a	water	source	and	should	
not	be	exposed	to	air.	
   

<!-- page 389 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
389A
 xv.	 	When	discharging	sewage	and	feces	on	the	premises,
	 	 (A)	 It	shall	not	in	any	way	be	allowed	to	flow	into	a	public	waterway,	public	drain,	road	or	any	
other open area.
	 	 (B)	 The	soakage	pit	or	suction	pit	to	which	they	are	directed	shall	not	be	exposed	to	the	air	and	
shall	be	prepared	in	such	a	manner	as	not	to	pollute	the	ground	water	due	to	that	pit.
	 	 (C)	 The	 relevant	 soakage	 pit	 or	 suction	 pit	 shall	 be	 at	 least	 15.25	 m	 from	 any	 water	
source.	
   
	 xvi.	 	If	chemical	waste	water	produced	due	to	a	manufacturing	process	on	the	premises,	it	should	not	
be	disposed	of	without	treatment	under	the	direction	of	a	specific	authority.	
   
	 xvii.		(A)	Adequate	supply	of	drinking	water	to	the	premises	shall	be	provided	and	water	storage	
facilities	shall	be	provided.
	 	 (B)	 Water	storage	tanks	shall	be	of	sufficient	height	and	the	water	stored	there	shall	not	be	polluted	
in any way.
	 	 (C)	 If	drinking	water	and	non-drinking	water	are	to	be	used	in	the	premises,	the	drinking	water	
shall	be	carried	through	separate	pipelines	so	as	not	to	be	mixed	with	the	non-drinking	water,	and	
such	pipes	shall	be	painted	in	different	colors.	
   
	 xviii.		For	employees	working	in	the	premises,
	 	 (A)	 If	employed	as	a	resident,	there	shall	be	accommodation	facilities	with	adequate	sanitary	
facilities.
	 	 (B)	 When	providing	residential	facilities,	the	accommodation	facilities	should	be	at	least	four	
square	meters	per	person.
	 	 (C)	 Adequate	toilet	facilities	for	the	residents	shall	be	kept	separate	from	those	of	men	and	women	
and shall be of proper standard.
	 	 (D)	 If	there	are	sections	relevant	to	the	business	function	and	manufacturing	functions	the	
residents'	section	of	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	separately.	
   
	 xix.	 	Adequate	space	shall	be	provided	for	customers	visiting	the	premises	to	be	able	to	maintain	
physical	distance	when	required.	
   
	 xx.	 	In	the	event	of	an	epidemic	within	the	authority	area	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	
Diseases	Ordinance	and	the	regulations	made	under	it,	adequate	health	care	facilities	shall	be	
provided	to	enable	the	applicable	regulations	in	such	cases.	
   
10.		Within	fourteen	days	of	receipt	of	the	application	for	a	license	to	be	issued	under	this	By-Law,	the	
Chairman,	
Issuing	a	license.

<!-- page 390 -->

390A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 i.	 	Shall	 issue	a	permit	for	the	premises	to	the	applicant	in	accordance	with	the	information	under	
section	8.	
   
	 ii.	 	Shall	reject	the	relevant	application	with	reasons	in	case	of	non-compliance	with	the	conditions	
under	section	8.	
   
11.		 The	 fee	to	be	charged	for	a	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	shall	be	the	fee	to	be	decided	and	
published	annually	by	the	Council	subject	to	the	provisions	of	the	Basic	Law.	 	 	
 
12.		 If	 a	 license	 issued	 under	 this	 By-Law	 is	 not	 previously	 cancelled	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	
provisions	of	this	By-Law,	it	shall	be	valid	until	31st	December	of	the	year	in	which	the	license	
applies. 
   
13.		 All	 persons	licensed	under	this	By-Law	shall	act	in	accordance	with	the	conditions	set	out	
herein. 
   
	 i.	 	If	 there	is	a	rule	which	is	imposed	by	the	Chairman	from	time	to	time	under	the	instructions	of	the	
Medical	Officer	of	Health	to	control	any	epidemic	situation	that	has	been	declared	throughout	Sri	
Lanka	or	in	any	part	of	the	country	or	in	any	part	of	the	territory	or	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	
has	been	declared	under	the	regulations	made	under	the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	
Ordinance,	the	premises	shall	be	maintained	subject	to	each	such	rule.	
   
 ii.  All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all orders made by the 
Chairman	on	the	advice	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	in	respect	of	any	epidemic	declared	under	
the	Quarantine	and	Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	or	any	regulations	made	thereon.	
   
	 iii.	 	Whenever	there	is	a	suspicion	of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area,	services	should	not	be	
provided	on	the	premises	unless	the	person	seeking	employment	comes	in	accordance	with	the	
health	instructions	issued	to	control	the	spread	of	the	disease.	
   
	 iv.	 	Health	safety	instructions	imposed	by	the	Director	General	of	Health	Services	or	the	Medical	
Officer	of	Health	or	by	the	Chairman	as	per	their	instructions	in	the	event	of	an	epidemic	or	risk	
of	an	epidemic	in	the	authority	area	shall	be	implemented	and	the	licensee	should	be	satisfied	of	
doing so. 
   
	 v.	 	First	aid	facilities	should	be	provided	relevant	to	each	premises	so	that	they	can	be	used	for	
emergencies	and	the	staff	should	be	trained	for	that.	
   
	 vi.	 	Adequate	fire	protection	system	should	be	installed	in	the	premises	and	it	should	be	maintained	in	
proper	condition	under	proper	inspection.	Everyone	working	on	the	premises	should	be	aware	of	
the	functioning	of	the	fire	protection	system	in	the	premises	and	should	be	given	an	understanding	
through	a	rehearsal	of	how	to	respond	in	the	event	of	an	emergency	fire.	
   
	 vii.	 	Premises	and	 employees	 work	 in	 the	 premises	 shall	 be	 insured	 under	 appropriate	
insurance.	
   
Fees	for	a	license.

<!-- page 391 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
391A
	 viii.	 	Correct	information	on	the	area	of	residence,	full	name,	identity	card	number	and	telephone	
number	of	each	employee	employed	on	the	premises	should	be	maintained	and	all	such	information	
should	be	submitted	as	recommended	by	the	Chairman.	
   
	 ix.	 	In	the	event	of	an	epidemic	in	the	area,	everyone	working	on	the	premises	shall	act	in	accordance	
with	the	public	health	care	instructions	and	the	instructions	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	the	
health	care	instructions	issued	by	the	Chairman	in	accordance	with	the	instructions	of	the	Medical	
Officer	of	Health,	and	the	licensee	shall	ensure	of	it.	
   
	 x.	 	Appropriate	arrangements	should	be	made	for	the	disposal	of	gloves,	masks	etc.	used	in	the	
premises. 
   
	 xi.	 	Thermometer	shall	be	kept	in	order	to	measure	the	body	temperature	of	all	visitors	to	the	premises	
so	that	it	can	be	used	when	health	advice	is	given.	
   
	 xii.	 	The	premises	should	be	kept	clean	at	all	times	and	related	activities	including	disinfection	should	
be	maintained	under	proper	management.	
   
	 xiii.	 	If	there	are	any	hazardous	areas	in	the	premises,	the	relevant	sign	boards	should	be	clearly	
displayed. 
   
	 xiv.	 	According	to	the	nature	of	the	trade,	if	there	are	any	chemicals	or	other	substances	that	are	
harmful	to	health,	advertisements	should	be	pasted	on	the	dangers	and	their	usage.	
   
	 xv.	 	If	there	are	chemicals	used	and	sold	on	the	premises,	they	should	be	securely	packaged.	
   
	 xvi.	 	Anything	on	the	premises	should	not	be	affected	by	the	Tools,	equipment,	oils,	disinfectants	or	
anything	else	used	for	cleaning	on	the	premises.		
   
	 xvii.		Surfaces	that	are	frequently	touched	when	working	on	the	premises	shall	be	regularly	cleaned	
with disinfectant. 
   
	 xviii.		No	one	shall	spit	on	the	premises.	
   
	 xix.	 	If	hand	washing	is	required	as	a	precautionary	measure	for	visitors	and	employees	on	the	
premises,	facilities	should	be	provided	for	it.	
   
	 xx.	 	(A)	If	hazardous	material	is	stored	or	moved	around	the	premises,	it	should	be	stored	in	special	
safety containers.
	 	 (B)	Skilled	labor	shall	have	been	deployed	for	the	above	(A).	
   
	 xxi.	 	For	employees	working	in	the	premises,
	 	 (A)	 Adequate	bathroom	and	toilet	facilities	for	men	and	women	shall	be	provided	and	shall	be	
properly arranged.

<!-- page 392 -->

392A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 (B)	Restrictions	on	the	activities	of	residents	in	a	hazardous	premise	in	accordance	with	the	nature	of	
the	trade	shall	be	enforced	by	the	licensee	and	the	relevant	notices	shall	be	prominently	displayed	
on the premises.
	 (C)	Adequate	security	equipment	and	tools	shall	be	provided	according	to	the	form	of	trade.
	 (D)	Required	training	and	advice	must	be	provided	by	the	licensee	to	act	in	accordance	with	all	
instructions	and	orders	given	by	the	Chairman	as	per	the	instructions	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	
Health	in	the	event	of	any	epidemic	or	suspicion	of	any	epidemic	situation	in	the	area	or	in	any	
part	of	the	country	or	throughout	Sri	Lanka.
	 (E)	A	health	monitoring	system	should	be	set	up	in	the	premises	and	a	process	should	be	put	in	place	
to	provide	necessary	advice	to	the	employees.	
   
xxii.	 In	the	event	of	an	epidemic	of	transmissible	or	infectious	disease	in	the	authority	area	or	in	the	event	
of	a	possible	cause,	the	Chairman	may	instruct	that	one	or	more	of	the	following	steps	be	taken	
within	the	premises	as	recommended	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	and	those	instructions	given	
should	be	implemented	by	the	licensee.
	 (A)	Shall	maintain	a	distance	from	each	other	while	working	in	the	premises.
	 (B)	The	minimum	number	of	employees	required	for	the	service	shall	be	employed	in	small	groups	
under	several	shifts.
	 (C)	Public	gatherings	and	meetings	should	not	be	held	within	the	premises	for	a	specified	period	of	
time.
	 (D)	Shall	make	sure	that	the	body	temperature	is	under	the	normal	range	upon	entering	the	premises.
	 (E)	Meals	shall	be	provided	in	small	groups	on	the	premises.
	 (F)	Adequate	disinfectant,	soap	and	hand	washing	facilities	have	been	provided	to	clean	the	hands	of	
the	employees	and	visitors	to	the	premises.
	 (G)	Masks	shall	be	used	while	working	on	the	premises,	taking	into	account	the	need.
	 (H)	Everyone	in	the	premises	shall	properly	implement	the	respiratory	etiquette.
	 (I)	The	activities	within	the	premises	shall	be	limited	to	a	certain	period	of	time.
	 (J)	The	employees	working	on	the	premises	shall	be	subjected	to	health	checkups	as	prescribed	by	the	
Medical	Officer	of	Health	within	a	specified	period	of	time.	
   
xxiii.		 The	premises	shall	be	cleaned	daily	and	the	disinfection	process	shall	be	carried	out	as	per	a	
schedule	according	to	the	situation	and	the	licensee	should	ensure	that	it	is	so.	
   

<!-- page 393 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
393A
	 xxiv.		The	licensee	should	be	aware	of	the	potential	risks	in	conducting	the	relevant	trade	on	the	
premises, prescribe the appropriate remedies, etc., and take the necessary action. 
   
	 xxv.		The	following	measures	should	be	taken	in	relation	to	the	waste	management	of	the	premises.
	 	 (A)	 Disposal	of	waste	in	the	premises	shall	be	carried	out	in	a	proper	manner	and	if	the	waste	is	
disposed in the premises in accordance with the waste management program implemented by the 
Pradeshiya	Sabha,	the	waste	should	be	handed	over	in	accordance	with	the	relevant	instructions	
and	regulations.
	 	 (B)	 Under	no	circumstances	shall	the	licensee	mix	hazardous	waste	with	other	waste	and	hand	it	
over.
	 	 (C)	 In	the	case	of	premises	not	covered	by	the	Solid	Waste	Management	Service	operated	by	the	
Pradeshiya	Sabha,	the	licensee	shall	dispose	of	the	waste	subject	to	the	conditions	recommended	
by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	or	the	Public	Health	Inspector.
	 	 (D)	 If	there	is	a	hazardous	waste	generated	in	the	premises,	action	shall	be	taken	to	dispose	of	the	
contaminant	in	accordance	with	the	rules	and	regulations	in	force	in	that	regard.	
   
	 xxvi.		When	the	permit	applicable	to	the	premises	is	in	force	the	licensee	shall	maintain	the	premises	
in	accordance	with	all	instructions	given	by	the	Chairman	on	the	recommendation	of	the	Medical	
Officer	of	Health	regarding	the	health	safety	measures	of	the	employees	of	the	premises	and	
visitors	to	the	premises.	
   
	 xxvii.	The	premises	shall	be	maintained	so	as	not	to	cause	any	odor	or	any	other	disturbance	caused	by	
any	raw	material	or	product	or	its	by-product.	
   
	 xxviii.	Packing	height	shall	not	exceed	1.5	m	above	ground	level	unless	adequate	security	measures	
are	in	place	when	storing	the	manufacturing	products	on	the	premises	or	products	for	sale	on	the	
premises. 
   
	 xxix.		When	the	goods	sold	on	the	premises	are	governed	by	any	other	written	law	such	as	agrochemicals,	
chemicals	or	drugs,	the	relevant	license	shall	be	displayed	on	the	premises	in	a	manner	that	is	
properly	visible	to	consumers.	
   
	 xxx.		All	items	for	sale	within	the	premises	shall	be	packaged	separately.	
   
	 xxxi.		If	emissions	are	released	into	the	environment	under	products	for	sale	on	the	premises,	its	release	
shall	comply	with	the	regulations	of	the	Central	Environmental	Authority.	
   
	 xxxii.	If	noise	is	generated	during	activities	on	the	premises,	it	shall	be	controlled	in	accordance	with	
the	regulations	of	the	Central	Environmental	Authority.	
   
	 xxxiii.	Tools,	water	tanks,	stoves	and	other	equipment	used	in	the	premises	shall	be	properly	cleaned	
and	maintained	after	use.	

<!-- page 394 -->

394A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
	 xxxiv.	Any	prohibited	chemical	for	any	purpose	on	the	premises	shall	not	be	used.	
   
	 xxxv.		All	electrical	wiring	in	the	premises	shall	be	properly	maintained	and	a	report	shall	be	obtained	
from	an	electrical	engineer	or	a	qualified	professional	at	least	once	in	every	two	years.
    
	 xxxvi.	The	extent	of	the	premises	reserved	for	customers	shall	not	be	used	for	any	other	use.	
   
	 xxxvii.	 Every	place,	tools,	utensils	on	the	premises	shall	not	be	kept	in	a	manner	of	spreading	
mosquitoes,	any	other	larvae	or	insects.	
   
	 xxxviii.	A	vector	or	infected	person	suffering	from	or	suspected	of	having	an	infectious	disease	shall	
not	be	employed	on	the	premises	and	the	licensee	should	be	satisfied	that	such	person	is	not	
employed. 
   
14.		 A	license	issued	under	this	By-Law	and	the	copies	in	three	languages	of	this	By-Law	shall	be	
displayed in all licensed premises. 
   
15.		 When	the	Chairman	has	recommended	that	the	licensee	shall	enter	into	a	statement	of	agreement	
regarding	the	maintenance	of	the	premises	as	instructed	by	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	taking	into	
account	the	possible	causes	of	the	spread	of	an	epidemic	in	the	area,	the	licensee	shall	enter	into	a	
statement	of	agreement	with	the	Chairman	and	the	Chairman	shall	send	a	copy	to	the	Medical	Officer	
of Health. 
   
16.		 It	is	lawful	for	the	Chairman	or	any	other	authorized	Public	Health	Inspector	or	any	other	authorized	
officer	to	enter	the	premises	at	any	reasonable	time	to	obtain	the	necessary	samples	and	to	inspect	the	
premises	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	this	By-law.	
   
17.		 i.	In	the	event	of	a	violation	of	the	provisions	of	this	By-law	or	any	other	contrary	to	the	provisions	
of	this	By-Law	in	a	premises	licensed	under	this	By-law,	the	Chairman	shall	hand	over	a	notice	to	
the	licensee	to	be	compliance	with	the	By-Law	notifying	a	specified	period	not	exceeding	thirty	
days. 
   
	 	 ii.	Upon	submission	of	a	notice	under	this	section	to	the	licensee,	the	Chairman	may	grant	an	
additional	period	of	time	on	a	reasonable	request	to	grant	an	additional	period	to	act	in	accordance	
with	the	terms	of	the	relevant	notice.	The	period	which	is	granted	so	shall	be	subject	to	a	maximum	
period	of	fourteen	days	in	addition	to	the	period	specified	in	the	first	notice.	
   
18.		 The	Chairman	shall	cancel	the	relevant	license	in	the	event	that	the	licensee	fails	to	comply	with	the	
notice	within	the	period	of	time	or	additional	period	given	under	section	16	above.	 	 	
 
19.		 It	is	an	offense	to	maintain	a	premises	without	a	license	obtained	under	this	By-Law	or	in	violation	of	
the	provisions	of	the	By-law	and	after	being	convicted	by	a	Magistrate	Court,	he/she	shall	be	liable	
to	a	penalty	under	Sub-section	122	(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	of	1987.	Further,	after	
being	found	guilty	of	such	an	offense,	and	in	the	event	of	further	breach	of	the	law	after	a	notice	has	
been	given	by	the	Chairman	or	an	officer	authorized	by	him,	breach	of	the	law	must	be	subject	to	an	
additional	fine	referred	to	in	Sub-section	122	(2)	of	the	old	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act,	No.	15	of	1987	for	
each	day	in	which	they	continue	the	breach	of	the	law.	
That the license
 shall be displayed.
Entering	into	
a statement of
agreement.
Entering	a
premises and
obtaining samples.
Cancellation	of	
the license.
Penalty.

<!-- page 395 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
395A
20.		 Unless	other	meaning	is	required	with	regard	to	text,	in	this	By-Law;
	 “Pradeshiya	Sabha”	means	Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
	 "Chairman"	means	the	person	who	holds	the	office	of	the	Chairman	of	the	Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha	at	present	or	the	person	who	perform	the	duties	of	that	position,
						 "Medical	Officer	of	Health"	means	the	person	holding	the	post	for	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
Division	relevant	to	the	Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha area.
						"Authorized	Officer"	means	any	officer	authorized	by	the	Chairman	in	writing,
									"Reasonable	time"	means	the	time	engaged	in	a	licensed	activity	or	related	work,
	 "Trade"	means	taking	of	something	or	a	commodity	out	and	selling	it	for	money,	or	preparation	for	
sale,	or	production	for	sale.	
   
21.		 In	the	event	of	any	inconsistency	between	the	Sinhala,	English	and	Tamil	texts	of	this	By-Law	the	
Sinhala	text	shall	prevail.	
	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 				Application	Number:
Fill up the “A” section of this form and submit it before .................. to the Head Office / 
Wethara Sub Office of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Head	Office	/	Wethara	Sub	Office
Application	for	a	Trade	License	for	the	Year	20	..........
 "A"
1.	Name	of	trader:	......................................................................................................................
2.	Name	and	address	of	the	place	of	business:	...............................................	......................................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
3.	Personal	address	of	the	trader:	...............................................................................................
4.	National	Identity	Card	Number	of	the	trader:	...........................................	.............................
5.	Telephone	Number:	................................................................................................	..........................
6.	Name	and	address	of	the	owner	of	the	building	where	the	business	is	located	:	.............................
 .........................................................................................................................................................…..
7.	Grama	Niladhari	Division	Number	and	Name:	.........................................	........................................
8.	Assessment	Number	and	Street	of	the	business	place	:	....................................................................
9.	Commencement	date	of	the	Business	:	.............................................................................................
10.	Nature	of	the	business	for	which	the	license	is	applied	for:	..........................................................
It	is	requested	to	grand	the	license	to	carry	on	the	above	said	business	for	the	year	20	............	
Date:	.....................		 	 	 	 	 	 	 ...............................
																																																																																																													 								Signature	of	the	applicant.
Definition.
Inconsistency
	between	texts.

<!-- page 396 -->

396A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
For official use
"B"	Revenue	Inspector	Report
1.		Extent	of	the	business	premises:	...................................................................................................
2.	 Number	of	employees	in	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	.....................................
3.		Annual	value	of	the	place	of	business:	...........................................	....................................................
4.		Nature	of	the	building:	.............................................	..........................................................................
5.		Nature	of	the	Business	(As	per	Gazette):	.........................	Permanent	/	Temporary	..........................
 
Other information to be mentioned
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................
    
Date:	...................																																																															 	 											.......................................
																																																																																																																		 	 			Revenue	Inspector.
Medical Officer of Health: - ............................................. ....
I	refer	for	your	recommendations.
                                                                                                               ...................................... 
																																																																																													Chief	Management	Service	Officer.	(Revenue)
Medical Officer of Health: .............................................
	 	 I	 recommend	/	do	not	recommend	granting	license	for	this	business.	Please	inform	the	Chairman	
of	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	to	instruct	the	applicant	to	fulfill	the	following	recommendations.
1. ..............................................................................................................................................................
2. ..............................................................................................................................................................
3. ..............................................................................................................................................................
4.	..............................................................................................................................................................
5.	..............................................................................................................................................................
6. ..............................................................................................................................................................
7.	..............................................................................................................................................................
8.	..............................................................................................................................................................
9.	..............................................................................................................................................................
10.	............................................................................................................................................................
Date	:-	.......................
                                                                                                               ...................................
																																																																																																									 	 	Public	Health	Inspector.

<!-- page 397 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
397A
Recommendation of the Medical Officer of Health
	 	 As	 per	the	above	said	report	of	Public	Health	Inspector	on	the	above	industry	/	business,	I	
recommend	/	do	not	recommend	to	issue	the	license	for	the	year	20	............
                                                                                                                            ..................................
																																																																																																										 									Medical	Officer	of	Health.
Secretary
I	recommend	/	do	not	recommend	the	license.	The	following	conditions	must	be	fulfilled.
Conditions:
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
.......................................................................................................…………............................................
                                                                                             
Date	:	..........................		 	 	 	 	 	 													...................................
																																																																																																																													Chief	Revenue	Inspector.
Chairman
I	recommend	/	I	do	not	recommend	issuing	the	above	license	and	forward.
                                                                                                     
Date	:	...............................			 	 	 	 																																						...........................
                                                                                                                            Secretary.
Instructions of the Chairman
	 	 On	 the	recommendation	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	I	approve	/	do	not	approve	the	issuance	
of	the	license	for	.................................................................................	being	carried	out	at..............
...................................................................,	for	the	year	of	20……..
                                                                                                                     .............................
	Date:	................			 	 	 	 	 	 																								Chairman,
                                                                                                               Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Note	of	Management	Service	Officer
             
                         
	License	Fee	Rs.	 	 :	....................................
	Receipt	No.	&	Date	 :	....................................
	License	No.	&	Date	 :	HO/PS/TL/	.................              .....................................
Management	Services	Officer.	(Revenue)

<!-- page 398 -->

398A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
BY-LAW ON CONTROLLING THE DISPOSAL OF WASTE HAZARDOUS TO PUBLIC   
                                                                         HEALTH 
   
1.	 	This	By-law	is	enacted	to	recommend	disposal	strategies	to	prevent	the	disposal	of	health	safety	
equipment	used	by	the	pubic	to	the	environment	being	hazardous	to	public	health	in	an	epidemic	
situation	within	the	authority	area	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha.	
   
02.		This	By-law	is	cited	as	the	By-Law	to	control	the	disposal	of	waste	hazardous	to	the	public	health	of	
the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
03.		The	Pradeshiya	Sabha	is	vested	with	powers	to	formulate	these	By-Laws	by	virtue	of	Section	122	of	
Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	No.15	of	1987	read	with	the	Sub-Section	126(ix)	of	the	said	Act.	
   
04.		In	the	event	of	the	use	of	masks,	gloves	or	any	other	protective	wear	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	equipment	
in	some	places)	by	the	people	of	the	authority	area	in	accordance	with	the	terms	and	conditions	laid	
down	by	the	Chairman	under	the	instructions	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	to	control	an	epidemic	
situation	that	has	been	declared	throughout	Sri	Lanka	or	in	any	part	of	the	country	or	relevant	to	
the	authority	area	or	in	any	case	where	an	epidemic	has	been	declared	under	the	Quarantine	and	
Prevention	of	Diseases	Ordinance	or	any	of	the	regulations	made	under	it,	the	disposal	of	such	items	
after	use	shall	be	subject	to	the	provisions	herein.	
   
5.	 	All	public	or	private	premises	shall	have	separate	closed	garbage	containers	for	the	disposal	of	gloves,	
masks	or	any	other	protective	wear	used	by	the	public	for	health	sefety	purposes	or	at	any	instance	as	
referred	to	in	Section	4	above	relating	to	the	authority	area.	
6.	 	No	gloves,	masks	and	other	such	items	shall	be	disposed	by	any	person	other	than	a	specifically	
separated	garbage	container	mentioned	under	Section	5	above,	subject	to	the	circumstances	referred	to	
in	under	Section	4	of	this	By-Law	within	the	authority	area.	
   
7.	 	It	is	the	responsibility	and	duty	of	the	authority	of	the	premises	to	maintain	adequate	garbage	disposal	
containers	for	the	disposal	of	gloves,	masks	and	other	such	items	used	in	all	public	premises	in	the	
event	of	a	situation	referred	to	in	under	Section	4	of	this	By-Law.	
   
8.	 	No	person	shall	mix	or	dispose	any	waste	other	than	the	waste	specified	under	this	By-Law	to	a	
garbage	container	maintained	for	the	purpose	of	this	By-Law.	
   
9.	 	Disposal	or	dumping	of	waste	collected	under	this	By-Law	shall	be	carried	out	only	in	accordance	with	
the	procedure	recommended	by	the	Chairman	on	the	instructions	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health,	and	
the	waste	management	program	implemented	by	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	shall	be	publicized	within	the	
authority	area.	
   
10.		It	is	an	offense	for	any	person	to	act	in	violation	of	the	provisions	under	Sections	6	and	8	of	this	
By-Law,	and	after	being	convicted	by	the	Magistrate's	Court,	shall	be	subject	to	a	penalty	under	Sub-
Section	122(2)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	No.	15	of	1987	of	the	said	Ordinance.	
Short title.
Applicability.
That	specific
garbage bins 
shall be
maintained.
Responsibility	
of	the	public
authority.
Prevention	of	
mixing.
Penalty.

<!-- page 399 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
399A
Definition.
Inconsistency
between	texts.
Short Title.
Legal	Authority.
Establishment	of	
Vehicle parks.
11.		Unless	other	meaning	is	required	with	regard	to	text,	in	this	By-Law;
	 “Council”	means	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha,
	 “Chairman”	means	the	person	who	hold	the	office	of	the	Chairman	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	
Sabha	at	that	time	or	perform	the	duties	of	that	position,
	 "Medical	Officer	of	Health"	means	the	person	holding	the	post	for	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	
Division	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha.
	 “Public	Health	Inspector”	means	a	person	who	holds	the	post	of	Public	Health	Inspector	attached	to	
the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	the	office	of	the	Medical	Officer	of	Health	relevant	to	the	authority	area	of	the	
Pradeshiya Sabha.
	 "Authority	Area"	means	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	area,	
   
12.		In	the	event	of	any	inconsistency	between	the	Sinhala,	English	and	Tamil	texts	of	this	By-Law	the	
Sinhala	text	shall	prevail.	
By-Laws ON ESTABLISHMENT OF VEHICLE PARKS AND RECOVERY OF CHARGES
1.			By-law	of	this	part	is	referred	to	as	By-Law	relating	to	the	establishment	of	Vehicle	parks	and	Recovery	
of	Charges	within	the	area	of	authority	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha.
2.			The	Pradeshiya	Sabha	is	empowered	to	make	this	By-law,	under	sub-section	122	which	has	to	be	read	
with	Section	126	(vii)	(h)	of	the	Pradeshiya	Sabha	Act	of	1964.	
3.			For	the	purpose	of	parking	motor	vehicles	within	area	of	authority	of	the	Sabha,	hereinafter	referred	to	
as	“Vehicle	Parks”	-
  i.   Any land owned by Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha or
	 	ii.	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	should	have	the	power	to	allocate	any	land	owned	by	any	authority	in	 
				accordance	with	an	agreement	entered	into	with	that	authority.
	 (b)	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	shall	decide	from	time	to	time	the	types	of	vehicles	that	can	be	
parked	and	the	maximum	number	of	vehicles	that	can	be	parked	at	one	time	in	a	particular	vehicle	
park. 
4.	 	Each	vehicle	park	must	have	at	least	two	gates,	one	at	the	entrance	and	one	at	the	exit.	However,	if	
there	is	a	separate	diversion	section	inside	the	park	and	there	is	a	dual	carriageway	and	gateway	that	
allows	two	vehicles	to	travel	on	both	sides	at	the	same	time,	with	sufficient	space	at	the	gate	it	shall	be	
in	order	to	have	only	one	gate	for	entry	as	well	as	exit.	
5.	 	Action	should	be	taken	to	display	easily	readable	notices	in	all	three	languages	at	the	entry	and	the	
exit	for	the	convenience	of	the	vehicles	arriving	at	the	vehicle	park.	Also,	arrows	with	white	lines	20	
centimeters	wide	shall	be	marked	so	as	to	enable	the	drivers	to	easily	recognize	the	directions	they	
shall	follow	while	entering	in	to	the	vehicle	park	and	leaving	it.
6.	 	Every	vehicle	park	shall	be	tarred	or	laid	with	concrete	separate	and	lavatories	shall	have	been	made	
available	for	the	males	and	females	using	the	vehicle	park.	At	the	same	time	sufficient	drains	shall	have	
been	constructed	for	the	free	flow	of	water	accumulated	at	the	site.

<!-- page 400 -->

400A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
7.	 	Take	steps	to	remove	garbage	collected	within	the	premises	of	every	vehicle	park	daily	and	to	clean	
the	lavatories	using	disinfectants	daily.
8.			When	accommodation	is	made	to	park	vehicles	at	any	vehicle	park,	sufficient	traffic	lanes	shall	be	
made	available	for	the	convenience	of	vehicles	entering	and	leaving	the	premises.
9.	 	When	any	vehicle	is	being	driven	or	being	parked	within	the	vehicle	park,	sufficient	space	shall	be	
made	available	in	it	to	park	each	vehicle	so	as	not	to	cause	any	obstruction	to	those	already	parked	
within.	Also,	a	white	line	10	centimeters	wide	shall	be	marked	to	indicate	the	space	allocated	to	each	
vehicle	in	the	park.
10.		Parking	inside	of	any	vehicle	park	can	be	charged	at	a	rate	determined	by	the	Homagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha	from	time	to	time.	It	shall	be	duty	of	the	Chairman	to	make	arrangements	to	display	clearly	the	
amount	of	the	fee	determined	by	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	as	charges	for	parking	any	type	of	
vehicle	that	can	be	parked	in	a	Vehicle	park,	at	the	entrance	of	that	Vehicle	park	in	all	three	languages.
11.   i. Any employee of the Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha or,
	 	 ii.	Any	successful	bidder	selected	by	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	after	calling	for	tenders	 
	or	a	person	nominated	by	the	said	bidder:	
   hereinafter referred to as the "Vehicle Park Warden" shall be deployed to collect charges made on 
vehicles	parked	in	the	vehicle	park.	
(b)		However,	while	the	fees	charged	for	parking	vehicles	in	any	vehicle	park	shall	not	exceed	the	fees	
decided	by	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	in	the	manner	stated	in	the	By-Law	No.	10,	the	fees	charged	
for	parking	each	vehicle	shall	be	noted	down	in	a	receipt	substantially	prepared	according	to	the	first	
Schedule	in	this	part	and	issued	to	the	driver.
12.		It	shall	be	the	duty	of	the	Chairman	to	ensure	that	every	Vehicle	Park	Warden	on	duty	is	dressed	in	a	
suit	to	be	decided	by	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	and	which	would	allow	easy	identification	of	
the Park Warden.
13.	(a)		 It	shall	be	the	duty	of	the	Vehicle	Park	Warden	to	issue	an	Admission	Card	indicating	permission	
to	enter	and	prepared	substantially	in	accordance	with	the	second	Schedule	in	this	part	to	the	driver	of	
the	vehicle	at	the	entrance	to	the	park	when	a	vehicle	of	any	type	allowed	to	be	parked	under	paragraph	
	 (b)	of	By-law	No.	3	enters	the	vehicle	park.	
	 (b)		 Before	leaving	the	vehicle	park,	it	shall	be	the	duty	of	the	driver	of	any	vehicle	parked	in	the	
vehicle	park	to	:-
	 	 (i)	return	the	card	mentioned	in	paragraph	(a)	to	the	 Vehicle	Park	Warden,
	 	 (ii)	 pay	to	the	vehicle	park	warden	parking	fees	decided	by	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	in	
the	manner	set	out	in	By-Law	No.	10.
Processing of fees.
Vehicle Park
warden.
Admission	Card.

<!-- page 401 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
401A
	 	 (iii)	obtain	a	suitable	receipt	mentioned	in	paragraph	(b)	of	By-Law	No.	11.
14.	(a)		 Any	person	shall	not	park	or	drive	into	a	vehicle	park	or	allow	to	be	driven	into	the	park	any	
vehicle	or	a	vehicle	which	is	not	a	motor	vehicle	unless	it	is	a	vehicle	of	the	type	decided	by	the	
Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	to	be	allowed	into	the	vehicle	park	for	parking.	
	 (b)		 When	there	is	sufficient	space	at	the	entry	gate	for	any	vehicle	arriving	at	the	vehicle	park	to	tow	
away	any	vehicle	parked	inside	it	when	it	is	found	impossible	to	start	it	in	order	to	take	it	out	
of	the	park,	the	provisions	in	paragraph	(a)	shall	not	apply	for	the	other	vehicle.	However,	such	
towing	shall	not	be	made	in	a	manner	causing	any	obstacle	or	harm	to	other	vehicles	parked	in	the	
vehicle	park.
15.	Any	person	shall	not	:-
	 (a)		 wash	a	vehicle	or	cause	a	vehicle	to	be	washed	;
	 (b)		 make	any	repairs	other	than	an	essential	repair	in	order	to	start	the	vehicle	or	changing	a	tire	for	
the	purpose	of	taking	the	vehicle	out	of	the	vehicle	park	;
	 (c)		 make	any	noise	which	is	considered	unnecessary	or	oppressive	when	any	repair	mentioned	in	
paragraph	(b)	are	carried	out.
	 (d)		 park	the	vehicle	in	any	place	in	the	vehicle	park	other	than	where	it	was	originally	parked	without	
permission	from	the	vehicle	park	warden	;
	 (e)		 park	the	vehicle	so	as	to	block	the	lane	of	the	vehicle	park	or	the	gates	at	the	entry	and	the	exit	;
	 (f)		 blow	the	alarm	instruments	fixed	in	the	vehicle	except	for	the	purpose	of	preventing	an	accident	
or	ensuring	the	safety	of	the	passengers	in	the	vehicle;
	 (g)		 blow	the	horn	of	any	vehicle	parked	or	entering	or	leaving	the	vehicle	park	;
	 (h)		 consume	liquor	or	spit	after	chewing	betel	leaves	or	use	indecent	language	or	create	commotion	
or	engage	in	immoral	activities,	in	any	vehicle	park.
16.		 While	the	responsibility	in	regard	to	the	security	of	any	vehicle	parked	in	any	vehicle	park	shall	lie	
with	the	person	who	parks	it	in	the	vehicle	park,	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha	or	the	Vehicle	Park	
Warden	shall	not	be	subjected	to	responsibility	in	regard	to	any	loss	or	harm	caused	within	the	vehicle	
park.
17.		 It	shall	be	the	duty	of	the	owner	or	the	driver	of	any	vehicle	parked	within	any	vehicle	park	to	submit	
for	inspection	the	admission	card	issued	in	respect	of	the	vehicle	when	the	chairman	or	any	authorized	
officer	or	the	Vehicle	Park	Warden	or	any	Police	Officer	requests	it	for	inspection.
18.		 No	vehicle	shall	on	any	occasion	be	driven	in	the	opposite	direction	of	the	lane	which	is	marked	
indicating	the	direction	to	drive	within	any	vehicle	park	in	the	manner	set	out	in	By-law	No.5.

<!-- page 402 -->

402A
IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2022
19.		No	person	shall	harm	or	deface	any	construction	made	or	instrument	found	in	any	vehicle	park.
20.		The	provisions	of	the	By-laws	in	this	part	shall	not	apply	to	:-
  
	 	 (a)	overnment	vehicles,
	 	 (b)	vehicles	of	the	Provincial	Council,
	 	 (c)	vehicles	of	a	local	authority	established	within	the	Province,	parked	within	any	vehicle	park	
established	within	the	area	of	authority	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha.	However,	the	said	
provisions	shall	apply	in	respect	of	any	vehicle	of	any	State	Corporation	or	Statutory	Body	in	the	
manner	set	out	in	By-Laws	in	this	part.	
21.		 It	shall	be	lawful	for	the	chairman,	or	an	authorized	officer	or	the	Vehicle	Park	Warden	to	take	action	
to	remove	any	vehicle	parked	in	the	vehicle	park	without	a	valid	admission	card.
22.		In	this	By-law	of	this	part,	unless	the	context	otherwise	requires,
	 "Vehicle"	means	any	motor	vehicle	in	conformity	with	the	definition	given	in	the	Motor	Traffic	Act	in	
respect	of	any	motor	vehicle.
	 “Sabha”	means	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha
	 "Chairman"	means	the	Chairman	of	the	Homagama	Pradeshiya	Sabha
First Schedule
Paragraph (b) of By-Law No. 11
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Vehicle park at .................................
Vehicle	Parking	Fees
Receipt	No.	:	...........................................
	 Refistration	No.	of	the	Vehicle	 :..............................................................
	 Date	 :...................................20.......................
	 Time	of	arrival	 :..............................................................
	 Time	of	departure	 :..............................................................
	 Fees	charged	:	Rs.	 :..............................................................

<!-- page 403 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'17
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  17.11.2022
403A
Second Schedule
Paragraph (a) in By-Law No. 13
Font side of the Card
Back side of the card 
EOG	11	-	0187/3
                     
                   
             
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Vehicle park at .................................
ADMISSION	CARD
This	card	should	not	be	transferred
To	be	handed	over	when	leaving	the	Vehicle	Park
PRINTED	AT	THE	DEPARTMENT	OF	GOVERNMENT	PRINTING,	SRI	LANKA.