

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 24]
————————
Presented by Hon. Harshana Rajakaruna M. P. for Gampaha District
on 24th November, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on Novermber 09, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5. 00
2-2d
2-
DHAMMADEEPA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Dhammadeepa Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Dhammadeepa Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 009318—300  (10/2015)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE DHAMMADEEPA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as
“Dhammadeepa Foundation” has heretofore has been formed
For the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied
to be incorporated and it will be  advantageous to grant said
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Dhammadeepa
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Dhammadeepa Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate, with perpetual succession under the name and
style of the “Dhammadeepa Foundation” (hereinafter referred
to as “the Corporation”)  and by that name may sue and be
sued, with full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) to create an educational, social, healthy and
economic background to make Sri Lanka a
Dharmadeepaya (an island of canon) with
disciplined and righteous society;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of
Dhammadeepa
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Dhammadeepa Foundation (Incorporation)2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to carry on Buddhist services by safeguarding
security of Buddhism;
(c) to do charitable services under different projects;
(i) For a quality education;
(ii) For economic development activies;
(iii) Projects such as awarding of scholarship to
economically backward students.
(d) going to remote under developed
villages and providing them with various relief
after identifying their difficulties;
(e) after identifying threats to Buddhism and the nation
and implementing steps to eradicate them.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law perform and execut the following:—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind and requesting subscriptions;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold,
take of give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property
and construct, maintain and alter any buildings or
works necessary or convenient for the business of
the Corporation;
(c) to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purpose of the Corporation in such manner as
the elected Executive Committee may determine.
(e) to enter into agreements or contracts with any
persons or body of persons;
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Dhammadeepa Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(f) to appoint, employ or terminate the services of
officers and servants of the Corporation and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;
(g) the Corporation has the power to do things
incidental and opportune for the implementation
of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The management, control and adminstration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provision of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vested in an Executive Council (hereinafter referred to as
the “Upper Council”) consisting of the office bearers and
such other persons as may be provided for in such rules and
elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Executive Council members of the
Corporation shall consist of the members of the Upper
Council of the Foundation holding office on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
(3) The first patron of the Corporation will be the Thalalle
Chandakiththi Thero and as per the sub section (2) above
those members who held office in the Executive Council of
the Corporation shall be deemed to hold corresponding offices
in the first Executive Council of the Corporation.
6.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistence with
the provision of this Act, or any other written law, for all or
any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members  and admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members;
The
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Dhammadeepa Foundation (Incorporation)4
5
10
15
20
25
(b) the election of o ffice bearers of the Upper Council
or vacation of or removel from, office and the
powers, of the Upper Council, duties and functions
of the office bearers;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions and
conditions of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation and dismissing them
from service and terminating their services;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of the meeting of the Upper Council,
the Corporation and any sub Council thereof,
including the quorum thereof and the conduct of
the business thereat;
(e) the qualification and disqualification for the
membership of the Corporation and the Upper
Council;
(f)
the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) the general management of the Corporation for the
accomplishment of the object of the Corporation.
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding to the date of commencement  of this Act shall, in
so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or other written law, be deemed to be rules of the
Corporation made under this section and in like manner
rules made by the Corporation may be amended, altered,
added to rescinded.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Dhammadeepa Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
7. All debts and liabilities of the Corporation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscription and contributions payable to
the Corporation on that shall be paid to the Corporatoin.
8. The money and property of the Corporation
however derived under this Act, shall be applied solely
towards the promotion of its objects as per the rules of the
Corporation must be borne, made use of and applied.
According to the presently existing rules of the Corporation,
it is vested with the full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and libilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
the qualified auditor as may be determined by the Upper
Council.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be  affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
patron and the secretary or any other two members as
determined by the Upper Council and who shall sign their
names on the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing  of any person
as a witness.
11. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corportaion or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
30
Debts due to
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movabel and
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Accounts and
audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

Dhammadeepa Foundation (Incorporation)6
5
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any public board or
corporation or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Dhammadeepa Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .