

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'10'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
821
wxl 1"936 - 2015 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'10'09
No. 1,936 – FRIDAY ,  OCTOBER  09,  2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices for
publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from
the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th October, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th October, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall  be
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W.  A.  A.  G.  FONSEKA,
Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
By-Laws ... 822
Posts - V acant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
821
N.B.—  Part  IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,935 of  02.10.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –09.10.2015
822
By-Laws
DERANIYAGALA  PRADESHIYA   SABHA
IN term of the powers vested by me under the diction 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, as the minister in  charge of the subject of Local
Government, I hereby declare that I have approved the following By-Law, employed by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha of the administrtive
foundation of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council by virtue of the power vested in it under the diction 122 and 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.
15 of 1987.
MAHEEPALA HERA TH,
Minister-in-Charge of the Subject  of
Local Government.
07th August, 2015.
BY-LAW PERTAINING TO REGULA TE AND MAINTAIN THE PUBLIC LIBRARIES OF DERANIYAGALA PRADESHIYA
SABHA
01. This By-Law is named as the By-Law of regulating, supervising and maintaining of libraries within the authoritative area of the
Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. This By-Law is imposed by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha to regulate and govern the Public Library Service by providing
varieties of resources and services for educational development, to improve the interest of reading, development of individual discipline and
personality and to provide entertaining and creative requirements of the occupants in the authoritative area of Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. According to the requirements of the public of the authoritative area, public libraries of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya  Sabha
comprises of the following sections and services.
(i) Lending Section
(ii) Reference Section
(iii) Children’s Section
(iv) Periodicals and news papers Section
(v) Studying Section (Reading hall)
(vi) Publication Conservation Section
(vii) Rare Publications Section
(viii) Special collections and regional collections
(ix) Community information Section
(x) Photo Copying Service
(xi) Audio visual and Information and Communication Technology Section
(xii) Extensive Services
04. There should be a Librarian in the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha Library and the one who is appointed to the post should take
responsibility of regulating and maintaining the organization and management of the Public Library.
05. The supervision and the general management of the public library is entrusted to the advisory committee (hereinafter it it named
ad the committee of the library)
I. This committee is appointed annually by the Pradeshiya Sabha. It comprises of the following persons.
(a) The chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha;
(b) Not more than three members who are selected among the members of the Pradeshiya Sabha;
(c) One delegate from each religion in order to represent religions followed by the occupants of the relevant area of the
Pradeshiya Sabha;
(d) Distinguished persons selected by the Pradeshiya Sabha not exceeding three who are residing in the authoritative
are of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(e) The Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'10'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
823
(f) The community development officer
(g) The librarian of the main library of the Pradeshiya Sabha
(h) One principal from a main school in the relevant area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(i) One delegate from a Prajamandalaya within the area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
II. The chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha should be the chairman of committee, in rank and he must preside every
committee meeting when the chairman is not present a member of the library appointed from the present memebrs of
the committee should preside the meeting.
III. The secretary of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha should be the converner,
IV . The librarian of the main library of the Pradeshiya Sabha should be the secretary of the committee.
V. The quorum of the meeting shuld be 1/3 of the total number of members,
VI. The member who takes the chair of any meeting has one vote to be cast, if the number of pro and con votes resembles
in regard to any problem arisen, he has a decisive vote to be cast.
6.  Obtaining membership
I. Everyone who hopes to get library service should apply for a membership from the librarian by forewarding the application
which get after paying due fees, determined by a resolution taken by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
II. Qualification to get the membership of the library
(a) To be a permanent resident or a proprietor within the authoritative area of the Pradeshiya Sabha to get an
ordinary membership.
(b) To be a student over five years in age and studying in a school or a Pirivena to get a student membership.
(c) Age limit is not a requirement to use the children’s library.
III. The application should get certified by one of the under mention person
(a) The Grama Niladhai of the occupied area
(b) A justice of peace
(c) One of the members of the Pradeshiya Sabha
(d) An administrative officer of the state service or Provincial State service
(e) The Principal or the class teacher if the applicant is a student of a School
IV. Subscription fee
(a) To get and ordinary membership the subscription fee is Rs. 100 per year
It should be renewed once a year paying Rs. 50
(b) To get a student membership the subscription fee is Rs. 50 per year. It should be renewed once a year paying
Rs. 25
V. Guarantors
(a) For ordinary members, guarantors should be permanent residents who pay rates to the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(b) For student membrs their mother/Father/guardian should sign as guarantors.
7. For a member in the lending library two permits are issued and member should take the resposibility for each book burrowed by him.
8.  A burrowed book from the lending library should be returned to the librarian within a period of 14 days from the date of receipt.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –09.10.2015
824
9. In accordance with the 8th Schedule of the By-law, when any book is neglected by a member to return to the librarian within 14
days, from the date of returning that book exceeds, and overdue charge of Rs. 2 for each day for ordinary members and overdue charge of
Rs. 1 for each day for members under 12 years of age can be charged or it is liable to bid a certain amount of money to be paid by a proposed
agreement taken by Sabha intermittently under recommendation of the committee.
10.  According to the 8th Schedule of the By-law when a borrowed book is not returned within 14 days and exceeds seven days from
the mentioned date one reminding letter should be sent to the member and the guarantor each, and expenses regarding that process should be
charged from the member or the guarantor. Yet the member neglects to return the borrowed book, it is determined to be lost.
11. On occasions when a book is determined to be lost, the price of the book plus 25% of the price as service charge and overdue
charge mentioned in the 9th Schedule of the By-law has to be paid by the member or the guarantor. A borrowed book should not be damaged
or disfigured in any form by the member.
12.  It is the duty of the member to inform the librarian about the damage or disfigure made to a book to be borrowed and any members
neglects to inform it to the librarian it should be considered that that book was issued to the member without any damage or disfigure.
13. When the librarian confirms the returned book is damaged or disfigured by a member not suitable for issuing again that member is
liable to be afforded for procuring that book. After procuring that book should be sealed mentioning “sold as a damaged book” and book should
be given to the member.
14. No any book borrowed from the library can be alienated.
  15. I. If the above mentioned rules and regulations in 13th Schedule of the By-law is deviated the member will be deprived of
his membership.
II. If any book revealed to be handled by a person who is suffering from any contagious or contact disease, should not be
returned to the library by any member who knows about it.
III. When any book borrowed from the library handled by a person suffering from a contagious or contact disease should be
destroyed and the member should pay the librarian expenses of procuring that book.
IV. When a membership card issued to a member of the lending library is misplaced the member should inform the librarian
about it in written. If the librarian is satisfied that the member had not borrowed a book from the library, he can issue an
additional membership card to that member.
V. Unless 14 days has elapsed from the date that the member has noticed about the misplacement of the membership card,
librarian should not issue an additional membership card.
16. If any doubt arisen among two or more members pertaining to the issue of any book the controversy should be solved by the
librarian.
17. When a book to be lent is asked by any member it should be issued and if the said book has already been issued the particular book
for the applicant should be marked in the waiting list and the librarian should take action to issue the book to the due person, after the book is
returned to the library.
18. The lending section of the library is kept open everyday from 8.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m. besides on Sundays, public holidays and
scheduled days decided by the committee for taking stocks.
19. Reference Section
I. The books that are kept in the reference section should be handled after signing in the register with the permission of the
librarian.
II. No any library book, magazine or anything issued for reference is allowed to take out from the reference section.
Nevertheless, if the photocopy service is available under the consent and guardianship of the librarian, any person should
be allowed to have required copies of pages of the publication after paying the relevant charges for photocopying.
III. A certain amount of money ordered by a proposed agreement taken by the Sabha intermittently under the recommendation
at the committee can be chrged for the photocopy service.
IV. The reference section is kept open everyday from 8.00 a.m. to 4.00 p. m. but, on particular days and times decided by the
Sabha under the recommendation at the committee the reference section will be kept open for the readers.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'10'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
825
20. Reading hall
I. The reading hall is kept open from 8.00 a.m. to 4.00 p.m. everyday in which the library is opened or on the days and times
decided by the Sabha under the recommendation of the committee. Anybody is allowed to use the reading hall, after
mentioning his name and the time of arrival and signing in the register, kept in the reading hall.
II. It should not be damaged to any newspaper, periodical, map or any other thing in the library.
21. Photocopy Service
I. If the photocopy service is available under the consent and the guardianship of the librarian any person should be allowed
to have required copies of pages of the publication after paying the relevant  charges.
II. It should be charged Rs. 3.00 for a single side photocopy and Rs. 5.00 for double side photocopy as photocopying fees.
Nevertheless the Sabha has the possibility of revising charges for photo copies by a proposed agreement taken under the
recommendation of the committee.
22. Audio, Visual information and communication technology section.
   (a)   Internet Facilities
I. After completing an application equal to the application giving in the Sub schedule No. 1 of this By-law a person can
reserve one hour for internet service.
II. It should be charged Rs. 20.00 per hour for internet facilities. Nevertheless the Sabha has the possibility of revising
charges intermittently by a proposed agreement taken under the recommendation of the committee.
III. Internet facilities are available from 8.30 a.m. to 4.00 p.m., everyday and on particular days and times decided by the
Sabha under the recommendation of the committee.
(b)  e - Library Service
I. A member of the lending library can borrow one book with a compact disc at a time for one of the permits out of the two
permits he gets and he must deposit Rs. 100 as a security which the member can get back.
II. If it revealed the compact disc taken away by a member, is damaged, it is legal to substitute the security of Rs. 100 for the
loss.
23.  Any person,
I. should not behave rudely or commit a nuisance inside or outside the Deraniyagala Public Library Premises;
II. should not damage to any property of the library or the part of the Pradeshiya Sabha Building or disfigure in any form;
III. Should not retain in the premises of the library or loiter in vain;
IV. should not take liquor,  smoke or spit within the premises of the library;
V. should not engage in gambling with dominoes or cards within the premises of the library;
VI. should not disturb the users of the library making any noise by singing or any other way;
VII. should not enter the library uncleaned;
VIII. should not bring any animal into the premises of the library;
IX. should not sleep or take meals;
X. should not disturb the librarian or any other person who acts under the direction of the librarian, to act legally according to
this By-law;
XI. should not enter the premises of the library who suffers or suffered recently from any contagious, contact or skin disease,
and also who attended a person suffered from such disease until spreading period has passed.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –09.10.2015
826
24. It can be charged a fee decided by the Sabha from the persons who did not get the membership for the use of reference section
and other sections except the lending section , according to the sub schedule -02. These fees can be revised intermittently by proposed
agreements under the recommendation of the committee.
25. Annual stock verification
I. It is the responsibility of the secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha to do an annual stock verification every year.
II. Annual stock verification report should be presented to the Sabha.
III. Recommendation given by the Sabha regarding the annual stock verification report should be implemented within 2 months
from the date of approval by the Sabha.
26. Violating any Schedule of this By-law is an offence when any person declared a culprit by a courts of law and according to the
Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15- 1987 declared a cuprit by imposing a fine, if the same guilt is continually repeated further
more, even after chairman or the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or other authorized officer handing over a written notice same guild is
repeated, under the Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15, 1987 he/she is subjected to an additional fine.
27. Definition
I. The librarian means the in charge officer who is appointed by the Pradeshiya Sabha, and his/her assistants.
II. The community development officer means the staff offcer appointed by the commissioner of Local Government for
community development of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
III. The Sabha means the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha.
IV. The Committee means the advisory committee of the library.
V. Distinguished persons means the learned and intelligent occupants who live in the authoritative area of the Pradeshiya
Sabha, and who render an eminent and noticeable social work.
Sub Schedule  - 01
APPLICATION FOR THE USE OF INTERNET FACILITIES FOR MEMBERS
Public Library - Pradeshiya Sabha - Deraniyagala
Name of the member
Address
ID No. :
Membership (Ordinary/Student)
Date
Time - From............ to.............
Amount paid
(Rs. 20 per hour) 1st hour -
2nd hour -
3rd hour-
4th hour -
Signature
...........................................
Signature of the librarian.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'10'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
827
Sub Schedule  - 02
APPLICATION FOR THE USE OF INTERNET FACILITIES AND E-LIBRARY SERVICE FOR NON-MEMBERS
Public Library - Pradeshiya Sabha - Deraniyagala
Name
Address
ID No. :
Profession
Date
Time - From............ to.............
Amount paid
(Rs. 50 per hour) 1st hour -
2nd hour -
3rd hour-
4th hour -
Signature
...........................................
Signature of the librarian.
10 - 328
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.