

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
JEYARAJ  FERNANDOPULLE  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)  ACT, No. 34 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 23rd  August, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 24, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2007
1
Short title.
Preamble.
[Certified on 23rd August, 2007]
L. D. O (INC) 24/2005
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  JEYARAJ  FERNANDOPULLE
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an association called and known as the Jeyaraj
Fernandopulle Foundation has heretofore been formed in
Negombo for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting the objects and matters connected with the said
association according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Jeyaraj Fernandopulle
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation” (hereinafter referred to
as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter  be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that
name may sue, and be sued, in all courts, with full power and
authority to  have, and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needy
school children to enable them to continue their
education, encourage them to attend school
regularly, assist them in their educational, cultural
and scientific activities and to establish permanent
and mobile libraries;
General objects of
the Corporation.
Incorporation of
the Jeyaraj
Fernandopulle
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2007
2
(b) to organize seminars, workshops, lecturers,
exhibitions, competitive tests and educational tours
with a view to promoting the educational activities
of school children and to hold competitions and
training camps in order to improve their sports skills
and artistic skills and to take steps, including the
award of prizes and certificates and giving assistance
for local or foreign tours to talented children;
(c) to offer prizes and organize workshops and seminars,
and provide loan schemes and other assistance to
school principals and teachers, in order to appreciate
and encourage their services and to improve their
professional knowledge;
(d) to take  necessary steps to promote artistic creations,
sports skills and teachnical knowledge of school
leavers and to set up vocational training centers as
well as give them assistance to persue studies in
computer science and technology and to establish
institutions to provide such studies;
(e) to assist by granting scholarships to students selected
to Universities and Technical Colleges and to
establish self-employment opportunities  for
unemployed citizens and to provide loans and to
inaugurate various savings schemes;
(f) to inaugurate and maintain pre-schools for early
childhood development of the poor children,
inaugurate and maintain classes in various
languages and various subjects for elders, school
children, school leavers and provide them with other
facilities;
(g) to provide lands and houses to families who do not
own lands and houses, inaugurate water supply
schemes in areas where there is a shortage of water,
take steps to prevent and minimize natural disasters

<!-- page 4 -->

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2007
3
such as floods, provide buildings to schools with
less facilities and to cater to other needs of such
schools and provide infrastructure facilities such
as roads, electricity and health in various areas;
(h) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or caste and
to conduct various festivals and competitions;
(i) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses for displaced persons and elders and
establish and maintain Children’s home and day
care centres for children and  elders;
(j) to promote, arrange and organize exhibitions,
lectures, seminars, discussions, workshops, debates,
panel discussions, tours, pleasure trips or such other
activities with a view to accomplishing the
objectives of the Corporation and to print, publish
and distribute such books, journals, bulletins and
newspapers as are necessaty to achieve these objects;
(k) to provide facilities for the blind, deaf and dumb by
the establishment and maintenance of transit
houses; and
(l) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board
of Directors consisting of Chairman and  a Secretary,
Treasurer and another nine more members elected in
accordance with such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Minister Jeyaraj Fernandopulle shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Directors for life and thereafter, the eldest child of
the person who was holding office as the Chairman, shall
become the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2007
4
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of  Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors, a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy, and such a new member shall hold office for a period
of four years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or futherance of the
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or
raise money with or without security, to receive or collect
grants and donations, to invest funds and to engage, employ
and dismiss, officers and servants required for the carrying
out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from to time,
at any General Meeting of the members and by a majority of
not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting to
make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
General powers
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2007
5
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities  of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that date shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of the Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Directors shall determined.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Debts due by and
payable to the
foundation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2007
6
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property both movable or immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant,
lease, gift, testementary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and be subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation and the Corporation shall have full power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as membership
fees.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members. Such institution
or institutions shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at, or immediately before the time of the
dissolution.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Auditing and
accounts of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining after
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

Jeyaraj Fernandopulle Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2007
7
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Chairman and one other member of the Board of Directors,
who shall write and sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic,
corporate or of any other persons.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO .  163,  KIRULAPONA   MAW ATHA ,  POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before
  15th December each year in respect of the year following.