

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
                               Page
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
                               Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 184
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2137- 2019 wf.daia;= ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'08'16                                                            
No. 2137 - FRidAy ,  AUGUSt 16,  2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  6th September, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd August, 2019.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer 
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
183 - B 81551 -353 (2019/08)
N.B.—  Part II of the  Gazette No. 2136  of  09.08.2019 was  not  Published. 
Note.–    (i) Inland Trust Receipts (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 09, 2019.
 (ii) Finance Leasing (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 09, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'16
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 16.08.2019
184
miscellaneous Lands notices
PRiNtEd  At  thE  dEPARtMENt  OF  GOvERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LANkA.
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/54918.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: 
m<d;a$bfld$b9$fldfí$§'n 02' 
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  
LAnD  ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
it  is hereby notified that for the purpose of  Society Board of 
trustees of Sunila diya dahara Praja Mula Sanwidanaya has 
r e q u e s t e d  o n  l e a s e  a   S t a t e  L a n d  c o n t a i n i n g  i n  e x t e n t  a b o u t                                                                                                                      
3.5 P as depicted in approximate tracing drawn by  colonization 
officer and situated in the Village of Leekolawewa which 
belongs to the Grama Niladhari division of  No. 1320 
Leekolawewa coming within the area authority of Kobeigana 
divisional Secretariat in the district of kurunegala.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Portion of Land ku/Pra/122818 (State 
Land) ;
On the East by : Portion of Land ku/Pra/122818 (State 
Land) and Wepathwewa ;
On the  South by :  Portion of Land ku/Pra/122818 (State 
Land);
On the West by :  Portion of Land ku/Pra/122818 (State 
Land).
03. the land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions : -
 
 (a) Term of the Lease.– Five Years (05),               
  ( Five years from 02.10.2018);
 (b) The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 1/2% of the   
undeveloped   value  of  the land,  as per valuation of 
the Chief  valuer for the year 2018 approved by the 
honorable Minister.
Premium - Nill ; 
 (c)  this  lessees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the divisional Secretary ;
 (d)  the lessees must not use this land for any purpose 
other than for the  purpose of  Constructing  the well 
and shed for water Pump;
 (e) the  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary and  by other  institutions.
 (f) the buildings constructed and to be constructed must 
be maintained in a proper state of repair.
 
 (g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease.
 
 (h)  No sub leasing or transferring can be done until  the 
expiry  of a minimum period of 05 years, before 
02.10.2018 expect subleasing or transferring to fulfill 
the purpose of the lease,
 
 (i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse,
  if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date of publication of this 
notification in the Gazette to the effect that this land 
must not be given on lease, the land will be leased out 
as requested. 
  
W. K. N. Nayomi,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6,  Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
16th August, 2019.
08-678