

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.04.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1703$45 - 2011 wfm%a,a 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'04'29
No. 1703/45  -  FRIDAY,  APRIL  29,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT, No. 14  OF  2008
Notification under section 3 (2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, I,
Basil Rohana Rajapaksa, Minister of  Economic Development, do by this Notification, in consultation with the Minister
whom the subject of Ports and Highways has been assigned –
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the project for the
development of the South Container Terminal under the Colombo Port Expansion, on Build Operate and
Transfer (BOT)  basis. The shareholders of this project are China Merchant Holdings (International) Co.
Ltd., Aitken Spence PLC Consortium and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority. The project Company is Colombo
International Container Terminals Ltd. The total investment of the project is to be around US$ 500 Mn.,
and such project is in the national interest and is of economic and social benefit to the Country ;
(2) Declare that the date of commencement of the aforesaid project will be the Effective Date as stated in the
Build Operate and Transfer Agreement (BOT)  ; and
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act,
the exemptions set out in the Schedule to this Notification shall apply to the project company and to
subcontractors approved by the Project Company.
SCHEDULE
(a) The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006
A twenty five (25) year corporate income tax holiday period under the Inland Revenue Act, commencing
from either the first year in which the Company makes taxable profit or two (2) years after commencement
of commercial operations, whichever falls first. For avoidance of doubt, it is to be noted that the general tax
regime then prevailing shall be applicable in relation to the Company implementing the project after the
expiration of the twenty five (25) years as setout above. The company shall be exempted from the payment
of withholding tax, on interest of foreign loans taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees to
consultants employed in the project.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.04.2011
2A
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
The tax on dividend distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be exempted from income tax during the
said twenty five (25) years tax exemption period and one (01) year thereafter,
A five (05) years tax exemption from PAYE tax shall be applicable for a maximum number of twenty (20)
expatriate staff of the Project Company.
(b) The  Value Added Tax (V AT) Act, No. 14 of 2002.
The payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) on the importation of project related goods and the local purchases
of project related goods and services during the implementation/construction period of the project or five
(05) years whichever is less from the date of the agreement will be differed. Thereafter the payment of V AT
will be zero rated if the services provided fall within the provisions of paragraphs (b) or (c) of subsection
(1) of section 7 of the V AT Act. Any other services, other than the services which are zero rated, will be
liable to V AT at the normal rate.
(c) The Port and Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
Shall not be applicable during the project implementation/construction period.
(d) Nation Building Tax Act, No. 10 of 2011
Shall not be applicable for a total period of seven (07) years effective from the Effective Date of the
commencement implementation/construction of the project as stated in the Build Operate and Transfer
Agreement (BOT).
(e) The Finance  Act,  No. 5 of  2005.
Shall not be applicable for the payment of construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy during the project
implementation/construction period.
(f) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all capital goods imported in the name of the Company
implementing the project in relation to items so imported solely for the purpose of the Project other than the
items mentioned in the Negative List. However items in the Negative List will be considered if quantity and
quality of such goods are not available in the local market.
B
ASIL ROHANA RAJAPAKSA, MP,
Minister of Economic Development.
Colombo,
 30th  April  2011.
05-344