

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1059
wxl 1"783 - 2012 fkdjeïn¾ 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'11'02
No. 1,783  – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 02, 2012
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Statements of Revenue & Expenditure ... —
Budgets ... 1077
Miscellaneous Notices ... 1077
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... 1060
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 1065
By-Laws ... 1067
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
1059
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd November, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th
November, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,782 of 25.10.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1060
Posts – Vacant
PRADESHIYA  SABHA  – ALAWWA
Recruitment of Semi Technical Posts in Grade III
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified permanent residents within the jurisdiction of Pradeshiya Sabha Alawwa to the recruitment of
Semi Technical Posts for the Pradeshiya Sabha Alawwa.
Name of the Number Salary Scale Education Qualifications V ocational Experience
Post of Qualifications
Posts
01. Driver 01 (In terms of For External candidates :
G . A. C. 6/2006 IV) Should have passed at least Should have obtained Should have 03
PL - 2006A 06 subjects at the G . C. E. the certificate of years experience as
Rs. 12,210- 10x130- (O/L) Exam in not more competency issued a drives (should be
10x145- 10x160- than two sittings with by the Commissioner proved by
12x170 - Rs. 18,860 credits for 2 subjects. of Motor Traffic for certificates)
should have passed at driving Motor vehicles
least 05 subjects (except exceeding 34 hundreds
optional subjects) in one gross weight and
sitting heavy trailers and
buses which could
For Internal candidates : carry more than 32
Candidates who are passengers
already employed in a
permanent post at the
relevant institute in the
Provincial Public Service
should have passed at
least Grade 8 (year 9) in a
school approved by the
Government.
02. Working Overseer 01 P/A/C. 6/2006 IV) For external candidates :
PL 2-2006A Should have passed at Should have obtained Should have at
Rs. 12,210-10x130 - least 02 subjects (except a Proficiency practical
10x145 -10x160- optional subjects) at the certificate at N. V . Q. experience of 2
12x170 - Rs. 18,860 G. C. E. O/L Examination level 2 or 3 from years in the
the authority of relevant field at a
professional training recognized
For internal candidates : relevant to the post institute (except
Candidates who are already the period of
employed in a permanent relevant training).
post at the relevant institute (Should be proved
in the Provincial Public by service
Service should have passed certificates).
at least Grade 8 (Year 9) in
a school approved by the
Government.
03. Library Assistant 01
04. Road Labourer 08 P/A/C. 6/2006 IV) Should have passed at least
PL 1-2006A 02 subjects at the G . C. E.
Rs. 11,730- 10x120- O/L Examination
05. Office Labourer 01 10x130 -10x145 -
12x 160 - Rs. 17,600

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1061
06. Health Labourer 08 P/A/C. 6/2006 IV) Should have passed at least
PL 1-2006A Grade 8 (year 9) in a
Rs. 11,730- 10x120- school approved by the
10x130 -10x145 - Government
12x 160 - Rs. 17,600
07. Other Qualifications Required :
(i) The Candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) The Candidate should be a permanent resident within the jurisdiction of Pradeshiya Sabha Alawwa within a period not less
than 3 years immediately prior to the closing date of applications (Should be proved by the Electroal Register or Certificate
of residence issued by the Divisional Secretary) ;
(iii) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age on the closing date. (The maximum age limit will not be
applicable for the permanent employees employed in Public Service or Provincial Public Service) ;
(iv) Candidates should not be convicted of any offence by a Court of Law ;
(v) Should have an excellent character and physically in good health ;
08. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates who face the interview will be recruited according to their educational qualifications and
on results of an oral test. For the post of Driver candidates should sit the written exam conducted by the Department of Motor Traffic.
09. Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and subject to 3 years probationary period.
(ii) In addition to these conditions of recruitment, employees recruited should abide by the conditions in the Minutes of Service
approved by the Hon. Governor of the North Western Province and Financial Regulations, Department orders and
regulations and orders issued by the North Western Provincial Council or Provincial Public Service Commission in the
North Western Province.
10. Submission of Application :
(i) Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen form indicated at the end of this notification should be sent under
the registered post to "Secretary, Pradeshiya Sabha, Alawwa" to be received on or before 23.11.2012.
(ii) The post applied for should be written clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
(iii) Copies of following certificates should be enclosed with the application :
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Educational Certificate ;
(c) School leaving Certificate ;
(d) Certificate of residence of Divisional Secretary (should have been countersigned by the Divisional Secretary) ;
(e) 02 character certificates issued recently ;
(f) Certificates of vocational experience.
Name of the Number Salary Scale Education Qualifications V ocational Experience
Post of Qualifications
Posts

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1062
The Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha Alawwa reserves all rights to delay or alter this recruitment or cancel this notification or amend
it during or after calling applications.
H. A. G . NISHSHANKA,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Alawwa.
Pradeshiya Sabha Alawwa,
Alawwa,
02nd November, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
R
ECRUITMENT FOR THE POSTS OF SEMI TECHNICAL POSTS IN GRADE III IN PRADESHIY A SABHA ALAWWA - 2013
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF .................................
01. Name of the applicant with initials :–––––––––––––––.
02. Name denoted by the initials :–––––––––––––––.
03. Permanent address :–––––––––––––––.
04. Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––––––.
05. Divisional Secretariat division :–––––––––––––––.
06. District :–––––––––––––––.
07. Date of birth :–––––––––––––––.
Year :–––––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––––––.
08. Age to the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––––,  Dates :–––––––––––––––.
09. Sex :–––––––––––––––.
10. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? If so whether it is by decent or by registration ? :–––––––––––––––.
11. Marital status :–––––––––––––––.
12. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––––.
13. Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year and Index Number :–––––––––––––––.
Serial Number Sub ject Pass
01.
02.
03.
04.
05.
06.
07.
08.
14. V ocational and Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––––.
15. Service Experience :
(a) Present working place :–––––––––––––––.
(b) Present post held :–––––––––––––––.
(c) Date of appointment for the above post :–––––––––––––––.
(d) Previous post held and place of work :–––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1063
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I am
aware that if any particular contained herein are found to be false or incorrect in terms of this recruitment procedure, I am liable to dismissed
from the service without any compensation if the inaccuracy is detected after or before the appointment.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––––.
11–10
––––––––––––––––––––––
UDUNUW ARA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Filling Vacancies in the Central Provincial Council Public Services
APPLICATIONS are called for recruitment of following posts on permanent basis in the Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, from qualified Sri
Lankan, living within the administrative limits of Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
SCHEDULE
Serial Name of the Number of Educational and other
No. Post Posts Salary Scale Qu alifications
01 Road Labourers 04 Rs. 11,730-10x120-10x 130- 10x145- 12x160 - 1. Should have passed General
(Grade III) Rs. 17,600. In terms of P. A. Circular Certificate of Education (Ordinary
No. 6/2006/IV, P. L. 1-2006A, Salary scale Level) or National Certificate of
shall be considered as starting salary step General Education (Ordinary Level)
(Efficiency Bar Examination before the minimum 6 subjects including
4th salary scale) Sinhala or Tamil Language, in not
more than two sittings
02 Sanitary Labourer 01 Rs. 11,730-10x120-10x 130- 10x145- 12x160 - Should have passed at least
(Grade III) Rs. 17,600. In terms of P. A. Circular Grade 8 (Year 9) from a school
No. 6/2006/IV, P. L. 1-2006A, Salary scale approved by the Director General
shall be considered as starting salary step of Education
(Efficiency Bar Examination before the
4th salary scale)
03 Library Assistant 01 Rs. 11,730-10x120-10x 130- 10x145- 12x160 - Should have passed minimum six
(Grade III) Rs. 17,600. In terms of P. A. Circular subjects including Sinhala or Tamil
No. 6/2006/IV, P. L. 1-2006A, Salary scale Language in not more than two
shall be considered as starting salary step sittings in the G . C. E. (Ordinary
(Efficiency Bar Examination before the Level) or National Certificate of
4th salary scale) General Education (Ordinary Level)
04 Driver 01 Rs. 12,470-10x130-10x 145- 10x160- 12x170 - Should have passed minimum six
Rs. 18,860. In terms of P. A. Circular subjects including Sinhala or Tamil
No. 6/2006/IV, P. L. 3-2006A, Salary scale Language in not more than two
shall be considered as starting salary step sittings in the G . C. E. (Ordinary
(Efficiency Bar Examination before the Level) or National Certificate of
4th salary scale) General Education (Ordinary Level)
Should possess a driving license
issued by a recognized institution
to drive vehicles should possess 02
years experience as a driver after
obtaining driving license.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1064
2. Other qualifications :
1. Age limit not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years at the closing date of the application, should be established.
Upper age limit is not applicable those who are presently employed on permanent/casual basis in the Central Provincial
Public Service ;
2. Applicants should be a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration ;
3. Residence should be within the Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha administrative limits for a period of immediate 05 years
established ;
4. Applicants should possess excellent moral character and best physical health ;
5. Should not have been convicted by a Court of Law under the Penal Code ;
6. Should not have been dismissed from the Government/Local Government, Statutory Board services and should not a retired
person under Public Administration Circular No. 44/90 ;
7. Special preference will be given to those who serve under substitute basis in the Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha ;
8. Applicants should establish the minimum educational qualifications mentioned against the post.
3. Terms of Employment :
1. These posts are permanent and pensionable ;
2. Contribution should be made to Widow's/Widower's and Orphan's Pension Scheme ;
3. These appointments will be subjected to a period of probation for 03 years ;
4. These posts will belong to the Provincial Public Services and restricted only to related Pradeshiya Sabha.
4. Method of Recruitment :
1. Suitable applicants will be selected by an interview, based on requirements ;
2. The applications should be enclosed with the copies of the following documents and the original certificates should be
forwarded in the interview :
(i) Certificate of birth ;
(ii) Certificates of Educational Qualifications ;
(iii) Certificate of residence, certified by the Divisional Secretary ;
(iv) Two recent character certificates (one should be issued by the Grama Niladhari) ;
(v) Professional or experience certificates, if any. (Those who are employed in Public/Local Government Service, should
submit their applications through the Head of the Department).
3. The applicants who possess prescribed qualifications only called for the interview.
5. Applications :
(i) Applications prepared according to the specimen given below, should be sent to the Secretary, Udunuwara Pradeshiya
Sabha, Gelioya on or before 15.11.2012. The post applied for should be marked clearly on the top left hand corner of the
envelope, enclosing the application.
(ii) Incomplete applications will be rejected.
(iii) The Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha reserve all such powers to delay or alter such recruitment or cancel or amend this
notification after calling applications or during such process.
R. H. M. I. M
ENIKE,
Secretary,
Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha Office,
Gelioya,
10th October, 2012.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1065
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
UDUNUWARA PRADESHIYA SABHA
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF ..................................... IN THE CENTRAL PROVINCE PUBLIC SERVICES
01. (i) Name of the applicant with initials :––––––––––––.
(ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
03. (i) Date of birth :
(ii) Age as at .................. 2012 :
Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
04. Sex : Male/Female :––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
06. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka either by descent or by registration :––––––––––––.
07. Educational qualifications :––––––––––––.
08. If you are already employed in Pradeshiya Sabha, state the period of service and details :––––––––––––.
09. Experience and Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
belief. I am aware that I am liable to be disqualify before the appointment, if the information furnished by me are found to be false as per the
condition of recruitment and I am liable to dismiss without any compensation, if it is detected after selection to the post.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department (applicable for those who are already in Public Service)
The applicant is presently employed as ........................................ and his information mentioned above are correct.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature,
Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
11–20
AMBALANGODA  URBAN  COUNCIL
Property Rates for the year 2013
THIS is to inform that, according to the Council consent at the
monthly Council Meeting of Ambalangoda Urban Council held on
04.09.2012 the below mentioned fees will be charged under the
Council Resolution No. 5:1:4.
It is hereby notified that by virtue of powers vested in it under
sections 160(3) and 160(1) respectively of the Urban Councils
Local Government Notifications
Ordinance (Chapter 255), the Ambalangoda Urban Council has
subject to such alterations, conditions and exceptions as may be
deemed necessary, imposed for the year 2013 a property rate of
twelve percent (12%) of the annual value on all properties used for
any trading or commercial purposes and a rate of eight percent
(8%) of the annual value on all other immovable properties within
the area of authority of the Council. These rates may be paid in full
in a single installment or in four equal installments quarterly on or
before 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December,
2013.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1066
02. In terms of section 12 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979 the following discounts will be
allowed if the above mentioned rates are paid in full in the manner
stated here under.
(a) A discount of ten percent (10%) if the annual rates are
paid in full on or before 31st January, 2013.
(b) A discount of five percent (5%) of the quarterly rates
paid within the first month of the rlevant quarter if the
rates are paid quarterly.
03. Those who fail to pay the rates on due dates will be liable to
a warrant cost of twenty percent (20%) in respect of commercial
properties and fifteen percent (15%) on all other properties.
M. W. A
RUNA PRADEEP,
Attorney-at-law
Chairman,
Ambalangoda Urban Council.
At the office of the Ambalangoda Urban Council,
On 10th day of October, 2012.
11–16
––––––––––––––––
WATTALA - MABOLE  URBAN  COUNCIL
By-Law Regarding Solid Waste Management and Implementing same for Eradication of Mosquitoes and other Diseases
causing insects within the area of Urban Council
W ATTALA-Mabole Urban Council hereby informs that as proposed by Hon. Chairman Mr. A. H. M. Naushad and seconded by Hon.
Member of the Council, Mr. P. P. S. Ravindra at the meeting held on 31.07.2012, it is approved to accept and implement the By-l aw for
Solid Waste Management and By-law for eradication of mosquitoes and other diseases causing insects within the area of Urban Council,
from the date of publication in the gazette of the approved By-law under the Local Government (approved By-law) Act, Section 3, sub-
section 1,  prepared by Minister-in-charge for Local Government in the Provincial Council of Western Province, by virtue of pow er
vested upon by Provincial Council (constituent provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, Section 2, sub-section 1 paragraph (A) read wit h
authority 261 of Local Government Authorities (approved By-law) Act, No. 6 of 1952, Section 2, Sub-section 1 and published in t he
gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 1,713/11 date 05.07.2011.
A. H. M. N AUSHAD,
Chairman,
Wattala-Mabole Urban Council,
Wattala.
11–81
––––––––––––––––
WATTALA - MABOLE  URBAN  COUNCIL
Butchers  Ordinance (Chapter 272)
IN terms of Section No. 7(2) Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272) it is hereby notified that the person referred to in the following schedule
have applied for a license for the period from 01.01.2013 to 31.12.2013 conduct slaughter house at the place indicated against there names
and that if any person residing within the limits of Wattala-Mobole Urban Council objects to the issue of this license the reasons for such
objection in detail should be forwarded in writing to me in duplicate by registered post within the period of 14 days from the date of
publications of this notice in the Gazette.
A. H. M. N AUSHAD,
Chairman,
Wattala-Mabole Urban Council.
Wattala-Mabole Urban Council
12th October, 2012.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1067
SCHEDULE
Serial No. Name and Address Business Place of Business
01 M. C. M. Shabdeen, To conduct a slaughter house No. 41/12, Delgahawatta,
No. 756, Negombo Road, Wattala Mabole, Wattala.
11–203
MINUWANGODA  URBAN  COUNCIL
The by-laws related to eradication of mosquitoes and
Disease causing Insects within the Urban Council area
IT is hereby announced hereby that the resolution in respect of by-
laws on eradication of mosquitoes and disease causing insects
management that published on extraordinary gazette  No. 1713/11
dated 05th July 2011 depicted in the following schedule No. 02
prepared by the Provincial Minister in-charge under the second
Section of the Local Bodies (endorsed by-laws) Act, No. 6 of  1952
to be read with the second Section of the Provincial Council Act
(related provisions) was unanimously adopted for taking effect in
accordance with the Section 03 of the said Act at the Council’s
General meeting held on 26.03.2012.
It is further notified that the said by-laws shall be enforced and
Implemented within the Minuwangoda Urban Council jurisdiction
from the date on which this announcement is published in the
Gazette.
K. F
EDRICK ALAHAKOON,
Chairman,
Urban Council - Minuwangoda.
Urban Council - Minuwangoda,
15th October 2012.
1. These by-laws may be cited as the by-laws for the
Improvement of the environmental conditions within the
area of authority of Urban Council by the prevention of
mosquito breeding and disease inflicting insect breeding
and for the prevention of epidemics within such area of
authority.
2. No person shall do any Act or cause any Act to be done
within the area of authority of any Urban Council which
may cause the breeding of or facilitating the breeding of
mosquitoes or any other disease inflicting insects.
By-Laws
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any
premises whether resident or non resident within the area
of authority of the Urban council to cause.
(i) Opened tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tires, coconut
shells, split coconuts and any other article or receptacle
or vessel found within such premises to be removed
or destroyed,
(ii) Gutters, down pipes and drain within such premises
to be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure
smooth flow of water.
(iii) All water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water
to be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so
as to make them mosquito - proof and insect proof
and thereby preventing the mosquito breeding and
disease inflicting insects.
(iv) Any well found in such premises to be maintained
and kept in good repair thereby preventing the
mosquito breeding and disease inflicting insects.
(v) Any artificial pond or pool found in such premises to
be emptied and cleaned at least once a week
(vi) Measures shall be taken to prevent water getting
collected in drains found in such premises by allowing
free flow of water and with regular maintenance.
(vii) Shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation
other than those grown for the purpose of food or for
ornamental purposes and found within a range of five
loss meters from any building within such premises
which  is used as a dwelling place, to be removed in
entirety.
(viii) All Quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any
other pits within such premises and use for any other
purpose, to be maintained in a manner so as to prevent
water getting collected In them.
(ix) The removal and destruction of land grown ornamental
plants and aquatic plants commonly known as "Diya

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1068
Parandel" , "Penda Pasi", "Tel Pasi" or any other
plants or aquatic plants found Within such premises
which may facilitate the breeding of mosquitoes and
disease inflicting insects and prevention of the floating
of such plants on any water course by erection of
suitable barriers.
(x) Any latrine, ditch. sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits
found in such premises and their surroundings to be
maintained and kept in good repair so as to make it
mosquito proof and prevent the breeding of mosquito.
(xi) T ake necessary measures to prevent water getting
collected in the monuments built in cemeteries or in
any other places within such area.
4. The mayor of the Urban Council or any officer authorized
in writing by him /her may at anytime of the day between
6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p.m. enter any premises within the area
of authority of the Urban Council and Inspect such premises
to ensure the following
(i) Whether such premises is a breeding place of
mosquitoes,
(ii)  Whether the occupier of such premises has complied
with the provisions of the by-laws,
(iii) Whether measure have to be taken to prevent the
breeding and destroy mosquitoes what such measures
are,  and
(iv) Whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises
was a success.
5. (i) The mayor or any officer authorized in writing for the
purposes by him/ her may after inspecting the premises.
if necessary, require the owner or occupier of such
premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary
to destroy mosquitoes and eradicate the conditions
favorable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner of occupier of a premises to whom a written
notices was given under para (i) shall comply with such
notices within the period specified in such notice.
6.  (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of  any
premises shall, without the written approval of the
mayor, construct any well, tank, pond, water receptacle,
ornamental showers or any other structure where water
can get collected or stored.
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the
provisions of para (i) of this by-law, the mayor shall by
a written notice served on the owner or occupier of
such premises, require him to fill up such well, tank,
pond, water receptacle, ornamental shower or structure
with specified material or destroy or alter same in the
manner specified in the such notice within the period
specified in such notice.
7. (i) Any article the by-law 5 or 6 may be either duly served
by delivering them personally to owner or occupier of
the premises or by affixing such notice in a conspicuous
place In such premises.
(ii) Where more than two co-owners are in joint possession
of any premises and if notice specified in by-law 5 or 6
duly served on one of them, all the co-owners are jointly
and severally liable for falling to comply With the
requirements Of such notice or for non performance of
the requirement of such notice.
(iii) Where the owner occupier of any premises on whom a
written notice has been served under by-laws 5 or 6,
fails to comply with the requirements of such written
notice, the mayor or any other officer authorized for the
purpose by him /her in writing may, enter such premises
at an reasonable time of the day between 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
with any assistants or servants and carry out or cause to
be carried out the work of measures specified In such
notice.
(iv) Where any work or measures specified in a written notice
served on any other owner or occupier of any premises
under the by-law 5 or 6 has been carried out by the
mayor or any officer authorized by him in writing the
expenses Incurred In carrying out such work shall be
payable to the Urban Council by such owner or occupier
of such premises. The owner or occupier of the premises
in question shall, within fourteen days from the date of
a request under the hand of the mayor for the payment
of such expenses make such payment to then Urban
Council and if he/ she fails to make such payment as
requested the provisions of the part 8 of the Urban
Council ordinance shall be applicable.
8. Any person who contravenes of any of provision of the
by-laws shall be guilty of offence as per the Urban Council
ordinance.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these by-laws
"Owner" shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or
any person who has any right to rent or produce of
the produces.
"Occupier"  shall mean a person in occupation of any
premises or having the charge, management or control
thereof whether on his/her own account or as an agent
of any other.
"Premise"  shall mean any land, house, building or any
other construction or any  well being used or abandoned
or any abandoned ship, container or vehicle and  also
includes any pond, tank or any bank of any lake,
water course, drain or river.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1069
"Authorized officer" shall mean any officer in the Urban
Council authorized in writing by the mayor of the
Urban Council.
"Infectious insects" shall mean mosquitoes and other
insects carrying diseases.
"Chairman" shall mean the mayor of the urban council
concerned.
"Council" shall mean the Minuwangoda Urban Council.
11-111/1
–––––––––––––––––––
MINUWANGODA  URBAN  COUNCIL
The standard By-laws on Solid Waste Management
IT is hereby announced hereby that the resolution in respect of
By-laws for solid waste management bearing No. 1713/11 published
on Extra ordinary Gazette dated 05 July 2011 L depicted in the
following Schedule No. 01 prepared by the Provincial Minister-in-
charge under the Second Section of the Local Bodies (endorsed By-
laws) Act No. 6 of 1952 to be read with the  Second Section of the
provincial Council  Act was unanimously adopted for taking effect
in accordance with the Section 03 of the said Act at the Council’s
General meeting held on 26.03.2012.
It is further notified that the said By-laws shall be enforced and
implemented within the Minuwangoda Urban Council jurisdiction
from the date on which this announcement is published in the
Gazette.
K. F
EDRICK ALAHAKOON,
Chairman.
Urban Council - Minuwangoda,
15th October 2012.
GENERAL
1.  These By-laws are cited as By-laws related to Waste
Management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection, and control of segregation, storage, collection.
transportation, operation and maintenance of transfer
stations, processing, treatment and disposal of solid waste
generated in public places, private premises, at streets,
thoroughfares, with the Urban Council limits and all other
incidental activities thereto.
3. The owner or occupier of any premises situated within the
Council area shall keep the premises free of waste and in a
healthy and pleasant condition.
4. The owner or occupier of any premises situated within the
area of the Council shall collect, segregate, store, transport
and remove the solid waste generated within the premises
or cause to do so in accordance with the provisions of these
By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of any premises shall collect
solid waste generated within his/her own premises daily
or lesser intervals if required, by sweeping or using any
other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding Sub section of this By-laws in accordance
With the provisions of By-law No. 08 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put out
for collection under the provisions of By-laws 08 to 20
shall be maintained in good condition and not put out
for collection, if they are torn, punctured broken or
softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for
any other reason, they are likely to collapse or split
when reasonably handled, Council may provide such
receptacles if they so wish subsidizing the cost in part
or in full according to a decision made by this Council.
(iv) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in Sub section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
schedule, operated in the Council area, as determined
and publicity notified from time to time by the Council.
(v) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental, injurious or
unhealthy to occupants visitors or neighbours, or to the
sanitary conditions of that area.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street road,
thoroughfare, land, avenue, or any other public place or
premise or a drain or a water way water reservoir of the
area.
(ii) No person shall burn waste by damaging the
environment in an open space within the Urban Council
area.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the Provisions of By-law No. 7 to discharge
treat process or dispose or any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an Authorized Collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-law 7 or waste not collected by an
authorized collector under the provisions of (iii) above
shall be removed in accordance with the provisions or
By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1070
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose
the waste within such premises but ;
(a) In areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Council, or
(b) Certain types of waste specified by the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises my burn waste
in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed
in accordance with a plan and standard approved by the
Secretary, or treat process has sufficient space in the
premises to maintain the equipment.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier makes a request to the
secretary for "compost barrel", the Secretary may
supply such equipments subsidizing the cost in part or
in full provided the owner or occupier have sufficient
space in the premises to maintain the equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the garden waste collected within the premises
concerned in a manner approved by the secretary as far
as practicable. Such owner or occupier shall handover
to waste collector of the Urban Council any residual
garden waste on payment of a fee as determined by the
Urban Council from time to time taking into
consideration the nature of the disposing waste to the
secretary.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or a plant by
the road side of a street, thoroughfare, shall remove
them or cause them to be removed forthwith.
(vi) Every person shall take stops to prevent any animal
under his/her control to pass excreta in a street,
thoroughfare or in a public place. If excreta passed that
person shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta
and disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to
20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street thoroughfare or public place
within the Urban Council area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house
or any other premises shall include in his/her application
details of solid waste generated in his premises and the
manner of storing or processing of discharged material.
RESIDENTIAL  PREMISES
8. (i)  Every owner or occupier of premises shall separate the
waste collected by sweeping or by any other method as
follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste
(b) Refusable and recyclable waste
(c) Hazardous waste
(d) Animal carcasses, bodily parts or dung
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
premises
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the separated waste
into bags, bins or other receptacles and place them in
the areas reserved for this purpose until removal. Food
waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be kept in a
receptacle made of an impermeable material Which will
be properly closed preventing the entry of rats, insects
and animals. Waste of animal carcasses body parts or
dung shall be handed over to the municipal waste collector
without delay following the payment of fee to the
secretary as determined by the Council from time to
time in time for the Council area taking into consideration
of nature of the disposable waste.
(iii) Every occupier may hand over to an authorized
collector, types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of
para (i)  in case the occupier fails to do so, he/ she shall
together with the type of waste specified in Item (c)
hand over to a council waste collector or deposit them
in bins constructed for each waste type placed by the
Council or in bins or receptacles provided by the Council
for such waste materials.
9. Every owner or occupier of each residence in multi-storied
building with a number of tenements, shall separate their
waste as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio - degradable waste
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste
(c) Hazardous waste
(d) Animal carcasses, bodily parts or dung
(e) Dust or other dry waste collected after sweeping the
premises
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in para
(i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved
by the Secretary and shall maintain them in a clean
and sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
Sub section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub section (ii) the Secretary has the power to require
the owner or occupier or the said building to provide
such bins or receptacles on or before a given date set
by the Secretary and it is the duty of the owner to act
in accordance with the requirements of the secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall
put separated waste into the appropriate bin or
receptacle.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1071
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not moved,
together with types of waste type (e) shall be handed
over to a council waste collector.
10. (i) It is lawful for the Secretary to provide waste bins or
receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after
obtaining prior approval of the Urban Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all
collected waste from his/her place of residence
separated as follows in to the nearest approved bins
or receptacles supplied to his/her place of resident.
(a) Food waste and other bio - degradable waste
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste
(c) Hazardous waste
(iii) The secretary has power to permit a waste collector
to remove types of waste specified in terms (a) and
(b) of Sub section (ii) of this by-law. Any such waste
not removed, together With types of waste of type
(c) and (d) shall be handed over to a waste collector.
SHOPS  AND  OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
separate waste collected in each complex as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio - degradable waste
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste
(c) Hazardous waste
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises
(ii) The separated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removed.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or office may hand
over types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of
sub section (i) of this By-law to an authorized waste
collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office complex
with several storeys and floors shall provide the
required number of waste bins or receptacles for each
shop or office in accordance with the standards
approved by the secretary for disposing or collecting
separated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put separated
waste in to separate ‘bins or receptacles. Every owner
of occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized
waste collector, type of waste specified in terms (a)
and (b) in Sub section (i) of this By-law.
(vi) Types of waste specified in item (i) and any type  of
waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub section (i)
of this By-law, that are not collected by an authorized
collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier
as the case may to the Council’s waste collector.
following a payment of fee to the secretary by the
owner or occupier as the case may be determined by
the Urban Council from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of
any shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste
bins or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not
to cause any health or sanitation problem to neighbours
or persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Office" has the same meaning given for shops and
office employees Act No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter
129)
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop, or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office,
"Shop" means place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail sale and includes a place where food or
beverages are kept for sale, and a place where a
barber shop or a beauty salon is operated.
HOTELS
12.  (i) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him/her in
writing shall separate waste collected in each complex
as follows.
(a) Food waste and other bio - degradable waste
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste
(c) Hazardous waste
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him/her in
writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles in
separated waste and store in a suitable place until
removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him/her in
writing shall pack in a bin or other receptacle made of
plastic or metal properly secured with a lid, all food
waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry
of flies, rats, insects or any other animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) in sub
section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1072
(v) Any such waste not handed over under sub section
(iv) of this by-law types of waste specified in term (i)
shall be handed over to the Council’s waste collector
on payment of fee by the owner or occupier to the
secretary as determined by the Council from time to
time taking into consideration the nature of waste.
(vi) For the purpose this by-law unless the context
otherwise require, "hotel" means a place with or
without accommodation facilities where food /
beverage are supplied for consumption on payment
of money and It Includes a restaurant. guest house,
lodging house, rest house, pilgrim’s rest and curry
boutique, cafeteria and any other premises in which a
business is carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.
VEGETABLES  AND  FRUIT  STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or
fruit store shall  separate the waste  collected within
his/her own premises as follows.
(a) Food waste and other bio - degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d)  Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii)  Types of waste specified in item (a) of sub section (i)
of this by-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle
made of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be
secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats,
insects or any other animals. Other waste shall be put
into any suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of
sub section (i) of this by-law, that are not collected by
an authorized collector shall be handed over by the
owner or occupier as the case may to the Council’s
waste collector, following a payment of fee to the
secretary by the owner or occupier as the case may be
determined by the Urban Council from time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this by-law, unless the context
otherwise requires “Vegetables and fruit store” means
a place where vegetable and fruit are stored and Kept
or exposed for sale.
MEAT, FISH, POULTRY AND EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other
than those permitted under the provision of the
Butchers’ ordinance in term of a license issued by the
secretary for that purpose at the places specified
therein.
(ii) Every license issued under sub section (i) of this by-
law shall specify the type of animals or birds that can
be slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter
house shall be constructed and conditions relating to
cleaning and removal of blood intestines and other
parts not taken for human consumption and other
condition the Council may think fit.
(iii) The secretary  may charge a fee determined by the
Council from time to time for the Issue of a license
under sub section (i) of this by-law payable at the
time of issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of
a stall for the sale of meat, fish or eggs shall separate
their waste as follows.
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not
suitable for human consumption,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(v) The separated waste shall be placed in a separate bins
or receptacles. Types of waste specified in item (a) of
sub section (iv) of this by-law shall be placed inside
an impermeable receptacle and shall be secured
properly preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of
sub section (i) of this by-law, that are not collected by
an authorized collector shall be handed over by the
owner or occupier as the case may to the Council’s
waste collector, following a payment of fee to the
secretary by the owner or occupier as the case may be
determined by the Urban Council from time to time
before the spreading of foul order.
(vii) For the purpose of this by-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "meat, fish or egg stall" means a
place where such items are stored for the purpose of
sale or kept or exposed for sale.
PA VEMENT HAWKING
15. (i) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generate waste shall keep a bin or receptacle for such
waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the secretary. Any such waste shall not
be put on pavement or highway in a public place.
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way ·to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrians.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1073
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall separate waste generated
by the reason of his/ her business as follows.
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste.
(iv) The separated waste shall be put into separate bins or
other receptacles. Types of waste specified in item
(a) of sub section (iii) of this by-law that may be eaten
by insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a
secured receptacle which shall be kept closed except
when required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily
such types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of
sub section (iii)of this by-law to an authorized collector
or together with such types of waste as specified in
item (e) of sub section (iii) of this by-law to a council’s
waste Collector. The receptacles with waste shall not
be kept, on a pavement or roadside or highway, when
the business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined
by the Urban Council from time to time before waste
bins or other receptacles are handed over to a Council’s
waste collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this by-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "pavement hawker" means a
person who sells goods or provides a service on the
pavement or road side.
FACTORIES
16. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste that generated by such factory within the said
factory premises and separate them as follows.
(a) bio - degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in terms (a), (b) of sub section
(i) of this by-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any waste not so handed over, shall be
handed over to the Council’s waste collector, on a
payment of fee as determined by the Urban Council
from time to time, to the secretary.
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the
conditions set out in the Environmental Protection
License issued under the National Environment Act
No. 47 of 1980 for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this by-law. unless the context
otherwise requires. "Factory" carries the same meaning
as in the Factories Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (chapter
128)
EXCAV A TION, CONSTRUCTION AND
DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure
shall store such waste so generated within the premises
or in a place approved by the Secretary until removal
of such waste from such premises in an appropriate
manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in the sub section (i) of this by-
law shall be handed over to a Council waste collector
on a payment of a fee to the Secretary as determined
by the Council from time to time.
(iii) In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires.
"For the purpose of this by-law, every person engaged
in an act of excavation, construction or demolition"
includes any person engaged for such service by
an employer
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and
waste generated during demolition of any
construction.
18. (i) Any person who excavates any street road or any
public place for the purpose of providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone facilities or any other
public amenities shall obtain prior approval from the
Secretary.
(ii) The secretary shall take into consideration the
arrangements made by the applicant of the removal of
waste, the quantity of waste that may be kept
temporary on the road or in a public place after
completion of the proposed Job, and the const of
removal of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do
so prior to giving approval under sub section (i) the
applicant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent
to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is
granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1074
the secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred
may be set off from the money deposited under sub-
section (ii).
HOSPITALS
19. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste that generated by such factory within the said
factory premises and separate them as follows.
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste, excluding type of waste Item
(d) In this sub section,
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) under
sub section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waster specified In Items (c) and (d) of sub-section (I)
shall be deposited in bins or any other receptacles
specially made for the said purpose, an d kept in a
place set apart for that, and shall be removed in
accordance With the conditions set out In the
Environment Protection license Issued to that hospital
under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) Types of waste specified in terms (a), (b) of subsection
(i) of this by-law, shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to the Municipal waster collector
following the payment of fees as determined by the
Urban Council from time to time, to the secretary.
(iv) In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception,
nursing and treatment of persons or animals
suffering from any Illness or Infirmity and Includes
a nursing home, clinic, medical centre, medical
laboratory, maternity home and veterinary hospital,
" Hazardous health care waste" means clinical waste,
bodily parts, placentas, infectious and highly
infectious waste and sharps.
OTHER  PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified
in by-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes
and operates with the participation of the public, a
religious, social, cultural or educational activity or due
to maintenance of such and establishment as follows.
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
premises.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in sub section
(i) shall inform Urban Council in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection
may be subjected to a fee as determined by the Urban
Council from time to time.
(iii) The separated waste shall be packed in to separate
receptacles and stored in suitable places until removal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in terms (a), (b) of sub section
(i) of this by-law, shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to the Municipal waster collector, along
with the type of waste specified in item (c) of sub
section (i), on payment of fees as determined by the
Urban Council from time to time.
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) The secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval  of the Urban council shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer
the following :
(a)  maintain in a clean and sanitary condition of the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public
drains, watercourses and public markets situated
with the urban Council area.
(b) To provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets
or roads and in all public places.
(c) To provide mobile waste bins for use in public
places, at festivals, special events or any other
event as determined by the Urban Council where
the Council decides to do so, or following
requests thereto from organizers of such festival
or special event.
(d) To maintain a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed In residential areas
and remove the waste deposited therein before It
becomes a nuisance to nearby residents.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1075
(e) To investigate any complaint received in respect
of the activities specified in the preceding sections
and take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste
bins provided by the Urban Council specifically for
litter.
DUTIES OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
22. (i) The secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Urban Council shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer
the following.
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse, and recycle
waste
(b) to conduct awareness promoting programmes or
propagandas through mass media in relation to
separation, collection, storage, discharge and
disposal of waste
(c) to assist individuals and micro - enterprises
engaged in reuse and recycling activities.
(d} To offer incentives to those engage in the
reduction, reuse and recycle activities.
(e) To regulate different types of waste discharge
system.
(f) To prepare a waste collection schedule setting
out collection days, times, methods and fees as
determined by the Urban Council for different
types of waste in various areas or the urban
Council. This schedule shall be publicity notified
by the Council. It may include conditions for
collection on public holidays.
(g) To collect any separated waste, not handed over
to authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule.
(h) To transport in a sanitary manner, hazardous
waste and any other waste, that has been handed
over to schedule.
(i) To hand over to an authorized collector- waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning of drains
and the cleaning of public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected
by Urban Council labourers except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary.
(j) To take appropriate measures to deal with
separated waste collected by the Urban Council
waste collectors, including arrangements for the
processing and treatment of part or all foods and
other bio-degradable, re-usable and recyclable
waste as much as practicable and to dispose of
the rejects from such operations and other
residual waste of these types in a manner
approved by the Secretary.
(k) To dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the secretary in consultation with
the Central Environmental Authority.
(l) To obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license
of the environmental protection license to burn
waste to maintain a sanitary landfill.
(m) To provide appropriate, clothing, hand gloves,
mouth covers and boot to every employee engaged
in sweeping, collection, separation, transport.
transfer and disposal of waste.
(n) To check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid generated on construction or
renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of ruble at the initial stage on the
completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Urban Council
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises
(o) To prepare an internal waste management Plan
for all Urban Council premises.
(p) To prepare and Implement a Solid Waste
Management Action plan in accordance with the
National Waste Management and relevant
legislation which covers at least each calendar
year in detail and three years ahead for final
disposal and such plan shall be approved on a
less frequent basis by the Urban Council according
to the period it covers.
(q) To investigate any complaint received by the
Mayor and the secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items (a) to (P) within three days
for any possible nuisance and within 14 days,
for any other complaint and take action
forthwith.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1076
PERMITS
23. (i) The Urban Council may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste materials or
manufactures compost,  biogas or any other precuts
where any person.
(a) Carries out any business within the Urban
Council area or in any other local authority area,
in terms of the by-laws as approved by the Urban
Council
(b) Processes an Environmental protection License
Issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act No. 47 of 1980
(c) Storage place for collected waste constructed in
accordance with the standards approved by the
Urban Council.
(d) Provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Urban Council and without causing nuisance to
people
(e) Agrees to hand over to residual or reject waste or
any other waste created as by-products during
processing of treatment, to the Urban Council as
approved by the Urban Council on payment of a
fee the Secretary for collection of such waste as
determined by the Urban Council from time to
time, where the business is carried out within the
Urban Council area.
(ii) Where the Urban council refuses or rejects to issue a
permit, the applicant shall be informed in writing of
the reasons for such refusal or rejection within thirty
days of receipt of the application for the permit.
(iii) The secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period
of validity, the type or types of waste permitted to be
collected the permitted area for collection of such
waste  and any other appropriate conditions.
(iv) The Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under
this by-law in the event non compliance of the
provisions of sub-section (i) of this by-law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of sub-section (iv). In
such event the secretary shall give sufficient publicity
through media in order to bring awareness to the people
of the revocation of the permit.
WASTE  DISPOSAL  AREAS
24. No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb
or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste
disposal area reserved by the Urban Council for that
purpose no deposit any prohibited refuse which the Urban
Council from time to time may stipulate unless authorized
by the Urban Council subject to certain specified
conditions.
25. No person shall provide, operate or use any land or facility
for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside
the land or facility within the Urban Council limits except
with the prior written approval of the urban Council and
the Central Environmental Authority subject to any
conditions of approval.
OTHER
26. (i) The secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power, at all reasonable time to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the
owner or occupier acts in conformity with the
provisions of these by-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or an assistant authorized officer in the exercise
of his/her powers under these by-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer
who implements and enforce these by-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Urban
Council from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these
by-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the Urban
Council Ordinance.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these by-laws, unless context otherwise
requires -
"Sanitary land fill" means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
"Owner of occupier" includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
11-111/2

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1077
Budgets
DEHIWALA-MT. LA VINIA   MUNICIPAL   COUNCIL
Program Budget – 2013
IT is notified that under section 212 of the Municipal Council Ordinance (Chapter 252) the budget for the year 2013 of Dehiwala -Mt.
Lavinia Municipal Council is open for public inspection at this office during working hours from 12th November, 2012 to 18th November,
2012.
DANASIRI AMARATHUNGA,
Mayor,
Dehiwela-Mt. Lavinia Municipal Council.
Dehiwela-Mt. Lavinia Municipal Council,
18th October, 2012.
11–158
Miscellaneous Notices
AMBALANGODA  URBAN  COUNCIL
Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255)
The Displaying of Advertisements
THIS is to inform that, according to the Council consent at the
monthly council meeting of Ambalangoda Urban Council held on
04.09.2012 the below mentioned fees will be charged under the
Council Resolution No. 5:1:5.
It is hereby notified that in terms of the provisions of the By-
laws made on advertisements by the Ambalangoda Urban Council
under the Section 153, 154 and 167 of the Urban Council Ordinance,
it has resolved to levy the charges set out in the following Schedule
for the year 2013.
M. W. A
RUNA PRADEEP,
Chairman,
Ambalangoda Urban Council.
At the office of the Ambalangoda Urban Council,
On 10th day of October, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Rs. cts.
For a square foot for a period of 1-2 weeks 40  0
For a square foot for a period of 2 weeks to 1 month 50  0
For a square foot for temporary advertisements 100 0
  more than 01 month up to 01 year
For a square foot for permanent advertisement - 100 0
01 year period
For Advertising Boards those not taken prior approval before
displayed or displayed without approval, will be surcharged 25%
of advertisement charges as an extra penalty at the time of payment.
11–18
–––––––––––––––––
AMBALANGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Acreage Taxes for the year 2013
IN terms of the Section 134(3) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 it is hereby notified that an acreage tax charged on each
hectare of the permanent or regular cultivated land situated within
the jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha Ambalangoda add this may
be paid on four quarters equalty ending on 31st June, September
and 30th December, 2013 respectively.
(a) In the terms of the Section 134(7) a rebate of 10% will be
allowed if annual rates for year 2013 are paid in full on
or before 31st January.
(b) Fees must be paid before the start of the month quarter
to quarter occasion will offer 5% discount.
K. P
USHPALAL KUMARASINGHA,
Chairman,
 Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
11–21/4

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1078
AMBALANGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
IN terms of the Section 154(1) of Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987 it is hereby a tax equal it of proceeds of sale of
and situated with in the limits of Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha if
such land is sold by Public Auction or other wise by an auctioneer
or broker may be paid one percent (1%) tax of sold value to the
Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
K. P
USHPALAL KUMARASINGHA,
Chairman,
 Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
11–21/5
–––––––––––––––
AMBALANGODA  URBAN  COUNCIL
THIS is to inform that, according to the Council consent at the
monthly Council Meeting of Ambalangoda Urban Council held on
04.09.2012 the below mentioned fees will be charged under the
Council Resolution No. 5:1:3.
Schedule No. 01
Including of
Government
approved tax
Rs. cts.
Sale of Application :
01. Summary of deed - application 350  0
02. Building application forms 500  0
03. Sub-division land lots application 400  0
04. For dangerous tree application 600  0
05. Build for charges application 300  0
06. For certificate of conformity 400  0
01. Vitrayka certificate per one - Business 500  0
                       - Mixed 1,000  0
                       - Residence 750  0
02. No objection certificate 500  0
03. Title report certify for the charges 500  0
04. Loss for the recited certify charges 250  0
05. Other certificate copy charges 400  0
06. Environments searching license 400  0
07. Environmental 3 years license charges 4,000  0
08. Assesses tax for more than one years issuing –
One year creche charge 22 50
Certificate of copy issuing change 7 50
09. Environment sekairt license change 50  0
10. Environment sekairt renuwel application 50  0
M. W. A
RUNA PRADEEP,
Chairman,
Ambalangoda Urban Council.
10th October, 2012.
11–17
AMBALANGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition of the license fees under the Environment
Act, No. 47 of 1980
IN terms of powers vested under the section 26 of the Environment
Act No. 47 of 1980 amended by the Act, No. 56 of 1988 and Act,
No.53 of 2000 it is hereby notified that under the provision of the
above mentioned Act the owners of the Business and trades referred
to in the under mentioned schedule established and being carried
out in the limits of Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha must pay a
license fee of Rs.3,000 Pradeshiya Sabha for 3 years beginning with
the relevant year and obtain a relevant environment Protection.
K. P
USHPALAL KUMARASINGHA,
Chairmen,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ambalangoda.
Pradeshiya Sabha,
Batapola Ambalangoda,
10th October, 2012.
FIXED CAPITAL TESTING CHARGE
The Initial Capital Testing Charge
Rs. cts.
01. Rs.1,000 1,000 0
02. Rs. 500  - Rs. 1,000 5,000 0
03. Rs.250 - Rs. 500 3,750 0
04. Rs. 250 or less 3,000 0
S
CHEDULE
1. Petrol shed,
2. More than 10 employees are working product candles factory,
3. More than 10 employees are working product coconut oil
factory,
4. More than 10 employees are working product soft drink
factory with out,
5. Rice mill with drying processes,
6. Grinding mills with a monthly capacity of less than 1000 kilo
grams,
7. Drying tobacco factory,
8. Cinnamon smoking industry with a production capacity
process with sulphur smoke,
9. Peking of sold factory,
10. Get instant tea factory with out factory,
11. Concret mixer industries,
12. Machanized industry cement tile,
13. Product of limes less than 20 metric one per day,
14. Product of plasterer of paris industry and less than 25
employees working ten then wares factory,
15. Shells grinding industry,
16. Tiles and bricks factory,
17. Excavation by exploding a single bore at a time and with a
capacity of 600 cubic meters,

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1079
18. Timber saw mill which product daily capacity of less than 50
cubic meters or timber diver sing carpentry and timber
diversion industries using boron devising method,
19. Machinery using wood work industries and 5 more than 25
less than employess work industry,
20. More than 5 less than 20 hostel rooms or foreign hotel or
guest house,
21. Machinery of vehicle air condison repairing maintenance
painting with out garage vehicle repairing of other garage,
22. Fridge and air condision machine reparing,
23. Container terminus not servicing vehicles,
24. All electrical or electronic goods repairing place with 10
employee or more than ten employees,
25. Letter printing machines and printing press not melting lead.
Flowing report by the Concil
11-21/7
–––––––––––––––
AMBALANGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Hobbies Tax - 2013
AMBALANGODA Pradeshiya Sabha has taken decisions at for
year of 2013 to the pay tax Pradeshiya Sabha Circular Act, No. 176
(3) relevant.
K. P
USHPALAL KUMARASINGHA,
Chairman,
Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
SCHEDULE
Rs. cts.
01. One day temporary show - Per one day fees 200 0
More than one day fees
02. Music shows instrument per day 100 0
03. Entrance Tickets 500 0
11-21/6
–––––––––––––––––––
AMBALANGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Taxes for vehicles and animals for the year - 2013
IN TERMS OF SECTION 122(1) OF PRADESHIYA SABHA
ACT, No. 15 OF 1987
2013 that a tax for vehicles and animals should be imposed as per
rates in the schedule given below under Section 147 of said Act,
That such tax should be paid before 30th June 2013 under section
148(3)
K. P
USHPALAL KUMARASINGHA,
Chairman,
Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
SCHEDULE
Rs. cts.
01. All of motor vehicles and cart 25 0
02. Bicycle 4 0
03. If use for bicycle commercial purpose 18 0
04. All types of vehicles 20 0
05. For every cart 10 0
06. All types of rick show 7 50
07. For every horse, pony or mule 15 0
08. All of elephants 50 0
11-21/3
––––––––––––––––
AMBALANGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Tax for Advertisement - 2013
THAT taxes be recovered for notices and advertisement offixed or
exhibited roads on street public place vehicles within the local
limits of the Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha during the year 2013
should pay the tax as set out in this schedule here to in terms of
section 122(1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 road
with government notification No. 520/7 of 23.08.1988.
K. PUSHPALAL KUMARASINGHA,
Chairman
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ambalangoda.
SCHEDULE
Rs. cts.
01. Notices offixed in walls and boards for
each sq.ft. (yearly) 80 0
02. Notices offixed in bennar for each sq.ft. (monthly) 35 0
03. Notices offixed in bennar for each sq.ft. (over 30 days) 50 0
11-21/2
––––––––––––––––
AMBALANGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Schedule No. 10
SUPPLY of crematorium facilities to Batapola/Gonapeenuwala
crematorium (Cremation Cemetery) for the year 2013 :
1. For the cremation of the dead body of the person resided
within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rs. 6,000.
2. For the cremation of the dead body of the person resided
outside the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rs. 7,500.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1080
Charges regarding the damage caused to the roads under following
categories shown in the schedule below, administered by the
Pradeshiya Sabha coming under Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Limits,
will be levied.
Serial Road Particulars Amount of charge
No. for Square metre
Shoulder Complete
Road
Rs. Rs.
01 Carpet road 1,750 3,025
02 Concrete road 1,750 3,025
03 Tarred road 1,000 2,500
04 Earthen road 1,000 1,000
Chairman
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ambalangoda.
11-21/8
––––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA   SABHA  – WARIYAPOLA
Impossing Business Tax for the Year – 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. III of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30th
August, 2012 by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha
Wariyapola under sub section 1 of section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
A
NANDA JA Y ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is proposed that from every person who runs any business
within Pradeshiya Sabha limits during year 2013 for which no
license should be obtained by virtue of powers vested in the
Pradeshiya Sabha by sub section 1 of section 152 of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and under the provisions of said Act or
a By-law made under or no tax should be paid under section 150 but
when the income of the said business for the year 2012 has been
within the limits mentioned in the corresponding entry in Column
II should be charged for the year 2013.
S
CHEDULE NO. I
1. Running a liquor shop
2. Running a business of buying and selling of export materials
3. Running a carpentry shed
4. Running a bñiness of producing and selling coconut timber
5. Running a business of drying and selling coir blocks
6. Running a business of selling tyres tubes
7. Running a business of wood carving selling them
8. Running a business of hiring motor graders, bacco and dozers
9. Running a retail business (small)
10. Running a business of vegetables
11. Running a business of selling betel and arecanut
12. Running a business of repairing and selling watches and clocks
13. Running a flower stall
14. Running a studio
15. Running a business of shop articles and cosmetics
16. Running a whole sale business of retail goods
17. Running a weaving centre
18. Running a place for selling ready made garments
19. Running a place for cutting glass and picture framing
20. Running a place for supplying goods used in functions
21. Maintenance of a veterinary infirmary
22. Running a business of selling spareparts for vehicles
23. Running a business of making notice boards
24. Selling spare parts for motor bicycles
25. Running a fruit stall
26. Running a boutique for selling retail goods and vegetables
27. Running a jewelery shop
28. Commission agents
29. Brokers
30. Suppliers
31. Lottery agents
32. Motor vehicle sellers
33. Job agencies
34. Financial institutions and banks
35. Private hospitals
36. Running a garment
37. Running a betting center
38. Jem business
39. Auditors
40. Private property sale companies
41. Institutions of producing agro equipment
42. Institutions of renting out vehicles
43. Auctioneers
44. Pawn brokers
45. Driving schools
46. Insurance agents
47. Private tution classes
48. Attorneys-at-law and Notary publics
49. International schools
50. Contractors
51. Security service centres
52. Money lenders
53. Housing planers
54. Business consultancy services
55. Cleaners
56. Running a place for Sinhala and English type writing
57. Running a telecommunication centre
58. Running an optical
59. Running a place for selling textile cut pieces
60. Running a class for karate and judo
61. Running a place for astronomers

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1081
62. Running a place for distribution of newspapers
63. Running a record bar
64. Running a place for storing and selling books and stationaries
65. Running a place for selling ayurvedic medicine
66. Running a business of hiring sound system
67. Running a business of selling fancy goods and gift items
68. Conducting computer training classes
69. Running a business of cutting blocks and stamp pads
70. Running a business of textiles
71. Running a grocery
72. Running a daycare centre
73. Running a communication centre
74. Selling coconut (whole sale and retail)
75. Running a business of selling electric appliences
76. Running a shop for selling mobile phones
77. Telecommunication towers
78. Running a business of repairing and selling computers
79. Running a business of selling king coconut, young coconut
and quid
80. Sales representative services (milk powder, biscuits)
81. Running a retail business
82. Running a business of keeping nurseries
83. Running a business producing agro seeds and fertilizers
84. Running a reception hall
85. Running a shop for selling aluminiumware
86. Selling sets of bathware and tiles
87. Maintenance of a cinema hall
88. Grain selling centre
89. Running a place for hiring musical instrument
90. Running a car sale
91. Running a body fitness centre
92. Maintenance of a place for art work
93. Running a video centre
94. Running a place for selling curtains
95. Pilgrimages to Dambadiva
96. Producing and selling mosquito nets
97. Running a business of timber transportation
98. Packing and selling of timber preservatives
99. Running a business of producing bags
100. Providing music for functions
101. Supplying services
102. Selling lorry bodies
103. Selling powder tools and hand tools
104. Producing and selling of local handycraft articles
105. Running a place for repairing phones
106. Running a  place for manufacturing syrup or fruit juice
107. Running a place for selling plastic and wood furniture
108. Running a place for selling clay items
109. Selling footwear
110. Hiring funeral under taking
111. Selling brass ware
112. Vehicle emission testing
113. House planning
114. Controlling insect pest
115. Making vehicle number plates
116. Internet cafe and computer games
117. Advertising services
118. Business of digital printing
119. Selling worshiping items
120. Selling oils
121. Selling motor bicycles
122. Selling three wheeler spare parts
123. Selling rice (retail and wholesale)
124. Selling door mats
125. Selling foot bicycle spare parts
126. Selling cool drinks
127. Selling paints
128. Selling foot bicycles
129. Producing and selling TV antennas
130. Cultivation of Anthurium
131. Florist
132. Producing and selling candle wicks
133. Self jobs
134. Selling hand tractor spare parts
SCHEDULE No. II
Annual income of the year Annual tax to be paid
Column I Column II
Rs. cts.
1. From Rs. 100 - Rs. 6,000 Nil
2. From Rs. 6,000 - Rs. 12,000 90 0
3. From Rs. 12,000 - Rs. 18,750 180 0
4. From Rs. 18,750 - Rs. 75,000 360 0
5. From Rs. 75,000 - Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
6. Exceeding Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
11–80/3
––––––––––––––––
W ARIYAPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-law on Propaganda Notice and Visual Environment
IT is hereby proposed that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. IX of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30th
August, 2012 that a permit should be obtained for the displaying
propaganda notices within Pradeshiya Sabha limits – Wariyapola
accordingly and that a fee there on is recovered by this Sabha.
A
NANDA JAY ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1082
RESOLUTION
In terms of provisions of By-law on propaganda notices/visual
environment given Section 30 of standard By-law approved and
declared by the Minister in charge of subject of Local Government
in Part IV(a) of Local Government Extraordinary Gazette No. 520/
7 of 23.08.1988 by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha –
Wariyapola by sections 22(4) and 122-126 of Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987, it is proposed that charges should be imposed
levied as mentioned in Schedule below from 01.01.2013 until
amendment is made in respect of displaying and constructions of
propaganda notices (including banners)
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Description Charge
recovered
Rs. cts.
1. For a permanent propaganda notice displayed
by means of a support or on a wall, 60 per 1 sq. ft.
a parephet wall, a board or a plank (should be
paid  annually)
2. For a banner displayed for over period of one
month but less than 03 months 30  0
3. For a banner displayed for a month or less 20  0
4. For over a period of 03 months for cutouts 40  0
5. For below a period of 03 months for cutouts 30  0
6. The Sabha owned premises in Wariyapola 2 50
town for temporary trade stalls and for
performing open air shows (per day)
7. A tax of 10% of every ticket sold for
every musical show, dancing show, circus
show, magic show, aid cinema show
and cinema show
8. License fee for public shows (per day) 500 0
11–80/9
–––––––––––––––
W ARIYAPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Impossing Tax on Vehicles and Animals
IT is hereby proposed that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. VII of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30th
August, 2012 by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha
Wariyapola under sub section 148 read with section 147 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
A
NANDA JA Y ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is proposed that an annual tax for every animal or vehicle
(shown in Column I of the Schedule below) kept in one’s possession
within Pradeshiya Sabha limits – Wariyapola in the year 2013
should be recovered for the year 2013 as per the rates given in
Column II of the same Schedule in terms of powers vested in
Pradeshiya Sabha – Wariyapola under section 148 read with section
147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Rs. cts.
1. For every bicycle or tricycle –
(a) If used for commercial purpose 18 0
(b) If not used for commercial purpose 4 0
(c) For every cart 20 0
(d) For every hand tractor 10 0
2. For every horse, pony and mule 17 0
3. For every tusker and elephant 50 0
4. For every dog 25 0
11–80/7
––––––––––––––
W ARIYAPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-law on parking Vehicles within Pradeshiya Sabha
Limits Wariyapola
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. XI of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30th
August, 2012.
ANANDA JA Y ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha – Wariyapola has accepted at general meeting
held on 28.09.2010 that the By-law on parking vehicles within
Pradeshiya Sabha limits - Wariyapola and then notified by Part
IV(A) of extra special gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka, No. 1,714 of 08.07.2011 which was made by Hon.
Minister in charge of subject of Local Government and then
published in the Part IV(A) of the gazette of Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,663 of 16.07.2010 and then declared in
the Part IV in the Part IV(A) of extra special gazette No. 1,703/18

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1083
of 28.04.2011 to the effect that it was adopted at Provincial Council
meeting of North West held on 18.01.2011 should be accepted and
it is proposed that charged should be imposed and levied mentioned
in Schedule below in terms of the said By-law for the year 2013.
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II Column III
Annual Parking
Registration charges
fee per day
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. For every passenger transport bus 100 0 40 0
for every three wheeler 50 0 15 0
For vehicle other than passenger
transport buses/three wheelers 50 0 25 0
2. A discount of 10% will be granted if the payment is made for
whole month at the beginning the month.
3. Annual registration fee for three wheelers which will be parked
in the three wheeler park is Rs. 100.
4. An amount of Rs. 15 for a vehicle parked in a car park situated
in Pradeshiya Sabha premises for over 1 hour without the aim
of hiring it.
11–80/11
––––––––––––––
WARIYAPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Impossing Acreage Tax for the Year – 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. VI of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30th
August, 2012 by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha
Wariyapola under sub section (III) of section 134 of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
A
NANDA JAY ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby proposed that –
(a) An annual tax of Rs. 50 for a land of not less than 01
hectare but less than 05 hectares.
(b) And annual tax at a rate of Rs. 10 per 01 hectare for a land
of 05 or more hectares which are situated in areas declared
as special areas for imposing and recovery of acreage tax
under the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Repubilc of Sri
Lanka No. IV(A) of 03.02.1989 under the provisions of
sub section III of section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987 and are under the continuous or permanent
cultivation situated within Pradeshiya Sabha limits –
Wariyapola by virture of powers vested under section III
of section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
11–80/6
––––––––––––––
WARIYAPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-law on Lodges and Rest Houses
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. XIII of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on
30th August, 2012.
A
NANDA JAY ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha - Wariyapola has accepted at general meeting
held on 28.09.2010 that the By-law on lodge and rest houses and
then notified by Part IV(A) of extra special Gazette of Democratic
Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka No. 1,714 of 08.07.2011 which was
made by Hon. Minister-in-charge of subject of Local Government
and then published in Part IV(A) of the Gazette of Democratic
Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka No. 1,663 of 16.07.2010 and then
declared in the Part IV(A) of extra special Gazette No. 1,703/18 of
28.04.2011 to the effect that it was adopted at Provincial Council
meeting of North West held on 18.01.2011 should be accepted and
it is proposed that charges should be imposed and levied as
mentioned in schedule below in terms of the said By-law for the
year, 2012.
Further, when a premises is used for the purpose of a hotel, a
restaurant or a lodge which were registered in and approved and
recognized by Sri Lanka Tourist Board for the purposes of Tourism
Development Act, No. 14 of 1968, charges should be 1% of income
received by that hotel, restaurant or lodge in the previous year.
11–80/13

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1084
WARIYAPOLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Impossing Entertainment Tax for the Year - 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. VIII of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on
30th August, 2012.
ANANDA JA Y ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It was adopted at Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 22.09.2009
that a tax of 10% of payment made for entry into any entertainment
activity (except for Entertainment Tax Ordinance No. 12 of 1946
amended by Entertainment Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 27 of 1984
and that, but the tax to be recovered on a payment made to see a
cinema show within 2 years of implementation of this resolution
should be reduced as 7.5% of the tax so recovered. This adopted
resolution has approved by the Chief Minister of North Western
Province by the letter No. NW/CMS/b08/64 of 31.01.2011 sent by
Secretary to the Chief Ministry of North Western Province and it is
hereby proposed that said tax should be recovered upon this notice
on approval is published in the Gazette and from the date of that
Gazette.
11–80/8
––––––––––––––
W ARIYAPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Impossing Assesment Tax for the Y ear - 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. V of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30th
August, 2012 by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha
Wariyapola under Sub-section (1) of Section 134 of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
A
NANDA JA Y ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby proposed that the valuation of all houses, buildings
and lands made in the year 2011 should be accepted for the year
2013 in terms of powers vested Pradeshiya Sabha - Wariyapola
under Sub-section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
That a rate of 4% above said annual valuation should be imposed
and recovered for property situated in Wariyapola town division
and in Katupotha town division.
That a rate of 2% of annual valuation made for property situated
in Padeniya, Hanhamuna and Rambawewa should be imposed and
recovered and that the said annual valuation should be amended
according to the physical changes of the property.
11–80/5
––––––––––––––
KULIYAPITIYA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Impossing Assessment Tax for the year - 2013
IT is hereby notified that under the Decision Number 3-iii of the
General Council held on 28.06.2012 the Pradeshiya Sabha has
passed the proposal to levy an Assessment Tax in respect of
immovable property situated in the areas declared as developed
areas situated within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
Kuliyapitiya and 2.50% out of the annual value of the above
property should be paid to the Pradeshiya sabha in 4 equal parts on
or before 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st
December, 2013 in terms of Section 148 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987 if the full annual tax is paid before 31st January,
2013 a discount of 10% will be offered and if the relevant amount is
paid in the first month of the quarter, a discount of 5% will be
offered.
(i) Further a surcharge of Fifteen percent (15%) out of the
assessment rates recoverable in respect of empty lands
and housing places ; and
(ii) A surcharge of Twenty percent (20%) out of the
assessment rates recoverable in respect of the property of
none empty lands nor housing places will be recovered.
S
AMPATH SUSANTHA KETAWALAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya,
19th September, 2012.
11–12/7

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1085
KULIYAPITIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Impossing Tax on vehicles and animals for the year 2013
in terms of Section 148 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act
IT is hereby notified that the Pradeshiya Sabha has passed the
proposal to levy a tax in respect of animals and vehicles in following
rates mentioned in the schedule below, under the decision Number
3-iii of the General Council held on 28.06.2012 that should be paid
to the Pradeshiya Sabha before 31st March, 2012 in terms of Section
148 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
S
AMPATH SUSANTHA KETAWALAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya,
19th September, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Rs. cts.
(a) If used for business purpose 18 0
(b) If used for non business purpose 4 0
For every cart 20 0
For every hand cart 10 0
For every rickshaw 7 50
For every horse, pony or mule 15 0
For every tusker 50 0
11–12/6
––––––––––––––––
KULIYAPITIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Impossing tax for the year 2012 in respect imposing
Acreage Tax for the year 2013 under Section 134(3) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act
IT is hereby notified that the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya has
decided under resolution Number 3-iii at the General Council held
on 28.06.2012, in terms of the approval of the Minister and Section
134(3) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to levy an
acreage tax in respect of cultivated lands situated within areas where
assessment tax is not imposed in the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya
so as to be paid at the rate of Rs. 50 per hectare in case of 1-5
hectares and Rs. 10 per every exceeding hectare before 31st of
March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December, 2013
respectively and following discounts will be paid if the taxes are
paid in full as follows in terms of Section 134(7) of the said Act.
(a) If the full amount relevant for the acreage tax is paid
before 31st of January, 2013 discount of 10% will be
paid from the relevant acreage tax.
(b) When acreage tax is paid in quarterly if the tax is paid in
the first month of the quarter, 5% discount will be paid
from the relevant acreage tax.
S
AMPATH SUSANTHA KETAWALAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya,
19th September, 2012.
11–12/5
––––––––––––––––
KULIYAPITIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Impossing Entertainment Tax for the year 2013 in terms
of Entertainment Tax Ordinance
IT is hereby notified that on the motion on 3-iii proposed at the
General Council held on 28.06.2012, the Pradeshiya Sabha has
decided to levy an entertainment tax of 20% out of the full value of
all tickets sold for tempolary film show, video show, musical show,
karate show, judo show or any other show displayed from 01st of
January, 2013 within the area of authority of Kuliyapitiya
Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of first Sub-section of 2nd Section of
entertainment tax ordinance.
Rs. cts.
1. For year 3,500 0
2. For 06 months 2,500 0
3. For three months 1,500 0
4. For one months 750 0
5. For one day 100 0
It is hereby notified that a sum of Rs. 200 is charged for every
exceeding day.
S
AMPATH SUSANTHA KETAWALAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya,
19th September, 2012.
11–12/3
––––––––––––––––
KULIYAPITIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Impossing Tax for the year 2013 in respect of the
Sale of Lands
IT is hereby notified that the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya has
essed the resolution made under resolution number 3-iii at the

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1086
General Council held on 28.06.2012 in case of a land situated within
the limits of Pradeshiya Sabha is sold by an auctioneer, broker or
his employee or an agent in a public auction or whatever manner, a
tax equivalent to 1% of the amount received from the sale of such
land should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya by the
seller, employee or auctioneer or his agent, in terms of Section
154(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
S
AMPATH SUSANTHA KETAWALAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya,
19th September, 2012.
11–12/4
––––––––––––––––
BUTTALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Annual Business Tax for the year - 2013
IN terms of the powers vested by section 152(1) of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that it has been
decided to impose and levy for the year 2013 an annual business tax
calculated according to the income of the relevant industry or business
in the previous year as per the rates indicated in the schedule II for
an industry or a business mentioned in the following schedule I
conducted within the limits of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
It is hereby notified that the resolution had been adopted at the
monthly meeting of the Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha held on 04.09.2012
that the relevant tax should be paid to Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha
before 31st March, 2013 by any person who conducts businesses
or professions the year 2013.
Deshabandu D
AMAY ANTHA DOLEWATTE,
Chairman,
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.
SCHEDULE No. I
Business enterprises  :
1. Contractors
2. Money lenders
3. Money investors
4. Auctioneers and brokers
5. Insurance agents
6. Lottery agents
7. Private bus agents
8. Owners of hiring vehicles
9. Employment agents
10. Commission agents
11. Publicity agents
12. Motor - vehicle salesman
13. Gem merchants
14. Bank or insurance agent
15. Filling station agent
16. Suppliers
17. Maintenance of a pawn shop
18. Persons conducting private tuition classes
19. Maintenance of a driving school
20. Maintenance of a private dispensary
21. Maintenance of an agency post offices
22. Maintenance of a liquor shop
23. Maintenance of a place for computer training
24. Maintenance of a place for providing accounting services
25. Agents of institutions providing communication services
26. Certain limited companies which should pay the business
tax as directed by the Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha under this
section.
SCHEDULE No. II
T
AXES THAT SHOULD BE PAID ACCORDING TO THE INCOME
Rs. cts.
1. Not exceeding Rs. 6,000 nothing
2. Within the limit of Rs. 6,001 - Rs. 12,000 90 0
3. Within the limit of Rs. 12,001 - Rs. 18,750 180 0
4. Within the limit of Rs. 18,751 - Rs. 75,000 360 0
5. Within the limit of Rs. 75,001 - Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
6. Above Rs. 150,001 3,000 0
11–145/2
––––––––––––––––
BUTTALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Advertisements and Visual Environment
BY virtue of powers vested in the Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha under
section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, it is
hereby notified that the resolution has been adopted at the monthly
meeting of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha held on 04.09.2012 to impose
and levy charges stipulated in the following schedule with effect
from 01.01.2013 for the cnstruction and exhibition of advertisements
(banners) under para 39 of standard By-law approved and published
in the Gazette No. 520/7 (extraordinary) dated 23.08.1988 by the
honarable minister in charge of Provincial Administration.
Deshabandu D
AMAY ANTHA DOLEWATTE,
Chairman,
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1087
SCHEDULE
Sescrition Rs. cts.
01. For a square feet or part of it when a permanent 50 0
propaganda advertisement displayed on a wall or
board
02. For a square feet or part of it when a temporary 15 0
propaganda advertisement displayed on a banner
03. For a square feet or part of it in a cinema 10 0
propaganda advertisement or other propaganda
banner
11–145/3
––––––––––––––––
BUTTALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition of Taxes on sale of Lands – 2013
IN terms of section 154(1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987, it is hereby notified that the resolution has been adopted at
the monthly meeting held on 04.09.2012 that if any land within the
limits of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha is sold in public auction or
otherwise by an auctioneer, broker, his servant or agent a tax equal
to 1% of the proceeds of that land should be paid to Buttala
Pradeshiya Sabha by such vendor, auctioneer, broker or his servant
or agent.
Deshabandu D
AMA YANTHA DOLEWATTE,
Chairman,
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.
11–145/5
––––––––––––––––
BUTTALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Tax for vehicles and animals for the year - 2013
IN terms of section 147 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987, it is hereby notified that the resolution has been adopted at
the monthly meeting of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha held on 04.09.2012
to impose and levy a tax for the vehicles and animals within the
limits of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha as per rates stipulated in the
following schedule for the year 2013 in terms of section 148 in the
said Act and such tax should be paid in accordance with section
148(3) of the said Act before 31st March, 2013.
Deshabandu D
AMA YANTHA DOLEWATTE,
Chairman,
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Description Rs. cts.
1. For a motor car, motor tricar, motor bicycle, cart, 25   0
motor lorry, jin rickshaw, bicycle or for every
vehicle other than a tircycle
2. For every bicycle or tricycle or a cyclist or a cart -
(a) It used for commercial purpose 18  0
(b) It used for non commercial purpose 10  0
Specified licence fee 4 0
Stationery fee 6 0
3. For every cart 20  0
4. For every hand cart 10  0
5. For every rickshaw 7 50
6. For every horse, pony or mule 15  0
7. For every elephant and tusker 50  0
11–145/4
––––––––––––––––
BUTTALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition of Licence Fees under Public Performance
Ordinance
IN terms of section 3 of (Chapter 176) public performance
Ordinance, I hereby notify that the resolution has been adopted at
the monthly meeting held on 04.09.2012 to impose and levy licence
fees for every stage play, film show, musical show, circus and other
shows to be screened within the limits of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha
during the year 2013 as stipulated in the following schedule
Deshabandu D
AMA YANTHA DOLEWATTE,
Chairman,
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1088
SCHEDULE
Sescrition Rs. cts.
01. Per day or when not exceeding 3 days 500 0
02. For each day exceeding 3 days or part thereof 100 0
11–145/6
––––––––––––––––
BUTTALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Assessment Tax - Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the resolution has been adopted at the
monthly meeting of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha held on 04.09.2012
to impose and levy for the year 2013 an assessment tax of 12%
from the value of immovable properties situated at either side of
the main roads called as Wellawaya road Monaragala road,
Kataragama road, Badalkumbura road, (Passara road) situated in
the area declared as a developed village area within the limits of
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Section 134(1) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and 10% from the value of
immovable properties located at either side of other by-roads and
to pay such taxes within 4 quarters ending on 31st March, 30th
June, 30th September and 31st December, 2013 and to offer a
discount of 10% from the full amount of assessment tax in case
such full amount of assessment tax is paid to the office of the
Pradeshiya Sabha before 31st January, 2013.
Deshabandu D
AMAY ANTHA DOLEWATTE,
Chairman,
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.
11–145/7
––––––––––––––––
BUTTALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Acreage Tax - Year 2013
IN terms of section 134(3) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987, it is hereby notified that it has been decided to impose and
levy an acreage tax from the lands under permanent or regular
cultivation within the areas where assessment taxes are not collected
in the jurisdiction of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha as per rates stipulated
in the following schedule.
It is hereby further notified that the resolution has been adopted
at the monthly meeting of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha held on
04.09.2013 to levy such tax in 4 quarters ending on the 31st March,
30th June, 30th September and 31st December, 2013 respectively.
Deshabandu D
AMAY ANTHA DOLEWATTE,
Chairman,
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Land extent Tax rate per year
Rs. cts.
1. When the extent of land less than 50 0
5 hectares but not less than 1 hectare
2. When the extent of land in 5 hectares 10 0
or exceeding it per hectare
11–145/8
––––––––––––––––
BUTTALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Entertainment Tax
IN terms of Sub-section (1) of section 2 of entertainment tax
ordinance, 1 hereby notify that it has been decided at the monthly
meeting held on 04.09.2012 to levy a 10% entertainment tax from
the ticket issued for every stage play, magic show, circus, benefit
film show, musical show, other show and every film show to be
screened outside the cinema halls within the limits of Buttala
Pradeshiya Sabha with effect from 01.01.2013.
Deshabandu D
AMAY ANTHA DOLEWATTE,
Chairman,
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.
11–145/9
AMBALANGODA  URBAN  COUNCIL
Imposition of License Duties and Taxes for the Y ear 2013
THIS is to inform that, according to the Council consent at the monthly Council meeting of Ambalangoda Urban Council held on
04.09.2012 the below mentioned fees will be charged under the Council Resolution No. 5:1:2.
In terms of Section 162 of the Urban Councils Ordinance, the Ambalangoda Urban Council has resolved to impose and levy for
the year 2013, a license duty on any license issued by the Urban Council under Section 164(1), a tax on any trade carried on wi thin the

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1089
limits of the Urban Council under Section 165(a) and a tax on any business carried on within the limits of the Urban Council under Section
165(b) (1) It is hereby notified that any person who carries on any trade and business for which a license is necessary shall pay the license
duty on or before 31st January, 2013 and that any person who carries on any business or trade for which no license is necessary, shall pay
the tax on or before 31st March, 2013. It is further notified that if any person liable to pay the license duty or the tax fail s to pay such
license duty or tax within the stipulated time, such failure will be reported to the Magistrate’s Court in terms of standard By  laws
published in the Gazette No. 10609 of 1953 and Section 165 ‘a’ (4) and 165 ‘b’ (3) of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further, notice is
hereby given to pay the tax and license duties payable to the Urban Council under Schedules (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6).
Chairman,
Ambalangoda Urban Council.
SCHEDULE  01
LICENSE DUTIES
Any person who uses any premises or place to carry on any trade or business within the limits of the Urban Council shall pay
a license duty and obtain a license in terms of Section 164(1). Such license duty shall be for carrying on any trade or any business referred
to in the following Schedule in accordance with the notice published in the Gazette No. 11219 of 12.12.1957 by this Urban Council which
has accepted the Urban Council By -law made and published in the Gazette No. 10609 of 6th November, 1953 by the Minister under the
Local Authorities Standard By-laws Act, No. 06 of 1952. Where any such premises are used for the purposes of a hotel, restauran t or
lodging house and such hotel, restaurant or lodging house is registered with the Sri Lanka Tourist Board for the purposes of th e Tourist
Development Act, No.14 of 1968, the duty shall be according to the takings of the hotel, restaurant or lodging house in the Year 2012 and
the following duties shall be paid in accordance with the annual value of the premises used for other trades and businesses. Further more
Urban Council has decided the trades and businesses referred to in Schedule 1 as the unpleasant and dangerous trades and businesses for
which a license is necessary.
Nature of License Annual Value of the Premises
Up to Between Above
Rs. 750 Rs.750 and Rs. 1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Bakeries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Eateries serving rice and curry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Tea/coffee shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Cafes/restaurants 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Lodging Houses 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Soft drinks bars/stores/factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Ice factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Dairies/milk bars/curd and treacle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Barber’s salons 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Sale of fish, meat, dry fish and salted fish (Jadi) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Cattle kraals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Sale of ice cream and packed ice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Grinding mills 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Poultry farming and sale of eggs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Sale of chemical fertilizer and pesticides 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Iodating of salt and sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Sale of fruits and vegetables 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Planning timber and carpentry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Manufacture of vinegar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Welding/tinkering/painting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Cold - room food storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Laundries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1090
23. Washing of vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Factories discharging effluent to environment 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Storage and sale of gas 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Restaurant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Sale of gruels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Pastry shop/sweet meats 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Hotels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
SCHEDULE  02
T
AXES ON TRADES
It is hereby notified that the Ambalangoda Urban Council has resolved to levy the following taxes for the Year 2013 on the
annual value of the trade premises carried on within the limits of Ambalagoda Urban Council.
Nature of the trade Annual Value of Premises
No. Up to From Rs. 750 Above
Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. For every factory (Small Scale) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Every lathe 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. To manufacture cement work 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. To repair refrigerators and are conditioners 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. To manufacture leather ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. To manufacture footwear 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. To manufacture household equipment 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. To frame pictures and photographs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. To repair bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. To manufacture rubber seals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. To manufacture cane ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. To make jewellery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. To charge batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. To repier electrical goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. To carry on a foundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. To manufacture coir goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. To carry on a tin workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. To carry on a forge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. To repair gas equipment 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. To temporary business 100 0 per day –
21. To temporary mobile business 100 0 per month –
22. To mobile business (Ice cream) 100 0 per day –
SCHEDULE  03
T
AXES ON BUSINESS
A tax according to the takings of the business in 2012 will be levied in the manner set out below for the year 2013 on the
businesses carried on within the admininstrative limits of Ambalangoda Urban Council.
Nature of License Annual Value of the Premises
Up to Between Above
Rs. 750 Rs.750 and Rs. 1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1091
Nature of the business                             Takings of the business in the previous year
From From From From More
No. Rs.6,000 to Rs,12,000 to Rs.18,750 to Rs. 75,000 to than
Rs.12,000 Rs. 18,750 Rs.75,000 Rs. 150,000 Rs.150,000
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. ( a) To rent out funeral goods 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
02. To sell ayurvedic medicine 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
03. To carry on a ayurvedic dispensary 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
04. ( b) To sell aluminium, Plastic ware 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
05. To sell Glasses 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
06. ( c) Dispensary 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
07. Filling stations 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
08. ( d) To carry on a reception hall 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
09. To hire out pawned articles 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
10. To rent out festival articles 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
11. ( e) To repair watches and clocks 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
12. ( f) Factories (large scale) 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
13. To carry on a factory 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
14. To carry on a body building classes 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
15. Artificial flowers, thread, buttons 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
16. To carry on a catering service 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
17. To design cakes 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
18. To hire out instruments 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
19. Cusion work 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
20. ( g)  To carry on a grocery 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
21. To carry on a record bar 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
22. Building materials 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
23. To sell air tickets 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
24. ( h) To sell tyres 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
25. Tailor's shop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
26. Tuition classes 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
27. To Vulcanize tyres and tubes 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
28. ( i) To carry on an astrologer's office 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
29. Photocopy and laminating 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
30. To carry an studio 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
31. ( j) Wholesale stores 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
32. Three wheelers spare parts 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
33. Wholesale and retail 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
34. Horse race betting centers 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
35. To carry on a bookmaker's 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
36. To carry on an agency post office (Private) 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
37. To repair three wheelers 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
38. Communication services 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
39. To sell and repair telephones 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
40. Telephone facility providing centers 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
41. To carry on a dental surgery 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
42. Dental technician 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
43. Timber stores 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
44. Property sales 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
45. ( k) To make names boards 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
46. To draw building plans 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
47. Urban Council Shops 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
48. ( l) Computer accessory business and classes 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
49. Computer showrooms 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
50. Private Hospitals 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1092
51. Newspaper sale and agents 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
52. Bicycles spare parts 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
53. Bicycles Parking Premises 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
54. Used Newspaper trade 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
55. Private Electricity bill collection 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
56. School Books stationary 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
57. Export and Import of school stationary 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
58. Sell used iron ware 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
59. Showrooms 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
60. Pharmacies 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
61. Brassware 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
62. Advertising agencies 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
63. To carry on a training institute 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
64. Plant nurseries 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
65. Private Schools 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
66. To frame Pictures 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
67. Banks, Insurance Finance Institute 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
68. Batik Showrooms 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
69. To sell betel and tobacco 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
70. To sell eggs 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
71. To hire out heavy vehicle 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
72. To sell earthen ware 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
73. Bridal dressing 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
74. Printing press 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
75. To sell liquor 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
76. Ready-made garment 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
77. Sale of motor vehicles 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
78. Sale of motor vehicle spare parts 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
79. Sale of motor bicycle 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
80. Sale of motor bicycle spare parts 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
81. To repair motor vehicle (Garage) 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
82. Sale of sawing machine spare parts 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
83. ( m) To sell textiles 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
84. Pieces of cloths 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
85. Schools for learner drivers 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
86. Beauty saloons 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
87. Sale of lotteries 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
88. Pre schools 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
89. Cane wave 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
90. To maintain a communication tower 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
91. Foreign Employment agency 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
92. Sale of electrical goods 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
93. Channeling services 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
94. Auction broker 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
95. To rent out video tapes 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
96. Sale of glass 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
97. Medical laboratories 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
98. To test vehicles for emission 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
99. Sale of water pump 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
100. Sale of fancy items 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
101. Pots, ekle brooms, brooms 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
Nature of the business                             Takings of the business in the previous year
From From F rom From More
No. Rs.6,000 to Rs,12,000 to Rs.18,750 to Rs. 75,000 to than
Rs.12,000 Rs. 18,750 Rs.75,000 Rs. 150,000 Rs.150,000
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1093
102. Electrical goods stores 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
103. Animal Clinics 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
104. Super Markets 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
105. Sale of shopping items 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
106. Sale of ornamental fish and Birds 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
107. To hire out musical instruments 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
108. Cigarette sale agents 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
109. Cinema halls 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
110. Sale of gold jewellery 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
111. Sale of leather ware 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
112. To makes Plaques 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
113. Retail trade 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
114. ( p) To hire out loudspeakers 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
115. Commission Agents 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
116. Contractors 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
117. Money lenders or pawnbrokers 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
118. Insurance Agents 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
119. Insurance Companies 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
120. Notaries 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
121. Auctioneers and brokers 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
122. Caring on a private transport services 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
123. Selling cigarettes wholesale 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
124. Carring on a night betting shop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
125. Advertising agencies 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
126. Carring on private hospitals 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
127. Carring on a bodybuilding places 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
128. Carring on a place on computer training 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
129. Storing cinnamon 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
130. Selling fishing gears 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
131. Selling masks 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
132. Sale of offering items 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
133. Wholesale business of cereals and meat 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
134. Sale of paints 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
135. Sale of household equipments 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
136. Sale of footwear 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
137. Kitchen utensils 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
138. Carring on agencies 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
139. Sale of cement 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
140. Store and sale of paints 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
141. Sale of hardware 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
142. Sale of lime 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
143. Repair and sale of computer 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
144. Wood carving 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
145. Caring on an animal farm (pigs, cattle, poultry) 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
146. Repair and services of motor bicycles 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
147. Carring on a motor vehicles service center 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
with a vehicle lifting equipment
148. Carring on a place to test vehicle for emission 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
149. Carring on a place to test vehicle fitness 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
certificates
150. Sale of musical instruments 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
Nature of the business                             Takings of the business in the previous year
From From From From More
No. Rs.6,000 to Rs,12,000 to Rs.18,750 to Rs. 75,000 to than
Rs.12,000 Rs. 18,750 Rs.75,000 Rs. 150,000 Rs.150,000
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1094
151. Hiring vehicle service 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
152. Vulcanizing tires and tubes 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
153. Stores and sale of M. D. F. goods 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
154. Sale of sport gears 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
155. Sale of frozen fish and meat 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
156. For a timber store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
157. Carring on a timber sawing place by using 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
machines
158. For a hardware 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
159. For a metal crusher/quarry 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
160. To sell antique 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
161. To sell aluminium fittings 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
162. To sell spices 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
SCHEDULE  04
T
AXES ON SALE OF CERTAIN LANDS
Where any land within the administration limits of the Ambalangoda Urban Council is sold in a public auction or otherwise by
an auctioneer or broker or his servant or agent, a tax equivalent to one percents (1%) of the proceeds derived from such sale shall be paid
to the Ambalangoda Urban Council by such auctioner or broker or his employee or sub agent in terms of section 165C of the Urban
Council Ordinance (Chapter 255).
SCHEDULE  05
T
AX ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND ANIMALS
Rs. cts.
(i) For every vehicle not being Motor car, Motor tricar,  Motor lorry, Motor bicycle, Cart, Hand cart,
Rickshaw, Bicycle, and Tricycle 25   0
(ii) For every bicycle or tricycle bicycle car or bicycle cart or tricycle car or tricycle cart
(a)  For commercial Purpose  10   0
(b) For other than Commercial Purpose  5   0
For every cart  20   0
For every hand cart  10   0
For every rickshaw  7 50
For every horse, pony or colt  15   0
For every elephant  50   0
SCHEDULE 6
It is hereby notified that a tax equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the income of the cinema halls and twenty five percent of t he
income of the other entertainment activities carried on within the administration limits of the Ambalangoda Urban Council is le vied in
terms of section 2 of the entertainment Act, No. 12 of 1947.
T
HE MUNICIPAL COUNCILS (AMENDMENTS) ACT AND URBAN COUNCILS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 255)
It is hereby notified that the Ambalangoda Urban Council has decided to levy the taxes in the above schedule given under the
schedule 3, section 163 of the Urban Council Ordinance as amended by Municipal Council (amendments) Act, No. 42 of 1979 and tha t
the said taxes under section 163 of the said Act shall be paid on or before 30th June, 2013.
11–19
Nature of the business                             Takings of the business in the previous year
From From F rom From More
No. Rs.6,000 to Rs,12,000 to Rs.18,750 to Rs. 75,000 to than
Rs.12,000 Rs. 18,750 Rs.75,000 Rs. 150,000 Rs.150,000
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1095
AMBALANGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition on Business License Fees and Taxes for the Year 2013
IN terms of the 149, 150 (1) and 152(1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, that it was decided by the Sabha to impose and levy
a license fee on the basis of the annual value in respect of businesses a Business (Industrial) Tax on the basis of the annual tax on the basis
of the annual income of the previous business in respect of some businesses (professional) for the Year 2013 as mentioned in the following
Schedules within the administrative limits of Pradeshiya Sabha Ambalangoda for the year 2012 and it is hereby notified that such license
fees, business taxes and professional taxes shall be paid on or before 31st of March, 2013.
K. PUSHPALAL KUMARASINGHA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ambalangoda.
Office of the Ambalangoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
10th of October, 2012.
SCHEDULE No. 01
L
ICENSE FEES IMPOSED IN TERMS OF SECTION 149 IN PRADESHIY A SABHA ACT, NO.15 OF 1987
Nature of business license Places of Places of Places of
annual annual value annual
value up to from Rs. 750 value excee ding
Rs.750  to Rs. 1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Maintenance of  a place for hotel or cafeterias 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Maintenance of a place for tea or coffee kiosk 500 0 600 0 750 0
03. Maintenance of a place for eating shop 500 0 600 0 750 0
04. Maintenance of a place for selling home needs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Maintenance of a place for machinery wood workshop 500 0 600 0 750 0
06. Maintenance of a place for wood workshop 500 0 600 0 750 0
07. Maintenance of  a place for make, selling and stoking earthen ware 300 0 500 0 750 0
08. Maintenance of a place for driving institution 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Maintenance of a place for selling and stoking shopping items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
toys and spices
10. Maintenance of a place for selling spare parts of motor cycles and
three wheelers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Maintenance of a place for reparing three wheelers and motor cycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Maintenance of a place for three wheels and motor cycles service station 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Maintenance of a place for repairing cycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Maintenance of a place for reparing motor cycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Maintenance of a place for selling spare parts of cycles, electrical 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
appliances, fridge and machine
16. Maintenance of a place for smithy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Maintenance of a place for manufacturing and selling fancy items or carft 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Maintenance of a place for reparing and selling leather goods and footware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Maintenance of a place for selling beetle, nut, eacle brooms, brooms 400 0 500 0 750 0
banana and king coconut
20. Maintenance of a place for manufacturing English medicines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Maintenance of a place for manufacturing Aurvedic medicines 500 0 600 0 750 0
22. Maintenance of a place for manufacturing English or Aurvedic medicines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Maintenance of a place for X -Ray clinic and private dental clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Maintenance of a place for selling mushroom or grow and show flower plant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Maintenance of a place for selling plasticware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Conduct of a place for astrological office 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Maintenance of a place for medical laboratory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Maintenance of a place for selling tiles, bricks, metal and blocks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1096
29. Maintenance of a place for rent festival utensils 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Maintenance of a place for bridal get up preparation 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Maintenance of a place for textile show 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Maintenance of a place for selling readymade garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. Maintenance of a place for tailoring shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34. Maintenance of a place for studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. Maintenance of a place for framing pictures 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Maintenance of a place for selling CD, VCD, taping and recording 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37. Maintenance of a place for selling stationery, school items, 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
newspapers and magazines
38. Maintenance of place for LDD and IDD calls 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. Maintenance of a place for operating photo copy, ronio and laminating 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. Maintenance of a place for selling and repairing computer, 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
maintenance of a computer training centre
41. Maintenance of a place for selling building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. Maintenance of a place for cushion work shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. Maintenance of a place for storing and selling Atapirikara 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. Maintenance of a place for manufacturing and rent music instrument 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45. Maintenance of a place for tailoring and selling mosquito nets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
46. Maintenance of a place for selling agency for the newspapers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Maintenance of a place for sale mobile phones and phone spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
48. Maintenance of a place for private education 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49. Maintenance of a place for storing and selling ceramics (porcelain, silver) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. Maintenance of a place for selling vehicles spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51. Maintenance of a place for growing and selling colour fish and birds, 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Maintenance of manufacturing and selling fish tanks
52. Maintenance of a place for race bookie 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53. Maintenance of a place for product of excercise books 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54. Maintenance of a place for selling sports items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
55. Maintenance of a place for selling lottery tickets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
56. Maintenance of a place for notice boards and plastic number plates 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
57. Maintenance of a place for flower plants, herbal plants and other plants 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
selling, growth and exhibition
58. Maintenance of a place for mobile wood furnishers and others (per day) 500 0
59. Maintenance of a place for fixed mobile phone active temporary stall 1,000 0
(per one day to seven days)
60. Banks pawn articles redeem auction’s per day charge 500 0
61. Maintenance of a place for mobile holt car/vehicle (year) dry fish/fruit 750 0
vegetable and dry food
62. Maintenance of a place for veterinary hospital 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
63. Maintenance of a place for selling and storing Aluminiuam 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
64. Maintenance of a place for selling and storing glassware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
65. Maintenance of a place for storing, selling and buying fair strike 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
66. Maintenance of a place for selling and stroring cement over 1,250kg. 400 0 500 0 1,000 0
67. Maintenance of a place for running an agency post office 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
68. Maintenance of a place for selling and storing brick kiln 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
69. Maintenance of a place for selling electrical and electronic appliances 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
70. Maintenance of a place for storing tea 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
71. Maintenance of a place for sales of stoking 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
72. Maintenance of a place for product and selling brooms and iqul broom 300 0 500 0 750 0
73. Maintenance of a place for tree cutting 400 0 500 0 750 0
74. Maintenance of a place for repairing watches 300 0 500 0 750 0
Nature of business license Places of Places of Places of
annual annual value annual
value up to from Rs. 750 value exceeding
Rs.750  to Rs. 1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1097
SCHEDULE No. II(ii)
LICENSE FEES IMPOSED IN TERMS OF SECTION 150(1) IN PRADESHIY A SABHA ACT, NO.15 OF 1987
Nature of business license Places of Places of Places of
annual annual value annual
value up to from Rs. 750 value excee ding
Rs.750  to Rs. 1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Nature of business – Dangerous business :
01. Maintenance of a place for lathe 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Maintenance of a place for welding and grill shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Maintenance of a place for producting thread cotton and loom centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Maintenance of a place for screen printing workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Maintenance of a place for cement products and selling concrete cylinder 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Maintenance of a place for producting and selling cement tiles, flower 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
pots and carvings
07. Maintenance of a place for repairing/filling of the gas fridge, computer, 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
cellular, mobile, electronic, electrical
08. Maintenance of a place for motor coil worksshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Maintenance of a place for product and storing fertilizer and animal foods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Maintenance of a place for drying paddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Maintenance of a place for electrical printing press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Maintenance of a place for repairing radio, TV, Camera and Watches 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Maintenance of a place for manufacturing footware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Maintenance of a place for rent for generators 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Maintenance of a place for painting the vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Maintenance of a place for making bodies for vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
SCHEDULE No. II(iii)
T
AX IMPOSED ON CERTAIN BUSINESS ENTERPRISES UNDER SECTION 150(1) OF PRADESHIY A SABHA ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987
Nature of Business Enterprises  – Unpleasant Business  :
01. Maintenance of a place for cool spot/milk bar and snack bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Maintenance of a place for selling eggs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Maintenance of a place for producing and selling sweets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Maintenance of a place for manufacturing and selling papadam and noodles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Maintenance of a place for producing and selling fruit juice and milk ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Maintenance of a place for dry storing and selling dry fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Maintenance of a place for producing cinnamon oil and cinnamon fire sheet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Maintenance of a place for selling and syrup peanuts and grams 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Maintenance of  a place for selling mineral water 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Maintenance of a place for less than 1,000 poultry farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Maintenance of a place for more than 1,000 poultry farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Maintenance of a place for less than 25 pigs farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Maintenance of a place for more than 25 pigs farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Maintenance of a place for less than 25 goats farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Maintenance of a place for more than 25 goats farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Maintenance of a place for grocery shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Maintenance of a place for storing animals food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Maintenance of a place for storing and selling coconut oil over 225 litres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Maintenance of a place for storing and selling tea 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Maintenance of a place for rubber bush workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Maintenance of a place for storing tea over one centenary 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Maintenance of a place for selling and buying tea and rubber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1098
SCHEDULE No. IV
TAX IMPOSED ON CERTAIN BUSINESS ENTERPRISES UNDER SECTION 150(1) OF PRADESHIYA SABHA ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987
Nature of business and Enterprises Places of Places of Places of
annual annual value annual
value up to from Rs. 750 value exceeding
Rs.750  to Rs. 1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Dangerous and unpleasant businesses :
01. Maintenance of a place for grinding chillies, cereal and flour 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Maintenance of a place for charging batteries and filling/the sale electric 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Maintenance of a place for fiber glass workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Maintenance of a place for coir mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Maintenance of a place for lime kiln 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Maintenance of a place for manufacture glue 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Maintenance of a place for manufacturing goods for resin and rubber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Maintenance of a place for rubber bush workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Maintenance of a place for manufacturing, selling and storing explosives 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Maintenance of a place for gas stock and selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Maintenance of a place for batik factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Maintenance of a place for producting of jewelleries and repairing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Maintenance of a place for polishing jewelleries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Maintenance of a place for selling and product brass items and steel items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Maintenance of a place for tyre tube valcanizing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Maintenance of a place for new and old tubes stock and selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Maintenance of a place for producting and selling coppra 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Maintenance of a place for selling funeral goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Maintenance of a place for parking vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Maintenance of a place for producting coconut oil and other oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
SCHEDULE No. V
L
ICENSE FEES IMPOSED IN TERMS OF SECTION 150(1) IN PRADESHIY A SABHA ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987
License fees imposed in terms of Section 150(1) in Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 it is hereby notified that it was decided
by the Sabha to impose and levy an annual business tax for a business or industry mentioned in the following schedule or according to the
rates mentioned in the following Schedules that accounted on the basis of the income of the last year in respect of business or industries :–
Annual income A tax to be paid
Rs. cts.
Not Exceeding Rs.6,000 Nil
Exceeding Rs.6,000 but not exceeding Rs.12,000 90 0
Exceeding Rs.12,000 but not exceeding Rs.18,750 180 0
Exceeding Rs.18,750 but not exceeding Rs. 75,000 360 0
Exceeding Rs.75,000 but not exceeding Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
Exceeding Rs.150,000 3,000 0
Place subject to business tax under section 152(1) :
1. Maintenance of a business as a commission agent
2. Maintenance of a business as a broker
3. Maintenance of a business as an Auctioneer
4. Maintenance of a business as a pawn broker
5. Maintenance of a business as an account audit
6. Maintenance of a business as a contractor

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1099
7. Maintenance of a business as a driving instructor
8. Maintenance of a business as a transport agent
9. Maintenance of a business as a foreign employment agent
10. Maintenance of a business as a lawyer
11. Maintenance of a business as a financial and banking
12. Maintenance of a business as a money lender
13. Maintenance of a business as a Draftsman
14. Maintenance of a business as a Insurance agent
15. Maintenance of a business as a Banker
16. Maintenance of a business as a place for jewellers.
17. Maintenance of a business as a machinery luntry
18. Maintenance of a business as a place for tower.
19. Maintenance of a business as a petrol shed
20. Maintenance of a nursing home, special channel services, operation theatre and hospitals.
21. Maintenance of a private business fair and weekend fair
22. Maintenance of approved by tourist board massage Ayurvedic clinic and channel service
23. Maintenance of a place for drink move wine sales stataras for foreign
24. Maintenance to a place for a garment factory
25. Maintenance of a business as a gem cutting, polishing and selling
26. Maintenance of a business as a export or arises
27. Maintenance of a business as a imported vehicle and tre-Coditioned vehicle show and selling
28. Maintenance of a business as a tourist for spice and picture card selling and caltvion
29. Maintenance of a business as a place for day security service station.
30. Maintenance of a business as a security service station
31. Maintenance of  a business as a still and wood produce of hoods stock and selling
32. Maintenance of a place for timber mill and depot
33. Maintenance of a place for machinery breaking stone and half a stone
34. Maintenance of a place for an international school
35. Maintenance of a place for co-operatory
36. Maintenance of a place for selling import three wheel mortor bicycle and cycles
37. Maintenance of a place for tea factory
38. Maintenance of a place for Travel agency
39. Maintenance of a bako loader machine bako machine dexet or motor grader machine road push sac machine tractor and tipper
concrete machine rent for the place
40. Maintenance of a van car bus lorry service place
41. Maintenance of a place for rubber factory
42. Maintenance of a lorry body repairing place
43. Maintenance of a place for product of polithing goods
44. Maintenance of a place for cinema theater
45. Maintenance of a place for emission.
46. Distributor
47. Safely
48. Maintenance of a place dry cinnamon and cinnamon oil selling and buying
49. Maintenance of a place to make earthern ware and pots
50. Maintenance of a place to produce papadam and noodles
51. Maintenance of a place to Machinery loom centre
52. Maintenance of a place to tourist hotels or hostel
53. Maintenance of a place for the table top comes in a call center that can earn income
54. Maintenance of a place selling and repairing motor bicycles
55. Maintenance of a place for cool spot
56. Maintenance of a place for machinery cutting woods.
11-21/1

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1100
WARIYAPOLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Industrial Tax – Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted under Resolution No. IV of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30t h
August, 2012 by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola under Sub-section (1) of section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987.
ANANDA JA Y ALA TH,
Chairman,
Wariyapola Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
"It is proposed that an Industrial Tax of should be imposed and recovered in terms of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by
Sub-section 01 of section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 in respect of industries shown in Column I of Schedule be low
which are maintained in any premises within Pradeshiya Sabha - Wariyapola as per the rates given in Column II of this Schedule. ".
THE SCHEDULE NO. IV
INDUSTRIAL TAX
Column I Column II
Purpose for which authority is given Annual value of the premises (Rs.)
From From Exceeding
Rs. 01- Rs. 750 Rs. 750-Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Running a business of preparing coconut husk cutters 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Running a business of plumbing and electrician services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Producing and storing cool drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Running a business of producing exercise books 400 0 600 0 750 0
5. Running a business of manufacturing plastic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Running a business of producing and selling water bottles 300 0 500 0 750 0
7. Electric appliances producing centres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Rooffing tile industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–80/4
––––––––––––––––
W ARIYAPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-law on Itinerant Selling
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted under resolution No. XII of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30 th
August, 2012.
ANANDA JAY ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd September, 2011.

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1101
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha - Wariyapola has accepted at General Meeting held on 28.09.2010 that the By-law on itinerant selling and
then notified by Part IV(A) Extra Special Gazette Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,714 of 08.07.2011 which was made
by Hon. Minister in charge of subject of Local Government and the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,663 of
16.07.2010 and then declared in the Part IV(A) of Extra Special Gazette No. 1,703/18 of 28.04.2011 to the effect that it was adopted at
provincial Council meeting of North West held on 18.01.2011 should be accepted and it is proposed the charges should be imposed  and
levied as mentioned in Schedule below in terms of the said By-law for the year 2013.
SCHEDULE
ITINERANT SELLING
Column I Column II
Purpose for which the authority is given Annual value of the premises (Rs.)
From From Exceeding
Rs. 01-750 Rs. 750-1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Selling king coconut and young coconut 200 0 400 0 600 0
2. Selling packets of gram, wade, murukku and bites 200 0 400 0 600 0
3. Selling electric appliances 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Selling mushrooms 200 0 400 0 600 0
5. Selling textiles 300 0 500 0 800 0
6. Selling footwear 300 0 500 0 750 0
7. Selling shop items 300 0 500 0 750 0
8. Selling flower plants, vegetable plants and fruit plants 250 0 500 0 750 0
9. Selling books and newspapers 300 0 500 0 750 0
10. Supplying building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Packeting and selling of grains 300 0 500 0 750 0
12. Selling vegetables and fruits 200 0 400 0 600 0
13. Selling artificial flowers 300 0 500 0 750 0
14. Mobile bank services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Selling joss sticks, pieces of cloths used for lighting oil lamps and
other offerings used in temples, hindu kovils etc. 200 0 400 0 600 0
16. Selling lotteries 200 0 400 0 600 0
17. Selling watches 250 0 500 0 750 0
11–80/12
–––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA  – WARIYAPOLA
Recovery of Service charges, format charges and other charges for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted under resolution No. X of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30th August
for imposing and recovery and of charges as mentioned in Schedule below from 01.01.2013 until amendment is made in respect of
providing services for the year 2013 within Pradeshiya Sabha limits Wariyapola.
A
NANDA JA YALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha-Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1102
RESOLUTION
It is hereby proposed that, the license fee by powers vested by section 26 of National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980
amendmed by Act, No. 56 of 1988 inspection fees for non vesting in terms of section 49(7) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act and the fees
mentioned in Schedule below in terms of powers vested under Housing and Town planning ordinance and Housing and Town Development
Ordinance should be imposed and recovered for the year 2013.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Rs. cts.
1. Environmental application fee 500 0
2. Inspection fee As per the valuation
3. Application for renewal of environmental license 250 0
4. Environmental license fee 1,250 0
5. Advance circuit charges for construction of new buildings
Area Houses Business places
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Up to 2,000 square feet 500 0 750 0
For every additional 100 square feet in exceeding to 2,000 square feet 100 0 200 0
6. For construction parapet walls 1 sq. ft. 2 0 4 0
7. Fees for street lines and non vesting certificates 600 0
8. Street line inspection fees 500 0
9. Building application fees 500 0
10. Building application infection fees 500 0
11. Building application and extension of validation period maximum up to 03 years
Year Houses Business places
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
First Year 100 0 100 0
Second Year 100 0 200 0
Third Year 100 0 300 0
12. Recovery of fine for illicit construction within Sabha limits.
(i) Parapets walls – Two fold of circuit charges per 1 sq. ft.
(ii) Recovery of charges of granting covering approval for illicit constructed buildings within town limits
Description (for a 1m
2) Residential Businesses
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
(i) When completed up to foundation 25 0 25 0
(ii) When completed up to roof 40 0 50 0
(iii) When completed up to including roof 60 0 100 0
(iv) Entirely completed 100 0 150 0
13. Issuing certificate of conformity Housing Business
1,000 0 2,000 0
14. Fees for weekly fair stalls : Rs. cts.
(i) For a 8' x 8' size stall 175 0
(ii) For a 8' x 8' size open area 100 0

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1103
Other charges and Tarif of Pradeshiya Sabha  :
Rs. cts.
Library membership fees – Adults 75 0
– Children 50 0
Tenders fines 10 0
Fees for approval of plans 500 0
Library application fees 15 0
For changing the name in the valuation list 30 0
15. Issuing of conformity certificates
(For newly constructed buildings within Pradeshiya Sabha limits)
Area Residential Business
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Up to 270 m
2 100 0 100 0
At a rate of Rs.  1% for every additional 1m 2
16. Recovery of charges for approval of blocking plans of Sub division of the land
Extent Development plan Sub Division Service Charge
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Less than 01 Hec. 250 0 250 0 at a rate of 750 0
per one activity
01-02 Hec. 350 0 350 0 at a rate of 750 0
per one activity
02-04 Hec. 500 0 500 0 at a rate of 750 0
per one activity
Over 04 Hec. 750 0 750 0 at a rate of 750 0
per one activity
For relay tower constructed within Pradeshiya Sabha limits before taking approval (fine will be charged on the basis of the
capacity of the tower (cubic meter).
11–80/10
––––––––––––––––––––
WARIYAPOLA  PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Impossing License Fees and Tax – Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted under resolution I of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30th August, 2012
by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha Wariyapola under section 149 read with section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
ANANDA JAY ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is proposed that a license fee should be imposed and recovered as shown in Column II of the Schedule below in respect of
licenses which will be issued in the year 2013 by the Pradeshiya Sabha, granting permission to use any permises within Pradeshiya Sabha
limits Wariyapola for any purpose which are described in section 149 read with section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1 987 or
a By-law made under that and shown in the Column I of the same Schedule.

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1104
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Purpose for which authority is given Annual value of the premises
From From Exceeding
Rs. 01-750 Rs. 750-1,000 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Running a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Running an eating house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Running a tea or coffee outlet 300 0 500 0 800 0
4. Running a canteen 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Running a salon 300 0 500 0 750 0
6. Running a fish stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Selling frozen meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Running a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Running a place for selling eggs 350 0 500 0 750 0
10. Running a mutton stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Running a chicken stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Running a pork stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Running a cattle slaughter house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Running a pig slaughter house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Running a chicken farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Running a place for registration of pawning 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Running a place for selling milk 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
18. Running an ice factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Running a cool drink factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Running a laundry 300 0 600 0 800 0
21. Running a pig farm (over 04) 300 0 600 0 800 0
22. Running a pig farm (below 04) 250 0 500 0 700 0
23. Maintenance of a cattle shed 350 0 500 0 1,000 0
24. Running a public market 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Running a private market 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Running a rest house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Running a lodge and rest house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–80/1
–––––––––––––––––––––
WARIYAPOLA   PRADESHIYA    SABHA
By-law on unpleasant, Dangerous and Unpleasant and Dangerous Business Activities
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted under resolution II of Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 30th Au gust,
2012.
ANANDA JA Y ALA TH,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Wariyapola.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Wariyapola,
02nd October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha has accepted at general meeting held on 28.09.2010 that the By-law on unpleasant, Dangerous and unpleasant
and Dangerous trade activities. which was made by Hon. Minister in charge of subject of Local Government and then published in Part
IV(A) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,663 of 16.07.2010 and then declared in the Part IV(a) of extra

<!-- page 47 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1105
special Gazette No. 1,703/18 of held on 28.04.2011 to the effect that it was adopted at Provincial Council meeting of held on North West
held on 18.01.2011 should be accepted and it is proposed that charges should be imposed and levied as mentioned in the Schedule below
in the terms of the said By-law for the year 2013.
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Purpose for which license is issued Annual value of the premises
From From Exceeding
Rs. 01-750 Rs. 750-1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Unpleasant Business  :
1. Producing and selling of murukku, Wade and bite packets 500 0 600 0 1,000 0
2. Running a dry fish stall 500 0 650 0 1,000 0
3. Producing and selling of animal foods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Producing and selling milk, yoghurt and ice cream 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Running a place for repairing tinned fruits, fish or other foods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Running a place for manufacturing syrup or fruit juice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Running a rice mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Running a grinding mill 350 0 500 0 800 0
9. Jem cutting and polishing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Running a place for storing cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Running a place for manufacturing and selling plastic furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. A place for re-charging and repairing of batterieis 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
13. Running a place for manufacturing and selling wood furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Maintenance of a carpentary shed 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
15. Concrete products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Running a hardware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Running a lab 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Running a place for selling clay items 400 0 600 0 750 0
19. Maintenance of a dental or place for making dentures 500 0 600 0 1,000 0
20. Running a cushion workshop 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
21. Dental clinics 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Running a place for producing sweets 500 0 650 0 1,000 0
23. Running a catering service 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Running a place for vulcanizing of tyre tubes 300 0 500 0 750 0
25. Running a rice mill operated by machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Running a place for seasoning leathers 350 0 500 0 750 0
27. Running a place for producing and selling organic manure and fertilizers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Running a coir industry by using soacked coconut husks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Running a place for producing soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Running a place for producing and selling footwear 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Running a place for producing spices 350 0 600 0 1,000 0
32. Running a place for re-building of tyres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. Running a place for producing cement blocks by using machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34. Running a brick industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. Running a place for producing coconut charcoal and timber charcoal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Running a carpentry shed operated by machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37. Producing caneware 400 0 650 0 850 0
38. Producing cosmetics 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. Running a place for grinding coffee, grain, etc. 350 0 500 0 750 0
40. Running a place for art work (sculpture carving) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Running a place for repairing three wheelers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. Running a bridal dressing centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. Running a place for painting of vehicles 400 0 600 0 1,000 0
44. Running a place for manufacturing candles 300 0 500 0 750 0
45. Running a business for selling leather 300 0 500 0 750 0

<!-- page 48 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1106
46. Animal husbandry (meat, milk or eggs) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Running a bsuiness for selling maldive fish 300 0 500 0 750 0
48. Maintenance of a veterinary infirmary 300 0 500 0 750 0
49. Keeping perishable food items or food materials for wholesale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. Keeping salted fish or dry fish - over 150kg. 300 0 500 0 750 0
51. Preparing fish or meat by adding salt or ice or by drying 300 0 500 0 750 0
52. Running a business for drying tobacco 300 0 500 0 750 0
53. Producing poonac 300 0 500 0 800 0
54. Making steel trunks 300 0 500 0 750 0
55. Keeping new and old metal 300 0 500 0 850 0
56. Producing brushes (except for tooth brushes) 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
57. Producing tooth brushes 300 0 500 0 750 0
58. Collecting toddy 250 0 500 0 750 0
59. Producing vinegar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
60. Running a business of sawing timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
61. Running a business of producing paint, varnish or distemper 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
62. Running a business of producing soda 300 0 500 0 800 0
63. Fibre painting 250 0 500 0 750 0
64. Producing leather items 300 0 500 0 750 0
65. Producing baking powder 300 0 500 0 750 0
66. Producing gas mantel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
67. Producing potty 300 0 500 0 750 0
68. Producing campher 250 0 500 0 750 0
69. Producing writing ink, paid ink or stencils 300 0 500 0 750 0
70. Producing washing blue 200 0 400 0 750 0
71. Producing sealing wax 250 0 500 0 750 0
72. Producing cosmetics 250 0 500 0 800 0
73. Producing school chalk 250 0 500 0 750 0
74. Producing tyres or tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
75. Producing cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
76. Producing sand paper 300 0 500 0 750 0
77. Making bricks 300 0 500 0 750 0
78. Weaving textiles by using machines (power looms) 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
79. Producing acid or re-packing 300 0 500 0 750 0
80. Selling empty gunnies used for packing fertilizer,
lime flour or other materials 200 0 400 0 600 0
81. Running a super market 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
82. Running a place for aquatic animals and plants 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
83. Running a place for collecting milk 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
84. Running a place for producing, storing and selling of animal food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
85. Orthopaedic dispensary 300 0 500 0 800 0
86. Running a place for selling brake liners 350 0 600 0 800 0
87. Producing artificial flowers 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
88. Running a business of packeting salt 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
89. Multi purpose co-operative societies 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
90. Running a coir mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
91. Producing and selling herbal gruvel 200 0 400 0 600 0
92. Running a business of boiling and drying of paddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
93. Running a hotel and rest house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
94. Cultivating mushroom 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
95. Running a place for packeting tea 350 0 600 0 1,000 0
96. Running a place for distributing bakery materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
97. Running a retails hop and tea stall 350 0 500 0 750 0
Column I Column II
Purpose for which license is issued Annual value of the premises
From From Exceeding
Rs. 01-750 Rs. 750-1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 49 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1107
SCHEDULE NO. II
Column I Column II
Purpose for which license is issued Annual value of the premises
From From Exceeding
Rs. 01-750 Rs. 750-1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Dangerous Business :
1. Running a press operated by electric current 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Running a metal quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Running a metal crusher operated by machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Running a black smithy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Running a business for repairing of refrigerators 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Running a place for selling gas filled cylinders 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Running a place for repairing of injector pumps 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Running a metal crusher 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Running a place for electrician 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. A place for storing fireworks or crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. A place for storing and selling of firewood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Running a business of producing stone monument 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Running a place for selling glasses 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Running a place for repairing sewing machines 400 0 600 0 1,000 0
15. A place for cutting and repairing of keys 400 0 600 0 1,000 0
16. Running a place for repairing of gas cookers 350 0 600 0 750 0
17. Running a business of producing copra 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Repairing of radios, cassettes, televisions and computers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Fuel transportation 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Producing and repairing jewelleries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Producing vegetable oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Producing coconut oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Producing and storing boxes of matches 300 0 500 0 800 0
24. Producing methylated spirit 300 0 500 0 750 0
25. Producing tea chests 200 0 400 0 600 0
26. Producing coir or other fibres 300 0 500 0 750 0
27. Producing goods by using coir or other fibres 300 0 500 0 800 0
28. For storing hey 200 0 400 0 600 0
29. For storing used garments 200 0 400 0 600 0
30. For sawing timber by using machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. For mining of coral lime stones or lime stones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Running a factory used machineries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. For keeping empty gunny or empty bottles 200 0 400 0 600 0
34. Running a business of repairing foot bicycles or motor cycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. For keeping used newspapers or papers 300 0 500 0 750 0
36. For scattered painting 300 0 500 0 750 0
37. For a stain and steel workshop 350 0 500 0 1,000 0
38. A place for carbon saws 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. Running a place for vehicle motor winding 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. Running a petroleum filling centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Running a place for sewing clothes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
S
CHEDULE NO. III
Unpleasant and Dangerous Business  :
1. Running a business of fabric painting, dyeing, dry cleaning or batik work 350 0 500 0 750 0
2. Running a place for making dyes 300 0 500 0 600 0
3. Running a welding shop 300 0 500 0 750 0

<!-- page 50 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1108
4. Running a place for repairing of motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. For a tinkering workshop 350 0 500 0 650 0
6. Running a business of manufacturing of motor vehicle bodies 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Running a business of producing mosquito coils 350 0 500 0 1,000 0
8. Running a lime stone or coral lime stone kiln 350 0 500 0 1,000 0
9. Running a foundry 350 0 600 0 750 0
10. Running a welding shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Running a vehicle service centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Running a place for selling agro chemicals 500 0 700 0 800 0
13. Running a motor bicycle service centre 400 0 600 0 800 0
14. Running a three wheeler service centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Running a place for producing brooms and ekel brooms 300 0 500 0 750 0
16. Running a place for selling building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Storing and selling unusable articles (old iron, bottles) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Running a place for fibre work 350 0 500 0 750 0
19. Running a place for lathe work 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Running a place for lathe machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Running a copper and iron remain market 300 0 600 0 850 0
22. Running a business for producing hand rail 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. For producing oil or animal fat 300 0 500 0 750 0
24. For producing cod liver oil 300 0 500 0 750 0
25. Crushing metal by using machines 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
26. For producing and re-filling of germicides, insecticides, 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
fungicides or pesticides
27. Running a place for carving brassware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Running a place for selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Running a pharmacy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Running a place for cutting coconut husk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Running a place for selling polythene 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Running a place for producing glouses 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–80/2
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA - KULIYAPITIYA
Imposing Tax for the years 2013 in respect of certain Business and Industries under Section 150
IT is hereby notified that on the motion on 3-iii proposed at the General Council held on 28.06.2012, the Pradeshiya Sabha decided to levy
a tax for the year 2013 on the basis of the annual value of certain business and industries mentioned in the Schedule below within the limtis
of Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya in terms of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act of 1987.
SAMPATH SUSANTHA KETAW ALAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya,
19th September, 2012.
Column I Column II
Purpose for which license is issued Annual value of the premises
From From Exceeding
Rs. 01-750 Rs. 750-1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 51 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1109
Where Annual Where Annual Where Annual
value does not value from Rs. 750 value exceed
exceed Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Running a place for selling lotteries
02. Running a record bar
03. Running a place for selling cloths
04. Running a place for selling shopping items
05. Running a place for hiring cassettes
06. Running a place for making calls
07. Running a place for photocoping, Ronio and typing
08. Drawing advertising boards and notices
09. Hiring public speaking systems, bulbs and stages
10. Hiring festival items
11. Running a driving school
12. Running a montessori (recovering charges)
13. Running a private English class by recovering money
14. Running a place for selling firwood
15. Running a place for selling western medicines
16. Running a place for selling Sinhala medicines
17. Running a place for selling bettles Maximum Maximum Maximum
18. Sale of spare parts for motor vehicles Rs. 500 Rs. 500-750 Rs. 750-1,000
19. Sale of gift items
20. Sale of motor bicycles and bicycles
21. Sale of ornamental flowers and plants
22. Sale of mediciens ready made garments
23. Framing pictures
24. Making dresses
25. Sale of newspapers and magazines
26. Running a cushion work shop
27. Running a grocery
28. Running an agency for transport of vehicles
29. Running a place for generating electricity
30. Providing internet facilities
31. Running a place for selling books
32. Preparing name tags
33. Sale of shoes/sandals
IMPOSING TAX FOR THE YEAR 2013 IN RESPECT OF CERTAIN BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONS UNDER SECTION 152
It is hereby notified that on the motion on 3-iii proposed at the General Council held on 28.06.2012, the Pradeshiya Sabha
Kuliyapitiya decided to impose a license duty on the besis of the annual value of business and business tax (industrial) on the basis of the
income of previous year in respect of certain trades in terms of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act of 1987.
The above mentioned license duty and business tax and on trades should be paid on or before 31st March, 2013.
Column I Column II
Rs. cts.
1. Where annual income does not exceed Rs. 6,000 nothing will be charged
2. Where annual income exceed Rs. 6,000 but does not exceed Rs. 12,000 90 0
3. Where annual income exceed Rs. 12,000 but does not exceed Rs. 18,750 180 0
4. Where annual income exceed Rs. 18,750 but does not exceed Rs. 75,000 360 0
5. Where annual income exceed Rs. 75,000 but does not exceed Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
6. Where annual income exceed Rs. 150,000 3,000 0

<!-- page 52 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1110
Professions and businesses from which taxes are levied :
1. Commission Agents
2. Functioning as a auctioneer and broker
3. Functioning as a pawn broker
4. Functioning as a contractor
5. Functioning as an accounting auditor
6. Functioning as a architecture
7. Functioning as a insurance agents
8. Functioning as a money lender
9. Functioning as an owner or main services
10. Functioning as a instructor for inocme tax or labour laws
11. Running a surveyors office
12. Running an office for notary public
13. Running a lawyers office
14. Running a service of a western medical specialist
15. Running a service of a indigenous medical specialist
16. Running a dental surgery
17. Functioning as a lottery agent
18. Functioning as an undertaker for betting
19. Running rural banks and commercial banks
20. Functioning as a job agent
21. Functioning as a importer of googs
22. Functioning as a exporter of good
23. Running private hospitals
24. Running private tuitions
25. Communication towers
11-12/2
––––––––––––––––
KULIYAPITIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Impossing License Duty for the year 2013
IT is hereby notified that on the motion on 3-iii proposed at the General Council held on 28.06.2012, the Pradeshiya Sabha has decided
to impose and annual license duty based on annual value as mentioned in the schedule below in respect of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Kuliyapitiya for the year 2013 in terms of section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
It is further notified that the license should obtained by making payment for the relevant business before 31st March, 2013.
S
AMPATH SUSANTHA KETAW ALAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya,
19th September, 2012.
Where Annual Where Annual Where Annual
value does not value from Rs. 750 value exceed
exceed Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Running a mettal quarry
02. Manufacture of gram and bites
03. Packeting and selling ice packets Maximum Maximum Maximum
04. Running a tea or coffies boutique Rs. 500 Rs. 500-750 Rs. 750-1,000
05. Running a tea or coffies boutique

<!-- page 53 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1111
06. Manufacture of coconut oil by machineries
07. Running and oil milk
08. Manufacture of coir or other fibers (coir mill)
09. Manufacture of coir products or other fiber products
10. Twisting ropes
11. Running a timber mill
12. Running a timber mill operate machinery
13. Production and repair of jewelery
14. Running a smithy
15. Storing and sale of empty gunny bags and bottles
16. Repair of bicycles
17. Storing crackers
18. Running a electrically operated press
19. Running a manually operated press
20. Manufacture of tiles by machinery
21. Cart of kerosene oil
22. From 5-10 berrels of kerosene oil
23. More than 10 berrels of kerosene oil
24. Winding marcher (motor)
25. Running a lathe machine
26. Running a place for storing batteries
27. Repair of a Television
28. Repair of electric equipment
29. Running a gas filling center
30. Running a place for selling gas cylinders
31. Running a western dispensary (private)
32. Running a indigenous dispensary (private) Maximum Maximum Maximum
33. Storing and selling western medicines Rs. 500 Rs. 500-750 Rs. 750-1,000
34. Storing and selling indigenous medicines
35. Running place for making dentures
36. Running a power operated textile industry
37. Storing and selling building materials
38. Running place for sand mining
39. Storing and sale of book, stationeries and shopping items
40. Sale of mixed manure (artificial)
41. Sale of agro chemicals and agro equipments
42. Manufactuer of coconut charcol
43. Running a coconut charcol pitch
44. Running a whole sale of cigarette and tobbaco
45. Manufacturer of soap
46. Storing used metal ware
47. Running a carpenter shed
48. Manufactuer and sale of coconut timber
49. manufactuer and sale of cold drinks
50. manufactuer of sweets
51. Storing coir
52. Combing and drying coir
53. manufactuer of coir products
54. painting fiber
55. Paint or varnish
56. Grinding spices such as chillies, coffee
57. Vulcanizing tires and tubes
Where Annual Where Annual Where Annual
value does not value from Rs. 750.00 value exceed
exceed Rs. 750.00 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 54 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1112
58. Running a tea or coffee boutique
59. Repair of tires by machineriec
60. Manufacture or sale of pipes made of concrete or clay
61. Manufacture of fiber glass ware
62. Running cement block work shop
63. Manufacture and kilning brickes
64. Running a bakery
65. Manufacture of papadam
66. Storing cashew nuts and manufacture of cashew nuts
67. Running a milk bar
68. Manufacture and sale of coppra
69. Running a place for manufacturing dedicated coconut
70. Kilning lime
71. Running gravel quarry
72. Running clay qurry
73. Running a catering service
74. Running a restaurant
75. Collection and sale of coconut
76. Running a cool drink bar
77. Sale of Sinhala medicines
78. Manufacture of garments
79. Manufacture of bathik
80. Manufacture of garments
81. Manufacture and sale of coffins
82. Running a place for carving wood
Unpleasant Business :
01. Curing leather Maximum Maximum Maximum
02. Manufacture of leather products Rs. 500 Rs. 500-750 Rs. 750-1,000
03. Running a diary farm (05-25 cows)
04. Running a diary farm (25-50 cows)
05. Running a diary farm (exceeding 50 cows)
06. Running a poultry farm (100 birds)
07. Running a poultry farm (exceeding 100 birds)
08. Running a poultry farm (exceeding 200 birds)
09. Running a goat farm
10. Running a cattle farm (05-25 cows)
11. Running a cattle farm (25-50 cows)
12. Running a grocery
13. Running a place for storing dried fish
14. Running a dried fish sales outlet
15. Storing and sale of poultry food
16. Running a place stores of animal food
17. Running a place for collecting toddy
18. Manufacture of vinegar
19. Running a place for selling fruits
20. Running a place for selling vegetables
21. Running a place for selling fresh meat
22. Running a slaughterhouse
23. Running a place for selling frozen meat and fish
24. Running a place for storing eggs
25. Running a private fish stall
26. Itinerant sale of fish
27. Running a place for collecting milk
Where Annual Where Annual Where Annual
value does not value from Rs. 750.00 value exceed
exceed Rs. 750.00 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 55 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1113
Unpleasant and Dangerous Business  :
01. Running a laundry
02. Manufacture of crackers
03. Running a place for recharging batteries
04. Running a welding workshop of grill workshop
05. Repair of motor vehicles
06. Running a service center for vehicles
07. Running a tin workshop Maximum Maximum Maximum
08. Running a garage for making bodies for vehicles Rs. 500 Rs. 500-Rs. 750 Rs. 750-Rs. 1,000
09. Running a snack bar
10. Running a tailor shop
11. Running a saloon
12. Storing and selling cement
13. Running a whole sale of perishable spices
14. Repair of motor bicycles
15. Manufacture of metal ware
11-12/1
––––––––––––––––
BUTTALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition of Tax and License - 2013
IN terms of section 149, 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 it is hereby notified that the resolution was adopted at the monthly
meeting of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha held on 04.09.2012 that an annual licence fee and industrial tax on certain businesses/indu stries/
maintained within the jurisdiction of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha should be imposed and levied as applicable based on their annual  values
as referred to in the following schedules for the year 2013 and such licence fees and taxes should be paid before 31st March, 2 013.
Deshabandu DAMA YANTHA DOLEWATTA,
Chairman,
Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Buttala Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.
SCHEDULE  No. 1
LEVY OF LICENCE FEES UNDER SECTION 149 OF PRADESHIYA SABHA ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not exceeding from Rs. 751 to exceeding
Nature of the Business Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Dangerous Business :
1. Maintenance of a quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Crushing metal, mechanized crusher 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Maintenance of a place for metal breaking 500 0 600 0 750 0
4. Maintenance of a lime kiln 350 0 500 0 750 0
5. Maintenance of a brick kiln 400 0 500 0 750 0
6. Storing and sale of gas cylinders 500 0 600 0 750 0
7. Tinkering and spray printing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Where Annual Where Annual Where Annual
value does not value from Rs. 750.00 value exceed
exceed Rs. 750.00 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 56 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1114
8. Repair of air conditioners 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Maintenance of a fiber glass workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Maintenance of a laundry 100 0 150 0 200 0
Offensive (hazardous) Business  :
1. Maintenance of an eating house 350 0 500 0 800 0
2. Maintenance of a tea shop 350 0 500 0 750 0
3. Maintenance of a bakery 350 0 500 0 750 0
4. Maintenance of a restaurant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Maintenance of a cattle 250 0 350 0 400 0
6. Maintenance of a gorcery (with coconut oil and kerosene) 350 0 500 0 750 0
7. Maintenance of a wholesale and retail stores 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Maintenance of a place for sale of frozen food (meat and fish) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Maintenance of a barber's shop 400 0 600 0 800 0
10. Maintenance of a place for sale of fresh water fish 350 0 500 0 1,000 0
11. Maintenance of a place for sale of sea fish 350 0 500 0 1,000 0
12. Maintenance of a place for sale of meat –
(i) Sale of beef 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
(ii) Sale of mutton 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
(iii) Sale of chicken 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Maintenance of a slaughter house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Maintenance of a vegetable stall 350 0 350 0 750 0
15. Maintenance of a fruit stall 250 0 350 0 500 0
16. Maintenance of a carpenter’s shop (Mechanized) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Maintenance of a carpenter’s shop (Non-mechanized) 350 0 500 0 750 0
18. Maintenance of a machanized carpenter’s workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Maintenance of a workshop 250 0 350 0 500 0
20. Maintenance of a rice mill
(i) 1-10 H. P. 350 0 400 0 500 0
(ii) Exceeding 10 H. P. 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Maintenance of a saw mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Maintenance of a grinding mill 350 0 500 0 750 0
23. Storing and sale of lime in bulk 200 0 250 0 300 0
24. Maintenance of a motor garage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Maintenance of a motor vehicle service centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Maintenance of a lathe 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Maintenance of a welding workshop 400 0 600 0 800 0
28. Maintenance of a place for storing and sale of fertilizers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Maintenance of a place for storing and sale of agro chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Maintenance of a place for making iron grills, gates and fences 350 0 500 0 750 0
31. Maintenance of a place for processing copra 150 0 200 0 350 0
32. Maintenance of an animal farm 150 0 250 0 350 0
33. Maintenance of a place for the production of beedy and cigar 150 0 200 0 250 0
34. Maintenance of a place for the production and sale of cenfectionery 250 0 350 0 500 0
35. Maintenance of a place for the production of soaps 300 0 400 0 500 0
36. For spice shop 200 0 300 0 500 0
37. A place for the production of milk food, ice cream and yoghurt 300 0 400 0 500 0
38. A place for repair of tyres (Mechanized) 400 0 600 0 800 0
39. A place for the repair of motor cycles, three-wheelers 400 0 600 0 800 0
40. Making and storing coffins and maintenance of a florist 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Storing ayurvedic drugs 200 0 300 0 400 0
42. A place for repair of refrigerators 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. A place for the production of cool drinks 350 0 500 0 750 0
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not exceeding from Rs. 751 to exceeding
Nature of the Business Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 57 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1115
44. A fruit drinks spot 250 0 350 0 500 0
45. A place for the collection of empty bottels, gunny sacks and 150 0 200 0 250 0
old newspapers
46. Maintenance of a lodge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Maintenance of a place for processing and drying tobaccos 400 0 550 0 800 0
48. Maintenance of a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49. Maintenance of a chinese restaurant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. Maintenance of an electric powered press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51. Maintenance of a manually operated press 300 0 500 0 750 0
52. Maintenance of a club 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53. Maintenance of a sport club 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54. Maintenance of an agricultural farm 350 0 500 0 700 0
55. Maintenance of a nursery 350 0 500 0 700 0
56. Production and sale of reinforced concrete items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
57. Production of cement blocks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
58. Maintenance of a place for storing and sale of sand, bricks 350 0 500 0 750 0
SCHEDULE No. II
I
MPOSITION OF TAX ON BUSINESSES/INDUSTRIES UNDER SECTION 150 OF PRADESHIYA SABHA ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987
1. Maintenance of a shop 250 0 350 0 500 0
2. Maintenance of a studio 400 0 600 0 800 0
3. Maintenance of a furniture shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Maintenance of a place for sale of furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Maintenance of a place for charging battery 150 0 200 0 300 0
6. Maintenance of a hardware shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. A place for sale of ceramics 250 0 350 0 500 0
8. Maintenance of a tin workshop 150 0 200 0 250 0
9. Maintenance of a place for the purchase and sale of cereals 350 0 400 0 500 0
10. A place for sale of sewing machine spare parts 400 0 600 0 800 0
11. A place for sale of electrical applicances 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. A place for sale of computer accessaries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. A place for sale of vehicle spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. A place for sale of bicycle and motor bicycle spare parts 250 0 350 0 500 0
15. A place for sale and repair of jewellery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. A place of readymade garments 200 0 300 0 400 0
17. A tailor's shop 200 0 250 0 350 0
18. A place for framing pictures 200 0 250 0 300 0
19. A place for sale of stationary 200 0 250 0 300 0
20. A place for repair of watches and clocks 200 0 250 0 300 0
21. A place for sale of betal and arecanuts 150 0 200 0 250 0
22. A place for storing and sale of cement 200 0 350 0 500 0
23. A place for storing cocoa and dried papaya milk 200 0 300 0 400 0
24. A place for sale of king coconuts and young coconuts 100 0 150 0 200 0
25. A place for the repair of radios 200 0 300 0 400 0
26. A pharmacy 350 0 400 0 500 0
27. A place for sale of beedy and ciga 150 0 200 0 250 0
28. A place for the production of joss - sticks 200 0 250 0 300 0
29. Maintenance of a mobile sale 200 0 250 0 350 0
30. A decorated pottery outlet 350 0 400 0 500 0
31. A place for hiring pubilc address system 250 0 350 0 500 0
32. A place for the production of items with coir or coir fiber 100 0 150 0 200 0
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not exceeding from Rs. 751 to exceeding
Nature of the Business Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 58 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1116
33. A communication centre 300 0 400 0 500 0
34. A place for storing coconut char-coal or char-coal 100 0 150 0 200 0
35. A place for vulcanizing tyres or tubes 250 0 350 0 400 0
36. Maintenance of a cool spot 250 0 350 0 400 0
37. Maintenance of a grocery 350 0 500 0 750 0
38. A place for the sale of kapok or cotton 150 0 200 0 250 0
39. A place for the production of dry batteries and batteries 250 0 350 0 450 0
40. A co-operative outlet (regional) 350 0 400 0 500 0
41. A place for processing mica 350 0 400 0 500 0
42. Maintenance of a coir mill 200 0 300 0 400 0
43. A place for the production of jaggery 250 0 300 0 400 0
44. A place for a billiards table 200 0 300 0 500 0
45. Maintenance of a Notary Public office 350 0 500 0 750 0
46. Maintenance of a coconut timber depot 350 0 500 0 750 0
47. A place for making bobins 250 0 350 0 500 0
48. A place for storing tobacco 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49. Rubber smoking place 300 0 400 0 500 0
50. A place for making rubber seals 300 0 400 0 500 0
51. A place for the production and sale of ice-cream 250 0 350 0 500 0
52. A place for collecting and freezing milk 250 0 350 0 400 0
53. A place for storage and sale of footware 300 0 400 0 500 0
54. Production and storage of concrete or clay pipes and items 350 0 500 0 750 0
55. A place for the sale of radios and televisions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
56. A place for the repairs of radios, televisions 300 0 500 0 750 0
57. A place for gem cutting and polishing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
58. A place for wholesale of cigarettes 400 0 600 0 400 0
59. A video centre 300 0 500 0 700 0
60. A lottery outlet 300 0 400 0 500 0
61. A dental surgery 350 0 500 0 600 0
62. An advertising firm 400 0 600 0 800 0
63. Tyres and tubes outlet 300 0 500 0 750 0
64. A timber depot 350 0 500 0 700 0
65. A record bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
66. A place for bridle dressign 350 0 500 0 750 0
67. Maintenance of a reception hall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
68. A place for the sale of brass items 300 0 400 0 500 0
69. A place for making lorry bodies 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
70. Maintenance of a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
71. A place for packeting and sale of tea 200 0 300 0 400 0
72. A place for supply of gardent cleaning/landscaping services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
73. A mushroom cultivation 250 0 350 0 500 0
11–145/1
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not exceeding from Rs. 751 to exceeding
Nature of the Business Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 59 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1117
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 60 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'02
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.11.2012
1118
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
NOVEMBER 02.11.2012 Friday — 19.10.2012 Friday 12 noon
09.11.2012 Friday –– 25.10.2012 Thursday 12 noon
16.11.2012 Friday –– 02.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
23.11.2012 Friday –– 09.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
30.11.2012 Friday –– 16.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 07.12.2012 Friday — 23.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
14.12.2012 Friday –– 30.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
21.12.2012 Friday –– 07.12.2012 Friday 12 noon
28.12.2012 Friday –– 14.12.2012 Friday 12 noon
2013
JANUARY 04.01.2013 Friday — 21.12.2012 Friday 12 noon
11.01.2013 Friday –– 28.12.2012 Friday 12 noon
18.01.2013 Friday –– 04.01.2013 Friday 12 noon
24.01.2013 Thursday –– 11.01.2013 Friday 12 noon
B. K. S. R AVINDRA,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.