

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2015
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1904$57 - 2015 ud¾;= ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'03'06
No. 1904/57 - FRIDAY ,   MARCH   06,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
P. S. No. : CSA/7/COI/MS/01
MAITHRIPALA  SIRISENA
By His Excellency Maithripala Sirisena
President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
To :
1. Hon. Justice Wewage Priyasath Gerard Dep Esquire, PC
Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Hon. Justice Anil Goonaratne Esquire
Judge of the Supreme Court
3. Kulatunga Mudiyanselage Gihan Himanshu Kulatunga Esquire
Judge of the High Court
4. Sarath Chandrasiri Mayadunne Esquire
Retired Auditor General
5. Aiyathurai Gnanathasan  Esquire, PC
Retired Additional Solicitor General
Greetings  !
WHEREAS,  a large number of serious complaints and allegations have been and are being made and information is being
received against persons who have held or continue to hold political office and those who have been or continue to be public
servants and officers of statutory bodies, regarding acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation
of property, cheating, and abuse or misuse of power or authority, State resources and privileges, which offences and acts of
wrongdoing occurred during the period 10th January 2010 to 10th January 2015, and have resulted in serious loss or damage
to State assets and revenue,
AND WHEREAS, no independent, impartial and comprehensive criminal and other investigations and inquiries have
been conducted with regard to such complaints, allegations and information with the view to ascertaining the veracity of such
complaints, allegations and information,
1A
 Seal
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2015
2A
AND WHEREAS, I am of the opinion that it is in the interest of public security and welfare, to cause the conduct of
investigations and inquiries into such complaints, allegations and information, in order to determine what measures should be
taken to provide for and ensure that the law is appropriately enforced and wrongdoers dealt with in terms of the law, and that
there will be no recurrence of such alleged acts amounting to offences and abuse or misuse of power of authority ;
WHEREAS, I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigate and inquire
into and report or take necessary action on matters hereinafter referred to and provided for ;
NOW THEREFORE, I, Maithripala Sirisena, the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing
great trust and confidence in your integrity, prudence, ability and fidelity, do, in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the
Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393), by these presents appoint you, the said  :
1. Hon. Justice Wewage Priyasath Gerard Dep Esquire, PC
Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Hon. Justice Anil Goonaratne Esquire
Judge of the Supreme Court
3. Kulatunga Mudiyanselage Gihan Himanshu Kulatunga Esquire
Judge of the High Court
4. Sarath Chandrasiri Mayadunne Esquire
Retired Auditor General
5. Aiyathurai Gnanathasan  Esquire, PC
Retired Additional Solicitor General
to be my Commissioners to investigate and inquire into, take necessary action and report on the following matters namely :
1. To call for and receive public complaints, information and other material relating to serious allegations against
persons who have held or continue to hold political office, those who have been or continue to be public
servants and officers of statutory bodies, regarding acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal
misappropriation of property, cheating and abuse or misuse of power, State resources and privileges, which
offences and acts of wrongdoing occurred during the period 10th January 2010 to 10th January 2015 and have
resulted in serious loss or damage to State assets and State revenue ;
2. To conduct prompt, impartial, comprehensive investigations and inquiries into complaints, information and
allegations referred to in paragraph 1 above ;
3. To identify persons who have been or are responsible in terms of the law for committing such offences, acts of
wrongdoing, and abuse or misuse of power or authority, state resources and privileges ;
4. To identify and collect evidence available with regard to such offences and acts of wrongdoing as referred to in
paragraph 1 above, and against persons responsible for having committed offences connected with such incidents,
and wrongdoing ;
5. To identify which of the acts coming within the ambit of matters referred to in paragraph 1 above, should be
forwarded to the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption or to the Police or to any other
law enforcement authority or statutory body for the conduct of necessary investigations and inquiries with the
view to instituting criminal proceedings against persons alleged to have committed the said offences ;
6. To transmit to the Attorney General investigational and inquiry material, enabling the Attorney General to
consider the institution of criminal proceedings against persons alleged to have committed the said offences and
prosecute the accused ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2015
3A
7. To present to me recommendations of the Commission regarding what action if any, should be taken against
those held responsible for having committed offences and acts of wrongdoing and recommendations aimed at
preventing the occurrence of such offences and acts of wrongdoing in the future ;
AND, I do hereby appoint you the said Hon. Justice Wewage Priyasath Gerard Dep Esquire, PC, Judge of the
Supreme Court to be the Chairman of the said Commission.
AND, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to conduct or cause the conduct of necessary
criminal and forensic investigation and inquiries and hold all such public and or confidential inquiries, into the aforesaid
matters as may appear to you to be necessary, and require you to transmit to me within two months from the date of this warrant
the first Interim Report, and thereafter subsquent interim reports once in two months, and the Final Report within One Y ear of
the date hereof under your hand, setting out the findings of your investigations and inquiries, and your recommendations
relating thereto.
AND, I  hereby direct that any three Commissioners from among you shall participate in the Commission meetings to
fulfill its quorum.
AND, I do hereby direct that such part of any investigation or inquiry relating to the aforesaid matters as you may in
your discretion determine, shall not be held in public.
AND, I do hereby require and direct all public servants and officers of statutory bodies, and other persons to whom
you may apply for assistance or information, to render all such assistance and furnish all such information required for
investigations or inquiries as may be properly rendered and furnished in that behalf.
AND, I do hereby declare that the provisions of section 14 of the aforesaid Commissions of Inquiry Act shall apply
to this Commission.
Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, on this 03rd day of March, 2015.
                                                                                          By order of His Excellency,
P. B. A
BEYKOON
Secretary to the President
03-625
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.