

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
HEADANG EDUCATION FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. (Ms.) Kamala Ranathunga M. P .
on 10th February 2011
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Headang Education Foundation
——————
——————
[Bill No. 74]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on 31st  January, 2011)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Headang Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  HEADANG  EDUCA TION  FOUNDA TION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Headang
Education Foundation” has heretofore been established for
the purpose of effectually carrying out and transaction all
objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Headang Education
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Headang
Education Foundation” or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the “Headang Education Foundation” shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter  referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and the style of
the “Headang Education Foundation”, and by that name may
sue and be sued in all Courts, with full  power and authority
to have and use a common seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to initiate early childhood development centers in
order to guide children to schools ;
(b) to establish children’s parks that will be helpful in
the mental and physical development of children ;
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Headang
Education
Foundation
General
objects of the
Corporation.
10
Preamble.
5
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Headang Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
2
(c) to print, publish, distribute books, magazines,
newspaper and journals and to establish and maintain
libraries ;
(d) to provide books, equipments, clothing, computers
and accessories, loans and other financial assistance
to the needy children of low income families ;
(e) to establish centers with residential facilities for the
provision of education to children of low income
families who have lost either mother or father and for
children of vulnerable families whose parents are
employed overseas and to integrate children with
schools ;
(f) to establish Information Techonology Centers
throughout the island to enhance science education
and develop the country ;
(g) to establish and develop schools to provide education
in English medium, and to provide common amenities
and maintain the same ;
(h) to initial, develop and maintain Dhamma schools for
Buddhist Dhamma school education ;
(i) to work in close collaboration with local and foreign
governmental and non-governmental organizations
to provide education and vocational training for
students ;
(j) to implement projects to generate income for the
Foundation ; and
(k) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary for
the accomplishment of all or any of the objects of the
Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25

<!-- page 4 -->

3Headang Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
4. Subject to the  provisions of this Act and any written
law, the Corporation shall have the power, including the
following, to do, perform and execute all such acts, matters
and things whatsoever as are necessary to desirable for the
promotion or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or
any one of them :—
(a) to acquire, hold, rent, lease, mortgage, pledge, sell,
exchange or engage in other manner or otherwise
dispose of any immovable property, required for the
purpose of the Corporation.
(b) to enter into, perform and execute all such
agreements or contracts necessary for the purpose
of accomplishing the functions or to execute the
powers of the Corporation either directly or through
an officer or an agent of the Corporation who is
duly authorized by the Corporation.
(c) to appeal for, receive and collect grants and
donations in cash or otherwise ;
(d) to invest the funds of the Corporation and to
maintain current or savings accounts in any bank ;
(e) to obtain loans or invest the monies required for the
purpose of the Corporation in a manner stipulated
as appropriate by the Corporation and with
guarantees deemed appropriate ;
(f) to publish or take action to publish books, journals,
magazines and other documents and to establish and
maintain libraries, bookshops, and printing houses ;
(g) to appoint, employ, transter and dismiss officers and
servants required for realizing the objects of the
Corporation and to maintain disciplinary control
over them and to stipulate terms and conditions
regards their service ;
10
5
15
20
25
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Headang Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
4
(h) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary,
incidental or beneficial to fulfill and accomplish
the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subjects to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation be
administered by an Executive Committee consisting of not
more than nine members as may be provided for in such rules
and consisting of the Chief Consultant, two Chairmen,
Administrative Director, Managing Director, Treasurer, three
members of the Board of Directors.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members holding office in the Foundation
on the day immidiately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation to make rules
with regard to all or any of the following matters from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make such rules, as are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law :—
(a) the election, appointment or nomination of members
of the Board of Management, their powers, functions
and their term of office ;
(b) the powers, conduct, role and functions of various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;
(c) the procedure to be adopted in convening and
holding the meetings of the Corporation and the
Board of Management, the time, venue, notices,
agenda, quorum and the general conduct of such
meetings ;
(d) qualifications and disqualifications for the
membership of the Board of Management of the
Corporation ;
10
5
15
20
25
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Headang Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and
maintenance and audit of its Accounts ; and
(f) the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added, amended or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The rules of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall, in so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other written
law, deemed to be rules of the Corporation made under this
section.
(4) The members of the Corporation shall be subjected to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and either the Administrative Director or the
Treasurer who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
gifts, donations subscriptions, fees or grants accepted for and
on behalf of the Corporation hereinafter shall be deposited
to the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Headang Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
6
(2) All monies required for settling the expenses incurred
by the Corporation in implementing and executing the
powers, duties and functions under this Act  shall be settled
from the fund.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounnts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accouts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor in this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an accountant issued by
such Institute ; or
(b) a firm of accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an accountant issued by such
Institute.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other Association or
associations having objects similar to the objects of the
Corporation and which is or are by the rules thereof prohibited
from distributing any income or property, among its or their
members. Such Association or Associations shall be
determined by the members of the Corporation at or
immediately before, the time of the dissolution of the
Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Accounts and
audit.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Headang Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
12. Nothing contained  in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from, or under
them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
5

<!-- page 9 -->

Headang Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.