

<!-- page 1 -->

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 17'12'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  29.12.2017
w;s úfYI
wxl 2051$35 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'12'29
No. 2051/35 -  FRIDAY   DECEMBER  29,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial Councils Notifications
 UVA   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Uva  Provincial  Council  Statute  No.  05  of   2017   of   Uva   Navodaya   Fund   (Amendment)
THE above statute having passed by the Provincial Council of the Uva Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka on the 09th of November, 2017 has been approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on th e date 11th of
December, 2017 and which is here by published for the notification of the public.
                 R. A. H. A. SAMARASINGHE,
                 Secretary,
                  Provincial  Council  of  the  Uva  Province.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
King's Street,
Badulla.
20th December 2017
UVA   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Statute  No. 05  of  2017 of Uva Navodaya Fund
THE  Statute No.  01  1992 of Uva Navodaya Fund is Statute to be  substitute in order to provide financial  assistance and
materials for the students in Uva Province those who got university entrance, talented students with the qualifications  to sit
for advanced level, to provide facilities to confirm the health of the school students in Uva Province, to appreciate the students
showing sporting talents, provide facilities, providing physical infrastructure facilities and to pr ovide provisions for other
things related to this in order to support to uplift the sports skills.
Enact as such by the Procincial Council of Uva Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A PG 3848 — 17 (12/2017)


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 17'12'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  29.12.2017
2 A
01. This Statute will be identified as the Statute No. 05 of 2017 of Uva Navodaya Fund, it will come to
effect from the date of approval by the Governor of Uva Province.
02. (1) (Hereafter will be mentioned as "fund") a fund should be established mentioned as Uva Navodaya
Fund.
(2) As per the name given in the paragraph (1) the fund is a corporation, there should be a continuous
survival and general stamp for that.  Further cases can be filled by the fund and against the fund
by this name.
03. (1) The administration, management and control should be assigned to the board established as
per the provisions provided hereafter
(2) (Hereafter will be mentioned as "board") the administrative board of the fund should include
the following members:
(a) The Chief Minister;
(b) The Education Minister of the Cabinet;
(c) Chief Secretary;
(d) The Secretary of the Education Ministry;
(e) The Secretary of the organization in charge of this Statute;
(f) Two representatives appointed by the Chief Minister, representating Tamil and Muslim
community;
(g) The opposition leader or the representative appointed by him
(h) Two opposition members of the Provincial Council appointed by the Opposition leader
(3) The Chief Minister should be the Chairman of the Board;
(4) The Secretary of the organization in charge of this statute should be the Secretary of this
board by ex-officio.  The Secretary should be the Chief accounting officer of the board.
(5) The members appointed to board can resign by their own at any time by sending a letter to the
Chairman.
(6) The following persons are not suitable to be appointed as a member of the board or continue
as a member of the board.
(a) If a person in a situation can't be released from liquidation and bankruptcy after announced
bankrupt by the laws existing in Sri Lanka or other countries.
(b) If a person committed crimes related to abuse against morality , which can be subjected to
imprisonment not less than six months.
(c) If a person is mentally upset or with mental disorders under the laws existing inSri Lanka.
(7) Under the provisions in paragraph (5) and (6) the tenure of the members appointed to the
board is three years.
(8) The Chairman has the total powers to remove the members appointed to the board from the
posts at any time with giving the reason.  A new member can be appointed to that vacancy by
the Chief Minister.
(9) In case of the appointed member passed away, resigned or vacate the post before the maturity
of the tenture due other reasons the replacement member appointed can stay in the post for
the period not matured during the tenure of the predecessor
Short title and
date of
Implementation
Establishing Uva
Navodaya Fund
Administrative
board of the fund

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 17'12'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  29.12.2017
(10)In case of conflicts in ideas among members the decision of the majority should bind with
power.
(11)Should not consider any act or activity powerless only for the reason there is a vacancy
among members of the board.
(12)The quorum for any meetings of the board should be three members.
(13)Under the provisions of the (9) paragraph there should be a proper procedure relate to the
meetings of the board and conducting meetings.
(14)The meetings of the board should be conducted as per the orders of the Chairman or once
in two months.
4. The purposes of the fund should be as follows
(a) To provide financial assistance and materials for the students in Uva Province those who
got university entrance, talented sudents with the qualifications to sit for advance level.
(b) Reward to appreciate the students of Uva Province, shows special talents in Education.
(c) To provide pure drinking water to confirm the good health of the students of Uva Province
and to provide infrastructure facilities prevent these children from specific disease.
(d) To provide financial assistance and scholarship to improve the sports techniques of the
students of Uva Province, they show sporting talents accepted at District/Provincial and
national level
(e) To improve and develop the infrastructure facilities and physical situation of the existing
sports grounds in support to improve the sports skill of the students and members of the
sports societies in general and to establish new grounds and facilities in places without
such facilities.
5. Stamp of the fund
(a) It should be in the custody of the person defined earlier by the board;
(b) Can be changed by some way according to the decision of the board;
(c) No register should be signed except in front of two members with the powers of the board,
these two should sign the register to witness their presence.
6. (1) The board has the powers to perform everything needed or the initial things in the name of
the board to activate the purposes of the
(2) Following should be the powers and duties of the board damaging the powers assigned
according to the sub paragraph (1)
(a) Collection of funds and obtaining grants, gifts and donations from local and international
financial sources.
(b) The fund has the powers to acquisition and possession of movable or fixed assets assigned
to the board under this Statute or by purchase, by grant, by gift, by legacy or by other
The purpose of the
fund
Stamp of the fund
Power and duties of
the fund

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 17'12'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  29.12.2017
4 A
means and has the powers to sell, mortgage, to rent, to donate, to assign, to release, to
exchange or to dispose by other means.
(c) To maintain a lottery system and collect funds under some existing law to improve the
purposes of the fund.
(d) To function by involving as a sub agent if there is no officer or employee given straight or it
hoc in writing powers by the board through agreemets or understanding to implement the
powers, functions and duties to perform the purposes of the fund.
(e) To construct a building or to make a sketch or to plan such things in the land owned by
enjoyed by the fund.
(f) With the approval of the board to invest the money owned by the fund including the money
of the Uva Navodaya Fund No. 01 of 1992 in legal investmets, to reinvestment, to change that
investment, to cancel as per the wish of the board, to collect the income generated by these
investments.
(g) Opening bank accounts in banks as per the notice of the board and closing down the bank
accounts.
7. The money received from the following financial sources shouls be credited to the fund.
(a) Assistance given by the Uva Provincial Council to the fund;
(b) Grants or donations in the form of money or others given by individuals or organizations;
(c) Income received by the board through lottery organized by the board and carnival;
(d) Income or interest received by investments;
(e) Grants, Gifts or donations from international donors;
(f) All other incomes received by the board through other means;
(g) By integrating the money of Uva Navodaya fund No. 1/1992.
8. Following expenditure should be done by the fund:
a. All the expenditures approved by the fund for the functions needed to fulfill purposes of the
fund.
b. Expenses needed to establish, conduct and to implement the fund.
9. (a) According to the necessity of the fund, all the officials and employees coming under provincial
public service commission can be used for the functions of the board for a time period decided
by the board based on the wish of the respective officials or employees and the Chief Secretary.
(b) The service done by the officials and employees for the fund during this period should be
considered as a service done for the provincial council.
10. (1) The board should update and maintain their income, expenditure , assets and liabilities and all
other transactions in accordance with the accounting standard.
(2) In each year on the Thirty first of December the board should take measures to calculate the
balance in the account books and should make arrangements to prepare the income and
expenditure accounts for the  respective year before the Thirty First of March of the next year
and to prepare the final accounts including the balance sheet, including the over view of the
assets and liabilities to be prepared on the date mentioned first.
Composition of
the fund
Payments made by
the fund
Accounts and
Auditing

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 17'12'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  29.12.2017
(3) To implement the provisions mentioned in the paragraph (3), (2) can get the assistance of an
accountant of Uva Provincial Councils as per the paragraph 9(a).
(4) The income and expenditure accounts and the balance sheet of the board should be certified
by two members of the board authorized for ad hoc through the approval of a proposal.
(5) According to the 154th constitution the accounts of the fund should be audited by the Auditor
General every year.
11. The calendar year should be the financial year of the fund.
12. (1) The amount incurred related to legal situations because of the case filed by the fund or case
filed against the fund in a courts, should be reimburse by the fund.
13. (1) The minister may make rules or regulations in respect to all matters which have been authorized
or required by this statute or by order by this statute.
(2) Any rule or regulation made by the Minister shall be effective from the date of publication in the
gazette or from any day from which the rule may be specified.
(3) Any rule or regulation made by the Minister shall be submitted to the Provincial Council as soon
as possible after being published in the gazette.  Any rule not deferred by the council shall be
without prejudice to any earlier action under the said rule or regulation it should be considered
as offended.
(4) The date considered when any rule or regulation should be repealed published in the Gazette.
(5) The rules or regulations made by the Minister made under the subsection (1) of  the sub clause
should come in to force as per the provisions of this statute.
14. All the officials and employees of the fund should considered as government servants as per the
interpretations and functions of panel code.
15.  Fund should be considered as an organization listed under the interpretations of the bribery act.
16. The Statute of Uva Navodaya fund No. 1/1992 will be repeal from the date of implementation of this
Statute, no prejudice will done to all the activities carried out up to now by the Statute  of Uva
Navodaya fund No. 1/1992 and should considered as done by this.
17.  If there is any inconsistency, between Sinhala, Tamil and English the Sinhala text may be impose.
18.  If  there is any need for definitions in this statute,
Chief Minister as Uva Province Chief Minister,
Financial year
Reimbursement
of expenditure
The rules shall be
made by the
Minister
The officials and
employees of the
fund should
considered as
government
servants under
panel code
Fund should be
considered as an
organization listed
under the
interpretation
Impose of Sinhala
when there is an
inconsistency
Definitions

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 17'12'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  29.12.2017
6 A
Cabinet Minister of Education as Uva Provincial Cabinet Minister of Education
Chief Secretary as Uva Province Chief Secretary;
Secretary of Ministry of education as Secretary of Uva Provincial Ministry of Education;
Secretary of the organization in charge of this Statute as Secretary
of the organization implementing the activities of the fund according to the decision of the
administrative board;
01 - 390
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.