

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1294
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1294 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"385 – 2024 uehs ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'05'17
No. 2,385  –  FRiday, May 17, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 7th  June, 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd May, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1291 - B 082570 - 5,403 (05/2024)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'05'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2024
1292
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'05'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2024
1293
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'05'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2024
1294
Posts - v acant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL ' S DEPARTmENT
Amendment of closing date of Applications for 
Recruitment of Registrars of birth, Death and 
marriages
it  is kindly notified that the closing date of applications for 
the recruitment of Birth, death and Marriages Registrars in 
Kandy district, appearing in the No. 2376 Gazette of the 
socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 15.03.2024 which was 
published by me is extended to 15.06.2024.
02. Please note that the closing date of applications only 
changed, all other details in the said Gazette notification 
remain unchanged.
 W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
 Registrar General.
05-208
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
mINISTR y Of AGRICuLTuRE  AND PLANTATIONS  INDuSTRIES
Department of Animal Production and health
coMPEtitiVE   ExaMiNatioN   FoR   adMiSSioN   to  tHE   ScHooLS   oF   SRi  LaNKa  aNiMaL  
HUSBaNdR y - 2024
Higher National Diploma Course in Livestock Production Technology for the Academic Year 
2024/2026
THE notification published in the Gazette dated 26.01.2024 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka calling 
applications for the competitive examination conducted for the enrolment of students to the Higher National diploma 
Course on Livestock Production Technology for the academic year 2024/2026 in which the qualifications mentioned as 
"Should have passed G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) in one sitting with six (06) subjects including credit passes for Sinhala 
Language and Literature/Tamil Language and Literature, Mathematics, Science and in any other subject with an ordinary 
pass for English Subject" in Para 3.1 (a)/(b)/(c) and the closing date for calling applications "26
th  February 2024" in Para 
4.3 are hereby amended as "should have passed G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) not more than in two sittings with six (06) subjects 
including credit passes for Sinhala Language and Literature/ t amil Language and Literature, Mathematics, Science and any 
other subject with an ordinary pass for English Subject" and the closing date for calling for applications as "10
th  June 2024" 
respectively.
02. there will be no changes in the other instructions given in the said Gazette Notification.
 Dr. K. A. C. H. A. Kothalawala,
 director General of animal Production and Health.
08 th  of May 2024, 
department of animal Production and Health,
Gatambe, Peradeniya.
05-199

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'05'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2024
1295
mINISTR y Of EDuCATION
Sri Lanka Institute of the Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE)
adMiSSioN  oF  StUdENtS  to tHE  adV aNcEd tEcHNoLoGicaL  iNStitUtES  FoR  tHE  
acadEMic yEaR  2023/2024
tHiS  is in addition to the Gazette notice published in 26.04.2024.
applications are now called for Higher National diploma in information t echnology (HNdit) (Full t ime) programme of 
advanced t echnological institute (ati) t rincomalee. the application process should be done only  via apply.sliate.ac.lk  
and any other means of applying will not be accepted. all other instructions are same as in the published Gazette notice on 
26.04.2024.
advanced t echnological 
institute - t rincomalee
Kanniya Rd, 
Varothayanagar, 
t rincomalee
026-2223232 HNda  (Ft), HNd in English (Ft), HNda  (Pt), 
HNdit  (Ft), HNdit  (Pt), HNd in English (Pt)
 director General,
 SLiatE
05-247
_______________
ministry of health
REcRUitMENt oF  GRadUatES  to tHE  PoSt oF  SPEEcH  tHERaPiSt  BELoNGiNG  to tHE  
SERVicE  oF  PRoFESSioNS  SUPPLEMENtaR y to MEdiciNE  - 2024
APPLICATIONS are called from eligible Sri Lankan citizens who have satisfied following qualifications for recruitment 
to fill the vacancies in the post of Speech Therapist in Grade III which exist in hospitals under the Ministry of Health and 
institutions under the Provincial councils.
01. method of Recruitment
 Recruitments will be made from the graduates who have completed the degree in the relevant field, on the results 
of a written competitive examination to fill 29 vacancies in the post of Speech Therapist belonging to the Service of 
Professions Supplementary to Medicine of the Ministry of Health.
02. Academic and other special qualifications relevant to the post
 Should have a degree in Speech and Language therapy obtained from a university recognized by the University 
Grants commission.
 Should be registered with the Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) 
03.  Other General Qualifications
(a) Every candidate should be fit mentally and physically to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties 
of the post. 
(b) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka. 
(c) Should be excellent in character.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'05'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2024
1296
(d)  Both male and female candidates may apply.
(e) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age as at 07.06.2024.
(f) Candidates should have satisfied all the qualifications in all respects as at the date mentioned in the notification 
of calling applications (The effective date of the degree should be the closing date of applications or a date prior 
to the closing date of applications.)
04. Written Examination for Recruitment
 From the candidates who have satisfied the qualifications mentioned in the notification, the number of candidates 
approved by the letter No. dMS/0016/2024 VoL.i dated 29.02.2024 of the Secretary to treasury, will only be recruited 
after an interview conducted to check the physical fitness and the eligibility in the order of the merit of marks obtained 
at the written examination General Knowledge Paper and the intelligence test held in the medium of English by the 
Secretary, Ministry of Health or an institute authorized by him.  
Question Paper Syllabus duration Maximum 
Marks
Pass Mark
intelligence test this paper will be designed to 
assess the candidate’s capacity for 
comprehension, quantification and 
perception of time space relations by 
measuring candidates inference, and 
responses to problems presented in 
verbal, numerical and spatial contexts
01 hour 100 40
General Knowledge this paper will be designed to check 
logical reasoning in application of 
subject knowledge related to the 
post of Speech therapist and general 
knowledge
01 hour 100 40
05. Interview 
 From the candidates who sit the relevant question papers of the competitive examination for recruitment, only those 
who secure 40% marks or above for each question paper will only be called for the interview in the order of merit of 
marks obtained. The date for the interview will be determined by the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject 
of Health. No section herein contained shall be deemed to imply or be construed to mean that all those who appear for 
this interview will be recruited to the post of Speech therapist. 
 Note: - a general interview will be held by a board of interview appointed by the Secretary to the Ministry in charge 
of the subject of Health. The board of interview will check the qualifications prescribed in the Scheme of Recruitment 
for the post of Speech Therapist and the physical fitness. Priority will be given to the candidates who have graduated 
after 07.01.2019, the closing date of applications prescribed in last the Gazette notification No. 2,101 dated 07.12.2018 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka issued for recruitment of graduates.
06. method of application
(a)  the application should be prepared using papers in the size a4 in accordance with the specimen form of 
application appended to this notification. 
(b)  Copies of the degree certificate and the certificate indicating the GPA certified by the candidate himself/herself 
should be submitted.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'05'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2024
1297
(c) the receipt obtained by paying Rs.1000.00 to the credit of the account of “Health Secretary  - collection of 
Exam Fees” Number 7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon, Thaprobane Branch, should be affixed so as not be 
detached, on the place where it is mentioned “Receipt” in the application. (Please keep a copy of the receipt with 
you)
(d)  candidate’s signature should be attested by a Principal of a Government School or Justice of the Peace or 
Commissioner for Oaths or Attorney at Law or Notary Public or authorized Officer in Tri-forces or an Officer 
who holds a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer in staff grade holding a permanent post in the Public 
Service or Provincial Public Service and obtains a consolidated salary more than Rs.393,684.00 per annum.
(e) the words “Recruitment of Graduates to the post of Speech therapist of the Service of Professions Supplementary 
to Medicine - 2024” and the relevant degree and academic year should be mentioned in the top left hand corner 
of the envelop of size 9”x4” in which the duly completed application is enclosed and it should be sent to reach 
the director (administration) 02, Ministry of Health, “Suwasiripaya”, No.385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa 
thero Mawatha, colombo 10 under registered cover on or before 07.06.2024.
Note: - The qualifications mentioned under above 2 and 3 and all other qualifications should have been satisfied in all 
respects as at 07.06.2024 the closing date of applications.  
07.  Employees in Public or Semi - Government institutions should submit their applications through the respective Head 
of department.
08.  applications not complying with the terms in this Gazette notification, incomplete, not in compliance with the 
specimen form of application and applications on which the receipt of the bank has not been affixed and not registered 
on or before 07.06.2024 will be rejected without any notice.  Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
09.  Identity of Candidates 
(a)  candidates who have completed applications accurately will only be called for the written examination
(b) candidates are required to prove their identity at the written examination. For this purpose, the National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of Persons, or valid passport or driving license will be accepted.
10.  Calling for the interview
 Candidates who sit and pass the written examination for recruitment to the post of Speech Therapist and have satisfied 
the required qualifications, will only be called for the interview. At the interview, candidates should produce the 
originals and certified copies of the following documents.
.
1. Certificate of birth 
2. Original of the degree certificate (A certified copy thereof should be sent along with the application)
3. National identity card or valid Passport or valid driving License
4. Certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari to confirm the residence (Certificate of the Grama Niladhari)
11.  Terms of Engagement
 if the Ministry of Health decides to grant permanent appointments in the post of Speech therapist, action will be 
taken to appoint the candidates to the Grade iii of the relevant post in terms of the conditions of the Scheme of 
Recruitment and the place of appointment will be decided based on the merit obtained at the written examination. 
in terms of Public administration circular 03/2016, the salary scale Rs. 32,080-445x10-660x11-730x10-58,590 of 
Mt-06-2016 is applicable to the post of Speech therapist and payments are made in terms of the provisions of Public 
administration circular 03/2016.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'05'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2024
1298
12.  The particulars of education and other qualifications in the application should be filled carefully and accurately. If the 
above mentioned certificates are found to be counterfeit after appointment, legal action will taken and action will also 
be taken to cancel the appointment and to dismiss from post, and to enter his/ her name in the black list of those who 
are not permitted to be re-employed in the public service after taking disciplinary action against him/ her. 
13.  Selected applicants should submit themselves for a medical examination during the first month after appointment to 
obtain a certification that he/ she is physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island, and if the applicant is 
found to be unfit at the medical examination he/ she will be disqualified to remain in the post.
14.  All persons selected as above shall be subject to all laws and regulations applicable to the Public Officers, the provisions 
of the Establishments code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies imposed by the Ministry of 
Health, Financial Regulations and other regulations and rules and orders that may be imposed by the Government from 
time to time.
15.  if any problem arises on any matter covered or not covered by this Gazette notification, the decision of Secretary of 
Ministry of Health will be final. In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts, the text in 
Sinhala will prevail.
 dr. P.G. Mahipala,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,       
“Suwasiripaya”,      
No.385, Rev Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo10.
15.05.2024
Specimen form of Application
Recruitment of Graduates to the Post of Speech Therapist belonging to the Service of Professions Supplementary to 
medicine - 2024
(Read the Gazette notification carefully before filling the application)
1. (a)  Name with initials:-………………………..……………………………………....………..
(in English Block capitals) E.g. a.B.c.SiLV a 
(b)  Name in Full (in English Block capitals):-……………………………………..………….
(c)  Name in Full (in Sinhala/t amil):-……………………………….…....…………………….
2.  National identity card No.: -…………………………………………….…… (attach a copy)
3.  Postal address: -   in Sinhala/t amil     in English
………………………...   ………………………...
………………………...   ………………………...
………………………...   ………………………...
………………………...   ………………………...
4.  (a) Permanent address: -in Sinhala/t amil    in English
………………………...   ………………………...
………………………...   ………………………...
………………………...   ………………………...
………………………...   ………………………...

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'05'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2024
1299
(b)  t elephone No.:-     Mobile
       Fixed    
(c) district of Residence :- in Sinhala/t amil………………..in English……………..…...
(d)  are you a permanent resident in this district ? y es/No:-………………………….……
(e)  if “y es”? How long: -.………………….……………………………………….……...
5.   date of Birth: -y ear……………….Month………………….date……………..… …...….
  age as at 07.06.2024 y ears……………….Months……………..days……………...……
6.   Gender: -Female              Male                  (Mark“√” in the relevant cage)
7.   Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka: -Yes              No             (Mark “√” in the relevant cage)
8.   Civil Status : -Married           Single           (Mark “√” in the relevant cage)
9.   Educational Qualifications:-
Serial 
No.
Degree Class Grade Point Average (GP A) and 
Effective Date of the Degree
University Academic Year
10.  Have you ever been convicted for any offense in a court of law? Yes         No   
 (Mark “√” in the relevant cage)
 if so, give particulars: -……………………………………………………………………………..
11. Certification of the applicant:-
(a)  i declare that i have carefully read and understood the Gazette notification and filled the application subject to 
all the conditions mentioned therein, and the particulars furnished by me in the application are true and correct 
to the best of my knowledge.
(b) i am aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained in the application are found to be false, i am liable 
to be dismissed.
….……………………………
Signature of the applicant
date: -……………………………
Affix the receipt obtained by paying the relevant amount to the credit of the Account of “Health  
Secretary - Collection of Exam Fees” Number 7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon, Thaprobane Branch.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'05'17
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2024
1300
12.  Attestation of the Applicant’s Signature:-
 i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………………who is submitting this application is personally known to 
me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ……………………………………………………..………
……………………………………
 …………………………….  …………………………….
  Date Signature and official frank of the Attester 
     
  
 Full Name of the attester: -………………………………………………………………………..
 designation: -………………………………………………………………………………………
 address: -……………………………………………………….…………………………………..
13. Certification of the Head of Department, if the applicant is in Public Service/Provincial Public Service (Delete 
irrelevant words)
 i. i hereby certify that the above applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………….holds the post of……………………………
in this department.
 ii. i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in the above application are true and he/she can/cannot be released if he/
she is selected to the post. 
 iii. i explained him/her that this is an external recruitment and he/she cannot be reverted in any manner to the post holding 
at present on completion or without completing the training successfully. 
 …………………………….…. …………………………….
  date Signature of the Head of department 
Name of the Head of department: -…………………………………….…………………………
designation: -………………………………………………………………………………………
address: -……………………………………’……………………………………..……………..
Official frank of the Head of Department
05-254
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  oF   GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.