

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 98]
————————
Presented by the Prime Minister and Minister of Buddha Sasana and
Religious Affairs on 08th April, 2011
(Published in the Gazette on March 28, 2011)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
2-2d
2-
 EMPLOYEES’ PENSION BENEFITS FUND
Price : Rs. 23.00 Postage : Rs. 7.50
to establish an Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund to provide pension benefits
to certain employees who become eligible to such pension in terms of this
Act: and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.

<!-- page 2 -->

1Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
5
10
15
20
L.D.—O. 24/2011.
A
N  ACT  TO  ESTABLISH  AN  EMPLOYEES ’ PENSION  BENEFITS  FUND  TO
PROVIDE  PENSION  BENEFITS  TO  CERTAIN  EMPLOYEES  WHO  BECOME
ELIGIBLE  TO  SUCH  PENSION  IN TERMS  OF  THIS  ACT : AND  TO  PROVIDE
FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Employees’ Pension
Benefits Fund Act, No.    of 2011.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT  AND  ADMINSTERATION  OF  THE  ACT
2. (1)  For the purpose of this Act there shall be
established a fund called the Employees’ Pension Benefits
Fund (hereinafter in this Act referred to as “the Fund”).
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund—
(a) ten percentum of the annual profit of the
Employees’ Trust Fund;
(b) the moneys lying in inactive accounts of members
of the Employees’ Provident Fund, where such
members have passed the age of seventy years; and
(c) a Government Bond for rupees one thousand million
having   long term maturity period.
3.    (1)  An employee shall become a member of the Fund
at the time such employee first becomes liable under section
12 and section 13 to pay contributions to the Fund, and
shall continue to be a member of the Fund for so long as
there remains to his credit, any sum of money in his
individual account in the Fund.
Short title
and date of
operation.
Establishment
of
Employees’
Pension
Benefits
Fund.
Membership
of the Fund.
2-PL 005694 —1,100 (04/2011)

<!-- page 3 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund2
(2) Neither a member of the Fund nor any person claiming
under him shall have any interest in, or claim to, the moneys
of the Fund otherwise than by virtue of any provision of this
Act or of any regulation.
4. (1) Except as otherwise provided for in this Act, the
Commissioner- General, shall be in charge of the general
administration of this Act.
(2) Subject to any general or special directions of the
Commissioner, any Deputy Commissioner of Labour or any
Assistant Commissioner of Labour may exercise, perform or
discharge any power, duty or function of the Commissioner,
under this Act or any regulation framed under this Act.
(3) There may be appointed such number of officers,
including District Secretaries, Divisional Secretaries and
Grama Niladharies as may be required for the purpose of
carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
(4) The Commissioner may either generally or specifically
authorize any officer under subsection (3) of this section  to
exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or function
of the Commissioner  under this Act or under any regulation.
5. (1) The Monetary Board—
(a) may appoint such officers and servants as may be
required by the Board for exercising its powers,
performing its duties and discharging its functions
under this Act, fix the salaries and wages of such
officers and servants and determine their conditions
of service;
(b) shall receive all sums paid under this Act as
contributions,  surcharges and fees, and the income
from the investment of moneys of the Fund and
shall credit such sums and income to  the Fund;
Powers and
duties of the
Monetary
Board in
relation to
the Fund.
Administration
of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
(c) The Board shall determine with the concurrence of
the Minister, the amount of surcharge to be
distributed, among the members affected by the
failure of their employers to pay the contributions
due from him to the Fund, on the day such
contribution is due, out of the money received by
way of surcharge under the provisions of section 18;
(d) shall have custody of the moneys of the Fund;
(e) shall pay to the persons certified by the
Commissioner the benefits to which those persons
are entitled under this Act;
(f) may invest such of the moneys of the Fund as are
not immediately required for the purposes of this
Act, in  such  securities as the Board may consider
fit, while ensuring that not less than two thirds of
such monies are invested in Government Securities;
(g) shall maintain a general account in respect of the
Fund, and a separate account (in this Act referred to
as an individual account) in respect of each member
of the Fund;
(h) shall maintain a operate a Suspense Account, for
the matters specified in section 6;
(i) shall cause the books of accounts relating to the
Fund to be balanced as on the thirty-first day of
December in each year;
(j) shall cause to be prepared in respect of the Fund for
each year a statement of receipts and payments, a
statement of assets and liabilities, a statement of
income and expenditure, a statement of investment
showing the face value, purchase price, and market
value of each of the investments;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 5 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund4
(k) shall transmit to the Minister a copy of each of the
statements prepared under the preceding paragraph
(j) for each year within three months after the thirty-
first day of  December of that year;
(l) shall notify each member of the Fund within six
months after the thirty-first day of December in each
year, of the amount lying as a positive or negative
balance of the individual account of such member
on that day;
(m ) shall, deduct from the income from the investment
of moneys of the fund, the expense incurred by the
Board and the Commissioner in carrying out their
respect functions under this Act;
(n) may establish such reserves out of the income of
the Fund as the Monetary Board may determine, to
meet any contingencies or any depreciation in the
market value of the assets of the Fund;
(o) shall have such other powers and duties in
connection with the Fund as may be conferred or
imposed on such Board, by Order published in the
Gazette, by the Minister with the concurrence of
the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
(2) Every officer or servant appointed under paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) shall be deemed to be employed for the
performance of duties under the Monetary Law Act, for the
purpose of application of the provisions of the said Act
relating to officers and servants.
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (m ) of subsection (1)
“expenses” shall include –
(i) any loss of moneys on account of theft,
misappropriation or overpayment;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
(ii)any loss of articles, being  furniture, office
equipment or stationary used in or purchased for
the administration of the Fund, the cost of which
cannot be recovered from the persons responsible
for such loss; and
(iii)the value of any articles being  stationery, furniture,
or office equipment which are not usable or which
are not functioning and    are incapable of being
repaired.
 6. (1)  There shall be credited to the Suspense Account
maintained and operated by the Monetary Board all
contributions received under this Act in respect of which-
(a) employers have failed to furnish relevant returns in
terms of this Act or any regulations made thereunder;
or
(b) the returns furnished are deficient or incorrect and
the moneys cannot be credited to in individual
accounts.  
(2) Any moneys as are specified above which are held in
an Account maintained by the Fund shall be transferred by
the Monetary Board to the Suspense Account.
(3) At the point at which an employer, who has failed to
furnish relevant returns as referred to above, furnishes a
correct return in respect of his employee, the Monetary Board
shall transfer the moneys lying in the Suspense Account to
the individual account of the member as indicated by the
employer.
(4)  Where any moneys are transferred from the Suspense
Account to an individual account as provided for in this
paragraph, interest shall be paid on the sum, for the period
from the date of receipt of such moneys to the date of transfer
of such moneys to the individual account, for a period not
Suspense
Account of
Monetary
Board.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund6
exceeding six years prior to the date of such transfer, and the
rate of interest shall be the rate determined in terms of
subsection (1) of section 16 of the Act, and applicable for
the year in respect of which the interest is paid.
7. (1) The accounts of the Fund in respect of each year
shall be audited by the Auditor General and the cost of the
audit shall be paid to be him out of the Fund.  All payments
made to the Auditor- General  under this subsection shall be
credited to the Consolidated Fund.
(2) The Auditor-General or any officer of his department
authorized by him to audit the accounts of the Fund, shall
have access to all such books and documents as the Auditor-
General or such officer may consider necessary for the
purposes of the audit of such accounts, and shall be furnished
by the Monetary Board and the Commissioner with such
information within their knowledge or ascertainable by them,
as may be required for such purposes.
(3) The Auditor-General shall examine the accounts of
the Fund and submit to the Minister annually a report -
(a) stating whether he has or has not obtained all the
information   required by him;
(b) stating whether the accounts referred to in the report
are properly   drawn up so as to exhibit an accurate
and justifiable analysis of   the affairs of the  moneys
lying to the credit of the Pension Fund; and
(c) drawing attention to any item in such accounts
which in his opinion may be of interest to Parliament
in any examination of such accounts.
(4) Such report shall not disclose the name of any member
of the Fund.
(5) The Minister shall lay before Parliament a copy of the
Auditor-General’s report submitted to the Minister under
Auditor
General to
audit the
accounts of
the Fund,
& c,.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
subsection (3) of this section and copies of the statements
transmitted to the Minister by the Monetary Board under
paragraph (k) of sub-section (1) of Section 5.
8. Every sum paid out of the Consolidated Fund -
(1) to the Commissioner prior to the date of enactment
of this Act, for defraying the expenditure incurred
in making preliminary arrangements for the
establishment of the Fund;
(2) to the Monetary Board, for defraying all
expenditure, including capital  expenditure
incurred by such Board and the Commissioner
in   implementing the provisions of this Act during
the period commencing on   the date of enactment
of this Act and ending on the date of the coming
into operation of this Act,
shall constitute a loan from the Government to the Monetary
Board and shall be repaid in accordance with such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the Minister with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.
9. The expenses incurred by the Commissioner and the
Monetary Board in carrying out the provisions of this Act
shall be charged on the income from the investment of the
moneys of the Fund. Provided, however that the expenses
out of the provisions of Part IV of this Act shall be paid out
of the income from the investment of moneys of the Fund.
PART II
E
MPLOYEES  TO  WHOM  THIS ACT  APPLIES  AND  CONTRIBUTIONS
10. (1) For the purposes of this Act, all persons other
than persons-
(a) holding any post which is a pensionable post for
the purposes of  the Minutes on Pension as declared
by the Director – General of  Pensions; or
Repayments
to
Government.
Expenses
incurred in
the
administration
of the Act.
Persons to
whom this
Act applies.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund8
(b) who are members of any “approved scheme or fund”
approved ne by the Commissioner of Labour in
terms of the provisions of the  Employees’ Provident
Act, No. 15 of 1958, including persons employed
under a contract of employment,
shall be deemed to be persons to whom this Act applies.
(2) All employees who are not covered by (a) and (b)
above, -
(i) if such person is of an age where such person has
more than ten years in which to become entitled to
receive a pension in terms of this Act, be deemed to
be members of the Fund; and
(ii)if such person is of an age where such person has
less than ten years in which to become entitled to
receive a pension in terms of this Act, be entitled to
apply to the Commissioner-General to become a
member of the Fund.
11. Where the immediate employer of any person is
himself in employment of some other person and the first
mentioned person is employed to do any work in the course
of, or for the purposes of, the business of that other person,
such other person shall for the purposes of this Act, be deemed
to be the employer of the first-mentioned person jointly
with the immediate employer.
12. Subject to the provisions of section 14, all persons
who are members of the Fund, shall contribute to the Fund.
The contributions relating to such employee shall be paid
in the following manner;-
(a) an amount equivalent to not less than two
percentum of the monthly Gross Salary of the
employee, being the employer’s contribution;
Immediate
employer
being himself
in the
employment
of another
person.
Contributions
in relation to
employees.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
(b) an amount not less than two percentum of the
employee’s monthly gross salary, being the
employee’s contribution;
(c) an amount not less than ten percentum of the
Gratuity, payable to   an employee in terms of the
Payment of  Gratuity Act,  No. 12 of 1983, to be
transferred by the employer, at the time such
Gratuity  becomes payable; and
(d) an amount  not less than two percentum of the
earnings lying to the credit of an employee in an
individual account of a provident fund to be
transferred by the Commissioner of Labour or such
other person in authority, upon the money in such
fund becoming  payable to the employee;  
(e) an amount of ten percentum of the earnings lying
to the credit of an employee in a co-operative
society registered under the Co- operative Societies
Law, No. 5 of 1972.
13. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 14, an
employee who is employed in an  institution which, -
(a) prior to January 1, 1996, provided for the payment
of pension benefits to its employees;
(b) after January 1, 1996, has withdrawn the payment
of pension  benefits to its employee,
shall, provided that such employee joined such institution
after the date of withdrawal of such pension benefit but prior
to the date of the coming into operation of this Act, be
entitled to contribute to the Fund.
(2) The contributions relating to such employee shall be
paid taking into consideration the period of service of each
such member, in the following manner:-
(a) an amount equivalent to five percentum of the
monthly gross salary of the employee, as the
Contributions
in relation to
employees in
institutions
that does not
extend
pension
benefits to its
employees
after January
1, 1996.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 11 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund10
employer’s contribution, for the period commencing
from the date that such institution had withdrawn
the pension rights benefit to the date on which
such member becomes a member of the Fund. Such
amount shall be paid in one installment.
(b) an amount equivalent to five percentum of the
monthly gross salary of the employee, as the
employer’s contribution payable monthly;
(c) the total amount due as Gratuity and payable to an
employee in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act,
No. 12 of 1983 on the date on which such employee
becomes a member of the Fund, shall be paid to the
Fund by the employer in one installment: the
employee who being entitled to a Gratuity in terms
of the  Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983
subsequently becomes a   member of the Fund, shall
be required to renounce his entitlement to such
Gratuity under the aforesaid Act;
(d) the amount due and payable as gratuity to the
employee after the   date of the coming into
operation of this Act, shall be paid annually,
ensuring that an amount equivalent to half a months
salary of the last drawn salary of such employee for
every year of   service is paid;
(e) an amount not less than five percentum of the
earnings lying to the credit of an employee in an
individual account of a provident fund to be
transferred by the Commissioner of Labour or such
other person in authority, upon the money in such
fund becoming payable to the employee;
(f) an amount of ten percentum of the earnings lying
to the credit of an employee in a co-operative
society registered under the Co-  operative Societies
Law, No. 5 of 1972.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 12 -->

11Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
(3) The provisions of the section shall apply in relation
to an employee who is employed on or before May 1, 2011,
in any institution as is specified in this section,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained therein.
14. The liability of an employee in a covered
employment, his employer and the Commissioner of Labour
or such other authority, to pay contributions under section
12 and section 13 shall  commence on the day immediately
after the date fixed in relation to such employment by the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette.
15. (1) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the
employer of any employee has, during the period of one
year immediately before the appointed date or at any time
on or after that date, reduced the earnings of such employee
for the purpose of reducing the amount of, such
contributions, the Commissioner shall, by written notice,
direct such employer to pay to the Fund in such installments
and before such dates as may be specified in that notice, in
respect of the entire period during which such employee
receives such reduced earnings, the difference between the
sum he should have paid during that period as contributions
had such contributions been calculated on the basis of the
earnings of such employee before the reduction and the sum
actually paid by him as contributions during that period.
(2) Where the Commissioner gives any employer a
direction under subsection (1) of this section, such employer
shall comply with that direction.
16. (1) An annual interest rate, not less than two point
five percentum, as may be annually fixed by the Monetary
Board with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance, shall be credited to the individual
accounts on a monthly basis, out of the income from the
investment of the moneys of the Fund, on the amount standing
to the credit of the individual account of each member of the
Fund;
Commencement
of liability to
pay
contributions.
Commissioner’s
directions to
employer
who has
reduced the
earnings of
any
employee for
purpose of
reducing the
amount of
the
employer’s
contributions
under this
Act in respect
of the
employee.
Interest on
contributions
& c,.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 13 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund12
(2) Where the income from the investment of the moneys
of the Fund is inadequate to pay any part of the interest
payable on contributions paid to the Fund under this Act,
the amount of the deficit  shall be met out of the moneys
provided by Parliament for the purpose.
(3) Any sum provided by Parliament under subsection
(2) of this section shall constitute a loan from the
Government to the Monetary Board and shall be repaid in
accordance with such terms and conditions as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
(4) The Fund shall be deemed to be a Pension Fund
approved by the Commissioner-General of Labour  for the
purposes of the Inland Revenue Act, No.10 of 2006.
17. (1) The employer of an employee to whom this Act
applies shall deduct and pay to the Fund the contribution
for each month of such employee under this Act pertaining
to Section 11 (1) before the last day of the succeeding month
from the earnings of such employee; and a contribution paid
under this section to the Fund by such employer on behalf
of such employee under Section 11 (2) shall be deemed to
have been paid to the Fund by such employee.
(2) The employer of an employee who deducts and pays
to the Fund the contribution on behalf of such employee
shall maintain proper records of every such deduction. The
Commissioner – General of Labour may in order to satisfy
himself that such deductions are correctly made, require any
employer to forward such records for his inspection. Any
employer who has failed to so maintain records shall be
required to make a statement to the Commissioner – General
in connection with such omission.
18. Where contributions payable under this act in
respect of any month have not been made to the Fund before
the last day of the succeeding month and the employer is
unable to explain to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
that the failure to pay such contributions was due to
Payment of
contribution
due from
employees.
Imposition of
surcharge on
employers on
failure to pay
contributions
on due date.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 14 -->

13Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
circumstances beyond his control, he shall be liable to pay
the Fund in addition to the amount of the contribution due,
a surcharge on such amount calculated in the following
manner :-
(a) where the contributions are in arrears for a period
not exceeding ten days, a surcharge of five
percentum of the amount of the contributions due ;
(b) where the contributions are in arrears for a period
exceeding ten days but not exceeding one month,
a surcharge of fifteen percentum of the amount of
the contributions due ;
(c) where the contributions are in arrears for a period
exceeding one month but not exceeding three
months, a surcharge of twenty percentum of the
amount of the contributions due ;
(d) where the contributions are in arrears for a period
exceeding three months but not exceeding six
months, a surcharge of thirty percentum of the
amount of the contributions due ;
(e) where the contributions are in arrears for a period
exceeding six months but not exceeding twelve
months, a surcharge of forty percentum of the
amount of the contributions due;
(f) where the contributions are in arrears for a period
exceeding twelve months, a surcharge of fifty
percentum of the amount of the contributions due.
19. (1) Any moneys due to the Fund shall be recoverable,
as a debt due to the State, by an action in which proceedings
may be taken by way of summary procedure.  The provisions
of the Civil Procedure Code relating to actions of which the
procedure is summary shall apply to an action under this
section , and, for the purposes only of the application of
Recovery of
contributions.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 15 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund14
such provisions to such action, section 8 of that Code shall
have effect as if, for the words “by this  Ordinance” occurring
in that section, there were substituted the words “by this
Ordinance or by any other written law”.
(2) Proceedings for the recovery of any moneys due to
the Fund may be instituted by the Commissioner or any
officer authorized in that behalf by him, and the
Commissioner or such officer may, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in any other written law conduct
such proceedings.
(3) The provisions of the Prescription Ordinance shall
not apply to the recovery of any sums payable as
contributions or surcharges under this Act.
20. The contributions of a member of the Fund and of
his employer in respect of him and the interest on such
contribution shall be credited by the Monetary Board to the
individual account of such member.
21. No employer shall, by reason of his liability to pay
in respect of any employee any contribution or surcharge
under this Act, reduce the earnings of that employee or alter
to his detriment any benefits which he is entitled to under
the provisions of any other written law or under his contract
of employment with that employer.
22. The employer of any employee shall not deduct
from the earnings of that employee any sum which that
employer is liable to pay as a contribution or surcharge under
this Act, and any contract entered into by that employer
with that employee whereby any part of the liability of that
employer under this Act is transferred to that employee shall
be null and void.
The sums to
be credited to
the
individual
accounts of
members
Employer
prohibited
from
reducing
earnings of
his
employees
& c.
Employer
prohibited
from
deducting
from
earnings of
employee
payments
due from
employer
under this
Act in respect
of employee.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 16 -->

15Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
23. Any sum due under this Act from an employer on
the day immediately following the end of the period within
which that sum is required by this Act to be paid by him
shall be the first charge on his assets notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in any other written law.
24.   Every assignment of, or charge on, any sum to the
credit of the individual account of a member of the Fund
and every agreement to assign or charge any such sum shall
be void, and, where that member is adjudged insolvent by a
competent court, any such sum shall not part to any assignee
acting on behalf of that members creditors notwithstanding
the provisions of the Insolvency Ordinance.
PART III
P
ENSION
25. (1) Subject to section (3) and (4),  a member of the
Fund covered under section 12 shall be paid a minimum
monthly pension upon such member attaining the age of 60
years computed in the following manner:-
(a) If such member has not less than ten years and not
more than nineteen years of contribution during
his service, a sum calculated on a simple average
equivalent to fifteen percentum of the salary of the
respective employee;
(b) If such member has not less than twenty years and
not more than twenty-nine years of contribution
during his service, a sum calculated on a simple
average equivalent to thirty percentum of the salary
of the respective employee,
(c) If such member has thirty years of contribution
during his service and above, a sum calculated on a
simple average equivalent to sixty percentum of
the salary of the respective employee.
Amount due
under this
Act from an
employee to
be the first
charge on his
assets.
Money to the
credit of
individual
accounts to
be
inalienable.
Time at
which
pension be
paid in
relation to
employees
and the
period within
which
contributions
have to be
made.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 17 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund16
(2) Subject to sub section (4) a member of the funded
covered under section 13 shall be paid a monthly pension
upon such member attaining the age of 60 years, computed
in the following manner.
(i) If such member has not less than 20 years of service,
a sum equivalent to 30 percentum of the last drawn
salary of the respective employee;
(ii)If such member has a grater period of service, he
will be entitled to an extra 2 percent for every 1
year of additional service;
Provided however, for the basis of computation in terms of
this section the maximum salary increase that will be counted
for in any one year shall not be over and above 6.5 percentum
of the salary of the preceding year.
(3) In the event the member does not have the respective
number of years as required in section 12 within which
contributions have to be made by him, prior to his reaching
the age of sixty, the member could opt to make the balance
payments relating to such period, in installments as may be
approved by the Fund.
(4) The Commissioner shall require the respective  District
Secretary, Divisional Secretary or the Grama Niladahri to
confirm at least annually, that a person to who this Act
applies and who is a member of the Fund, is alive. In respect
of those members who are residing outside Sri Lanka, the
verification shall be done through the Sri Lankan  Mission
based  in the respective countries or in the absence through
the available diplomatic channels. Action shall be taken to
strike off the name of any member reported to be dead.
26. (1) Where a member of the fund dies—
(a) before receiving a Pension having contributed as
required in terms of this Act; or
Powers to
whom a
lump sum
shall be paid
in certain
circumstances.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 18 -->

17Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
(b) before receiving a Pension without having
completed making the contribution as required
under this Act;
Leaving a child below eighteen  years of age or a child who
is certified by a registered medical practitioner to be
physically or mentally disabled, and who therefore is unfit
to earn a living on their own, a lump sum equivalent to sixty
percentum of the amount lying to the credit of the member’s
individual account shall be paid to such dependent. If there
is more than one dependent, such amount will be divided
among the dependents in equal shares.
(2) Where a member of the fund ceases to be employed by
reason of a permanent incapacity to work and is certified by
a registered medical practitioner to be unfit for work for that
reason, and such member has not completed making the
contributions as required under this Act , a sum equivalent
to sixty percent of the amount lying to the credit of the
member’s individual account shall be paid to such  member.
27. It shall be a condition of any person’s right to a
pension   under this Act that he or any person on his behalf
in instances so permitted under this Act shall makes a claim
thereto in the prescribed manner.
PART IV
D
ETERMINATION  OF  CLAIMS
28. All claims to pensions shall be determined by the
Commissioner or by any officer authorized in that behalf by
him and the determination of the Commissioner or such
officer shall, subject to any decision on an appeal made
against such determination in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, be final:
Provided that any determination made by any officer
under this section may within the prescribed period be
Claim to
receive a
pension.
Commissioner
or an officer
authorized
by the
commissioner
to determine
claims.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 19 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund18
reviewed by the Commissioner on his own motion; and in
such case the determination of the Commissioner shall be
deemed, for the purposes of section 29 to be the determination
in that case.
29. (1) Any person aggrieved by any determination
made under section 28 may appeal from such determination
to an Appeals Tribunal (hereinafter in this Act referred to as
“the Tribunal”) comprising of not less than three persons
and not more than ten members, from amongst retired Judges
of the Superior Courts, who shall be appointed by the
Minister having related experience, and the decision of the
Tribunal on such appeal shall, subject to any Order which
the Court of Appeal may make in appeal, be final.
(2) Where the Commissioner or any party to an appeal
made to the Tribunal is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Tribunal on such appeal, the Commissioner or that party
may by written petition in which every other party to the
appeal is mentioned as a respondent, appeal to the Court of
Appeal from that decision on a question of law. The petition
of appeal shall state the question of law to be argued, shall
bear a certificate by an attorney-at -law that such question is
fit for adjudication by the Court of Appeal, shall be presented
to the Tribunal by the appellant within twenty- one days
after the date of the Tribunal’s decision from which the
appeal is preferred, and shall be accompanied by a sufficient
number of copies for service on each of the persons
mentioned as respondents. Every such petition of appeal
shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee.
(3) Where a petition of appeal is presented to the Tribunal
in the manner and within the time specified in subsection
(2) of this section, it shall be the duty of the Tribunal-
(a) to cause the petition to be transmitted to the Court
of Appeal together with the record of the
proceedings in which the decisions of the Tribunal
against which the petition is preferred was made,
and
Appeals.5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 20 -->

19Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
(b) to cause notice of the appeal and a copy of the
petition of appeal to be served on each of the
respondents named in the petition of appeal.
(4) Every appeal to the Court of Appeal under this section
may be heard and determined by any two Judges of that
Court.
(5) Upon a decision being given by the Court of Appeal
in any appeal under this section, the Registrar of that Court
shall remit the case to the Tribunal together with the decision
of that Court, and it shall be the duty of the Tribunal, if the
decision of that Court so requires, to rescind or vary in such
manner as is required by the decision of that Court , the
decision of the Tribunal from which the appeal was preferred
and, where necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the
decision of that Court, to make a fresh decision in that regard
within thirty days thereof.
(6) In any appeal made to the Court of Appeal under this
section that Court may make such Order in regard to costs as
to that Court may seem fit.
(7) Any costs ordered by the Court of Appeal under
subsection (6) of this section to be paid by any person may,
notwithstanding anything contained in any other written
law, be recovered, on application made in that behalf to the
Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction in the place where
that person is resident, in like manner as a fine imposed by
that Magistrate’s Court, notwithstanding that such of its
ordinary jurisdiction impose.
(8) Subject to any regulations made under this Act, the
Tribunal may regulate its own procedure.
30. The members of the Tribunal may be paid such
remuneration as the Minister may determine with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.
Remuneration
of  members
of the
Tribunal.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 21 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund20
PART V
G ENERAL
31. There shall be a Consultative Committee
compromising of the Secretary to the Minister in charge of
the subject of Labour, Commissioner General of Labour and
two other members as may be nominated by the Minister in
charge of the subject of Labour, one representing the
employers and one representing the employees.  The
Monetary Board from time to time shall consult such
Consultative Committee on the operations of the Fund.
32. (1) The Commissioner may, for the purposes of this
Act, direct in writing any person to furnish to him before a
date specified in the direction-
(a) a return containing such particulars as he may
require; and
(b) such explanation in writing as he may require in
respect of any particulars specified in any return so
furnished.
and such person shall comply with such direction. A
direction under the preceding provisions of this subsection
may be given by notification  published in the Gazette and
in two or more newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.
(2) Any person furnishing any document under subsection
(1) of this section may transmit with such document a request
in writing that the contracts of where such document should
be treated as confidential and, where such request is made,
the contents of such document shall not be disclosed without
the consent previously obtained of such person.
(3) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this section
shall be deemed to require or permit any person to disclose
any explanation or to produce any document in any case
Consultative
Committee.
Power of
Commissioner
to call for
returns, & c,.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 22 -->

21Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
where such disclosure or production by that person is
prohibited by or under the provisions of any written law
other than this Act.
33. Where any employer, who is required in terms of
this Act or any regulation made there under, to furnish a
return together with any contribution, has failed to furnish
such return, within the specified period or has furnished
incorrect or deficient return and is unable to explain to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner,  the reason for the failure
to furnish such return for that period, he shall be liable to
pay the Fund a surcharge at the rate of one percent of the
amount of such contribution for every completed month or
part thereof from the last date on or before which the return
was due to the date of receipt by the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka of a duly completed return.
34. Subject to such conditions and restrictions as may
be prescribed, the Commissioner or any officer authorized
in that behalf by him in writing, for the purpose of carrying
out the provisions of this Act, may-
(a) enter and inspect at all reasonable hours by day or
night any premises or place for examining any
register or record relating to the earnings of any
employee;
(b) take copies of any such register or record or part
thereof;
(c) examine any person whom he has reasonable cause
to believe is an employer or an employee; and
(d) examine any records or other documents related to
any provident fund or pension scheme.
35. Every employer of employees in a covered
employment shall maintain such records as may be
determined by the Commissioner and notified in the Gazette.
Imposition of
a surcharge
on employers
who fail  to
furnish
returns.
Power of
Commissioner
and other
officers to
inspect
premises &
c,.
Employers to
keep records.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 23 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund22
36. Any person who-
(a) contravenes any provision of this Act or of any
regulation made thereunder;
(b) furnishes, for the purposes of this Act, information
which is, or any document the contents of which
are, or any part of contents of which is, to his
knowledge untrue or incorrect;
(c) willfully delays or obstructs the Commissioner or
any other officer in the exercise of powers under
section 34; or
(d) contravenes any direction made by the
Commissioner in the   exercise of this power under
section 32,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
37. Where an act or omission which constitutes an
offence for which an employer is liable under this Act has in
fact been committed or made by some manager, agent, servant
or other person, the manager, agent, servant or other person
shall be liable to be proceeded against for the offence in the
same manner as if he were the employer, and either together
with the employer, or before of after the conviction of the
employer, and shall be liable to the like punishment as if he
were the employer.
38. (1) Where any employer is charged with an offence
under this Act, he shall, upon compliant duly made by him
in accordance with the provisions of section 136 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, and on giving to
the prosecution not less than three days notice of his
intention, be entitled, subject to the provisions of Chapter
XIV of that Act, to have any other person whom he charges,
as the actual offender brought before the court, and if, after
commission of the offence by such other person has been
5
10
15
20
25
30
Offences.
Liability of
manager,
agent, & c,.
of employer
for offences.
Where the
employer
proves  that
some other
person is
guilty of an
offence.

<!-- page 24 -->

23Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
proved, the employer proves to the satisfaction of the court
that he has used due diligence to enforce the provisions of
this Act and such other person has committed the offence
without his knowledge, consent or connivance, then such
other person shall be convicted of the offence and the
employer shall be exempt from any punishment in respect
of the offence.
(2) Where in any case referred to in subsection (1) of this
section complaint is made by an employer against any other
person, -
(a) the prosecution against such other person shall be
conducted by or on behalf of the employer;
(b) any witness called by the prosecution in the
proceeding against such other person may be cross-
examined by any officer authorized in that behalf
by the Commissioner; and
(c) pending the determination of the proceedings
against such other person, the proceedings in the
prosecution of the employer shall be adjourned.
39. Every person who is guilty of an offence under this
Act shall be liable, on conviction after summary trial before
a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding  fifty  thousand rupees
or to imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both such fine and imprisonment,
and shall in addition be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees
five hundred in respect of each day on which the offence is
continued to be committed after conviction.
40. (1) Where an employer makes default in the payment
of any sum which he is liable to pay under this Act and
Commissioner is of opinion that recovery under section 17
of the Act is impracticable or inexpedient, he may issue a
certificate to the District Court having jurisdiction in any
district in which the member or members of the fund respect
of whom default is made, is or was employed by such
5
10
15
20
25
30
Punishment
for offences.
Recovery of
arrears of
payments
due in certain
cases.

<!-- page 25 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund24
defaulting employer, containing particulars of the sum due
and the name and place of residence of such employer, and
the court shall thereupon direct a writ of execution to issue
to the Fiscal authorizing and requiring to seize and sell all
the property, movable and immovable, of the defaulting
employer, or such part thereof as he may deem necessary for
the recovery of the amount so due, and the provisions of
section 226 to 297 of the Civil procedure Code shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to such seizure and sale.
(2) Where an employer makes default in the payment of
any sum which he is liable to pay under this Act and the
Commissioner is of the opinion that it is impracticable or
inexpedient to recover that sum under section 17 or under
subsection (1) of this section or where the full amount due
has not been recovered by seizure and sale, then, he may
issue a certificate containing particulars of the sum so due
and the name and place  of  residence  of the defaulting
employer,  to the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the
division in which the place of work of the member of members
of the Fund in respect of whom default is made, is situate.
The Magistrate shall, thereupon, summon such employer
before him to show cause within a period of fourteen days,
as to why further proceedings for the recovery of the sum
due under this Act should not be taken against him and in
default of sufficient cause being shown, such sum shall be
deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate
on such employer for an offence punishable with
imprisonment and the provisions of section 291 (except
paragraphs (a),(d), and (i) of subsection (1) thereof of the
Code of Criminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 relating to
the default of payment of affine imposed for such an offence
shall thereupon apply and the Magistrate may make any
direction which, by the provisions of that subsection, he
could have made at the time of imposing such sentence.
(3) The correctness of any statement in a certificate issued
by the Commissioner for the purpose of this section shall
not be called in question or examined by the Court in any
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 26 -->

25Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
proceedings under this section, and accordingly nothing in
this section shall authorize the Court to consider or decide
the correctness of any statements in such certificate and the
Commissioner’s certificate shall be sufficient evidence that
the amount due under this Act from the defaulting employer
has been duly calculated and that such amount is in default.
(4) The provisions of this section shall have effect
notwithstanding anything in section 17 of this Act.
41. In any proceedings against any employer under
section 17 of this Act for failure to pay any sum due from
him under this Act, the burden of proving that the sum was
paid of shall lie on the employer.
42. Where an offence under this Chapter is committed
by a body of person, then –
(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director and officer of that body corporate;
(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm;  and
(c ) if that body of persons is a trade union, every officer
of that trade union,
shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence:
Provided that a director or an officer of such body
corporate or a partner of such firm or an officer of such trade
union, shall not be deemed to be guilty of such offence if he
proves that such offence was committed without his
knowledge or that exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.
43. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall
be instituted except by or with the written sanction of the
Commissioner.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Burden of
proof.
Offences by
bodies of
persons.
No
prosecution
without the
sanction of
the
Commissioner.

<!-- page 27 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund26
44. (1) An extract of the Gazette in which any regulation
or order made under this Act is published, or a copy of such
regulation or order purporting to have been certified by the
Commissioner to be a true copy, may produced in court in
proof of such Regulation or Order.
(2) In any legal proceedings -
(a) a copy of an entry in any book of accounts
maintained by the Monetary Board for the purposes
by an account of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to
be a true copy; or
(b) a copy of an entry in any book or record maintained
by the Commissioner for the purposes of this Act
purporting to have been certified by him to be a
true copy,
shall be prima facie evidence of the fact that such entry has
been made and of the contents thereof.
45. (1) The income from the investment of any
moneys of the Fund shall be exempt from income tax
chargeable under any written law relating to the imposition
of income tax.
(2) The Fund shall be deemed to be a pension fund
approved by the Commissioner, for the purposes of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.
(3) In this subsection “Commissioner” and
“Commissioner-General” shall have the same meaning as in
the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.
46. Stamp duty shall not be chargeable upon such
documents used in connection with the purpose of this Act
as may be prescribed.
47. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall
lie against any person for anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any
regulations made there under.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Proof of
regulations
and orders &
c,.
Exemption
from income
tax.
Exemption
from stamp
duty.
Protection
for action
taken under
this Act.

<!-- page 28 -->

27Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
48. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions of
this Act and in respect of matters required by this Act to be
prescribed or in respect of which regulations are authorized
or required to be made.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations in respect of all or any of the following matters –
(a ) in respect of all matters connected with or incidental
to the collection of contributions and other
payments under this Act;
(b) in respect of the refund of any sums paid in error to
the Fund;
(c) for enabling a person to be appointed to exercise,
on behalf of a claimant to a beneficiary who is a
child or who may be unable for the time being to
act, any right which the claimant may be entitled to
exercise under this Act, and for authorizing a person
so appointed to receive and deal with a benefit to
which a claimant is entitled;
(d) in respect to whom the amount standing to the credit
of that member’s individual account in the Fund
may be paid in the event of that member’s death ;
(e) in respect of the manner in which and the time within
which appeals to the Tribunal constituted under
this Act shall be made;
(f) in respect of the fees to be paid for appeals to such
Tribunal;
(g) in respect of the procedure to be followed and the
powers exercisable by such Tribunal;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Regulations.

<!-- page 29 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund28
(h) in respect of the circumstance in which costs may
be awarded by such Tribunal against any party to
an appeal made to the Tribunal and the manner of
recovery of such costs;
(i) to provide for matters arising-
(i) pending the determination under this Act
(whether in the first instance or on appeal) of
any claim to a benefit or of any question
affecting any person’s right to a benefit or
any person’s liability for contributions to the
Fund; or
(ii)out of the revision on appeal to the Tribunal
of any decision on any such claim or
question;
(j) for the suspension of the grant of a pension pending
the review by the Commissioner of the determination
upon the claim to that pension;
(k) for treating any sum paid to any person under a
determination made under this Act or by virtue of
any provision of any regulation, which it is
subsequently decided was not payable, as properly
paid, or for the repayment by him and for the
recovery from him of that sum;
(l) the payment of allowances to officers and servants
employed in carrying out the provisions of this Act
and the method of computing such allowances;
(m ) for the recovery of fees to be charged from
employers and the writing off of losses which may
be incurred, in connection with the administration
of this Act; and
(n) in respect of all matters necessary for carrying out
the provisions of this Act or giving effect to the
principal thereof.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 30 -->

29Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulations.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.  Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
49. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -
 “Commissioner” means the Commissioner-General of
Labour;
“covered employment” means an employment
declared by regulation to be a covered
employment;
“employee” means any person who has entered into or
works under a contract with an employer in any
capacity, whether the contract is expressed or
implied, or oral or in writing, and whether it is a
contract of service or of apprenticeship or a
contract personally to execute any work labour,
and included any person ordinarily employed
under any such contract, whether such person is
or is not in employment at any particular time;
“Employees’ Trust Fund” means the fund established by
the Employees’ Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980;
“Employees’ Provident Fund” means the fund
established by the Employees Provident Fund
Act, No. 15 of 1958;
Interpretation.

<!-- page 31 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund30
“employer” means any person who employs or on
whose behalf any other person employs any
workman and includes a body of employers
(whether such body is a firm, company,
corporation or trade union) , and any person who
on behalf of any other person employs any
workman, and includes the legal heir, successor
in law, executor or administrator and liquidator
of a company; and in the case of an incorporated
body, the President or the Secretary of such body,
and in the case of a partnership, the Managing
Partner of Manager;
“earnings” means -
(a) wages, salary or fees;
(b) cost of living allowance, special living
allowance and other similar allowances ;
(c) payment in respect of holidays;
(d)  the cash value of any cooked or uncooked
food provided by the employer to employees
in prescribed employments and any such
commodity used in the preparation or
composition of any food as is so provided,
such value being assessed by the employer
subject to an appeal to the Commissioner
whose decision on such appeal shall be final;
(e) meal allowance;
(f) such other forms of remuneration as may be
prescribed;
(g) any other payment made to the employee in
connection with the service rendered by him,
but excluding overtime, bonus or any
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 32 -->

31Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
payment made for reimbursement of expenses
incurred by an employee.
“ Monetary Board” means the Monetary Board
established under the Monetary law Act;
50. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything contained in any other written
law, and in any case of conflict or inconsistency between
the provisions of this Act and such other law, the provision
of this Act shall prevail.
51. In the event of an inconsistency between Sinhala
and the Tamil text of this Act the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Act to prevail
in case of
conflict with
other written
law.
Sinhala text
to Prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10

<!-- page 33 -->

Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund32
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.