

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
 FOOD (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 29 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 07th June, 2011]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 10, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1Food (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2011
2—PL 005487—4,090  (02/2011)
Short title.
[Certified on 07th June, 2011]
L.D.—O. 26/2009.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  FOOD  ACT , NO . 26 OF  1980
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Food (Amendment) Act,
No. 29 of 2011.
2. Section 8 of the Food Act, No. 26 of 1980 (hereinafter
referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby repealed
and the following section is substituted therefor:—
8. (1) There shall be established a Committee
which shall be called the Food Advisory
Committee comprising of —
(a) the following ex-officio members —
(i) the Director-General of Health
Services, who shall be the Chairman
of the Committee;
(ii)the Director in charge of the Food
Control Administration in the
Department of Health Services, who
shall be the Secretary to the
Committee;
(iii)two Deputy Directors-General of
Health Services in charge of Public
Health Services;
(iv) two Assistant Directors of the
Department of Health Services
in charge of Food Control
Administration;
Replacement of
section 8 of Act,
No. 26 of 1980.
“Food
Advisory
Committee.

<!-- page 3 -->

Food (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 20112
(v) the Government Analyst or his
nominee;
(vi) the Director-General of Customs or
his nominee;
(vii) the Director-General of the
Consumer Affairs Authority
established under the Consumer
Affairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 2003
or his nominee;
(viii)the Director-General of the Sri Lanka
Standards Institute established by
the Sri Lanka Standards Institute
Act, No. 6 of 1984, or his nominee;
(ix) the Director-General of the
Department of Commerce or his
nominee;
(x) Director-General of the Department
of Animal Production and Health or
his nominee;
(xi) the Chief Medical Officer of Health
of the Colombo Municipal Council;
(xii) the City Analyst of the Colombo
Municipal Council;
(xiii)the Food Commissioner or  his
nominee;
(xiv) a Nutritionist from the Medical
Research Institute of the Department
of Health Services, nominated by
the Minister;
(xv) the Legal Officer of the Ministry of
the Minister to whom the subject of
Health is assigned; and

<!-- page 4 -->

3Food (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2011
(b) the following nominated members—
(i) an officer nominated by the
Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister to whom the subject of
Local Government and Provincial
Councils is assigned;
(ii)a Food Technologist nominated by
the Minister;
(iii)a Food Microbiologist nominated
by the Minister;
(iv) a Food Scientist nominated by the
Minister;
(v) a member nominated by the Minister
who shall represent commercial
interests relating to food;
(vi) a member nominated by the Minister
who shall represent industrial
interests relating to food; and
(vii) two members nominated by the
Minister to represent the interests of
consumers, relating to food.
(2) Every member of the Committee
nominated by the Minister shall, unless he
earlier vacates office by resignation, death or
removal, hold office for a period of three years
from the date of his nomination and shall be
eligible for re-nomination.
(3) Every ex-officio member of the
Committee shall cease to be a member of the
Committee on his ceasing to hold the office
which qualified him to be, or to  be nominated
as, a member of the Committee.

<!-- page 5 -->

Food (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 20114
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
(4) The Committee may discharge its functions
notwithstanding any vacancy among its members or any
defect in the appointment of any such member.
(5) The quorum for any meeting of the Committee shall
be seven members:
Provided however, that the Chief Food Authority may,
with the concurrence of the Committee, invite any person to
participate at a meeting of the committee, if the presence of
such person is necessary to facilitate the resolution of issues
relating to the implementation of the provisions of this Act:
Provided further, that the attendance of such invited
members shall not constitute the quorum required for that
meeting:
Provided further that any person so invited shall not have
the right to vote on any matter discussed at such meeting:
(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Committee
may regulate its own procedure in regard to its meetings and
the transaction of business at such meetings .”.
3. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Food (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2011
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.