

<!-- page 1 -->

13Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
VIJAYA  KUMARATUNGA  MEMORIAL
HOSPITAL  BOARD  ACT, No.38  OF 1999
[Certified on 11th  November , 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  November  12, 1999.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price: Rs. 9.00                  Postage: Rs.3.50
(Internet Version)


<!-- page 2 -->

1Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
[Certified on 11th November  , 1999]
L. D.  - O. 22/99.
A N  ACT  TO  ESTABLISH  A  BOARD  CALLED  THE  VIJAYA  KUMARA TUNGA
M EMORIAL  HOSPITAL  BOARD  ; TO  VEST  IN THAT  BOARD  THE
CONTROL , MANAGEMENT  AND  ADMINISTRATION  OF  THE  VIJAY A
K UMARA TUNGA  M EMORIAL  HOSPITAL  ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR
 MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
WHEREAS the Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation
established by the Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 31 of 1998 to perpetuate the memory of the late
Mr.Vijaya Kumaratunga has constructed a Hospital at Seeduwa
on the land and premises described in the Schedule
to this Act :
AND  WHEREAS it is wish of the Board of Management
of the said Foundation that such Hospital be administered
and managed with a view to advancing the ideal of the
late Mr. Vijaya Kumaratunga, to wit, of promoting
peace and goodwill among all communities and peoples of
Sri Lanka ;
AND  WHEREAS it is necessary for this purpose to vest the
control, management and administration of the Hospital
in an independent Board :
AND  WHEREAS the Board of Management of the said
Foundation has requested that legal provision be made for
this purpose and it is in the public interest to grant such
request :
Now THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :-
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
1. This  Act may be cited as the Vijaya Kumaratunga
Memorial Hospital Board Act, No. 38 of 1999.
2. (1) There shall be established a Board, which shall be
called  “The Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital Board”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) for the purpose of
managing and administering the affairs of the Vijaya
Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital (hereinafter referred to as
the “Hospital”) and consisting of the land and buildings
specified in the Schedule to this Act.
(2) The Board shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
3. (1) The Board shall consist of the following members
appointed by the Minister -
(i) the Chairman of the Board who shall be appointed
from among the members nominated under
paragraph (v) of this subsection ;
(ii) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister,
nominated by the Minister :
(iii) a person elected by the Medical practitioners
employed in the hospital, from among themselves ;
(iv) a member of any profession, who has achieved
eminence in that profession ; and
(v) four member representing the Vijaya Kumaratunga
Memorial Foundation, nominated by that
Foundation.
(2) The Chairman and every other member of the Board
shall hold office  for a period of three years from the date of
his appointment.
Short Title.
Constitution of the
Board.
Establishment of
the Vijaya
Kumaratunga
Memorial
Hospital Board.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
(3) In the event of the vacation of the office of the
Chairman or any other member of the Board, the Minister
may appoint another person to hold the office of Chairman or
member, as the case may be, during the unexpired period of
the term of office of the Chairman or member whom he
succeeds.
(4) If the Chairman or any other member of the Board is
temporarily unable to discharge the duties of his office by
reason of ill health or any other cause, The Minister may
appoint another person to act in his place as Chairman or
member, as the case may be.
(5) The Chairman or any other member of the Board may
at any time resign his office by letter in that behalf addressed
to the Minister.
(6) The Minister may, for reasons assigned remove the
Chairman or any other member of the Board, from office.
(7) Any member of the Board who, without leave of the
Board first obtained, fails to attend three consecutive meetings
of the Board, shall ipso facto vacate his office , with effect from
the date of the last of such meetings.
(8) Any member of the Board who vacates office other
then a member who is removed from office under this Act,
shall be eligble for reappointment.
4. The Member of the Board shall be remunerated in
such a manner and at such rates as may be determined by the
Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance.
5. (1) Meetings of the Board shall be held at least once
a month.
(2) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be four.
(3) The Chairman of the Board shall preside at the
meetings of the Board, or in his absence any member of the
Board elected from among the members present shall preside
at such meeting.
Remuneration of
the members of
the Board.
Meetings of the
Board.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
(4) The Board may act notwithstanding a vacancy among
its members, of any defect in the appointment of a member
thereof.
6. The seal of the Board -
(a) shall be in the custody of the Chairman of the Board ;
(b) may be altered in such manner as may be determined
by the Board ; and
(c) shall not be affixed to any document except with the
sanction of the Board and in the presence of two
members of the Board who shall sign the document
in token of their presence.
7. The land and premises described in the Schedule to
this Act are hereby vested in the Board.
8. The functions of the Board shall be to administer the
affairs of the Hospital and to ensure that it functions
efficiently and effectively as an institution for the care of the
sick.
9. (1) The Board shall have the power  to do all things as
are necessary for or conducive or incidental to the control,
management and administration of the Hospital, and the
discharge of its functions.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1),  the Board may exercise the
following powers :-
(a) to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind,
whether from local or foreign sources ;
(b) to take or  hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by this Act, or by
virture of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and to sell, mortgage, lease,
grant, convey, devise, assign, exchange or
otherwise dispose of, any such movable and
immovableproperty other than the land and premises
described in the Schedule to this Act ;
Powers of the
Board.
Seal of the Board.
Land and
premises vested in
the Board.
Functions of the
Board.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
(c) subject to the provisions of this Act, to appoint,
employ and remunerate officers and servants of the
Board and to make regulations regarding the
appointment,  promotion, remuneration and
disciplinary control of such officers and servants
and the grant of leave and other benefits to them ;
(d) to open, operate and close bank accounts and borrow
or raise money, with or without security ;
(e) to enter into such contracts as maybe necessary for
the discharge of its functions ;
(f)to do all other acts and things as are incidental or
conducive to the discharge of the functions of the
Board.
10. (1) The Board may appoint a Committee of
Management to administer the day to day affairs of the
Hospital.
(2) The Board may from time to time delegate to the
Committee of Management appointed under subsection (1)
such of its powers, duties and functions as may
by determined by the Board.
(3) The Committee of Management shall consist of the
following members :-
(i) the person designated as the Director of the
Hospital ;
(ii)three persons selected by the Board from among
the Consultants employed in the Hospital provided
that not more than one shall be from the same
speciality ;
(iii)the person designated as the Chief Matron of the
Hospital ;
(iv)the Person designated as the Secretany of the
Hospital or the chief Administrative officer of the
Hospital ;
Committee of
Management.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
(v) the person designated as the Chief Accountant of
the Hospital ; and
(vi) a representative of the Vijaya Kumaratunga
Memorial Foundation, nominated by that
Foundation.
(4) The Director of the Hospital shall be the Chairman of
the Committee of Management.
(5) The Chairman of the Board shall have the right to
attend any meeting of the Committee of Management.
(6) The Committee of Management shall determine the
quorum for, and the procedure to be followed at, the meetings
of such Committee.
11. The Minister may, from time to time, issue to the
Board general or special directions as to the exercise,
performance and discharge of the powers, duties and functions
of the Board and the Board shall comply with every such
direction.
12. (1) The Board shall have and maintain its own Fund.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Board -
(a) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Board by way of gift or donation, from local and
foreign sources ;
(d) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Board by way of grant from the Government ; and
(c) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Board as income from endowments and investments.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Board all
such sums of money as are required -
(a) to defray any expenditure incurred by the Board in
the exeirces, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act ;
Directions of the
Minister.
The Fund of the
Board.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
(b) to be paid as remuneration to members of the Board;
and
(c) under any other provision of this Act to be paid out
of the Fund of the Board.
(4) The Board shall be responsible for the administration
of the Fund of the Board.
13. (1) The financial year of the Board shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to be
kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Board.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Board.
14. The Minister may in Consultation with the Board,
make regulations in respect of matters for which regulations
are required or authorized to be made under this Act and in
particular in respect of all or any of the following matters :-
(a) the establishment of Consultative Committees to
advise the Board on -
(i) the adequacy and efficiency of the services
provided by the Hospital, including
recommendations for the provision of new
buildings and equipment for fulfilling the
demands made on the Hospital and for the
admission, or denial of admission, to the
Hospital, of patients suffering from any
specified diseases ;
(ii)the provision of courses of training within
Sri Lanka and abroad for officers and servants
of the Board and for this purpose to co-operate
Financial year
and
audit
of accounts
of the Board.
Regulations.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
with other hospitals or institutions whether in
Sri Lanka or otherwise in such manner and for
such purposes as the appropriate Consultative
Committee may determine ;
(iii)any other matters as the Minister may refer to a
Consultative Committee for its advice.
(b) the remuneration of the members of the Consultative
Committees ;
(c) The restriction of admission or entry of persons into
the Hospital, and the regulation of the conduct of
persons who enter therein.
15. (1) Any person who -
(a) within the premises of the Hospital, uses or makes
any obscene, indecent or offensive language or
gesture or behaves in any manner likely to annoy
or insult any person ;
(b) spits upon, or willfully damages, any part of the
property used for the purposes of the Hospital ;
(c) smokes or carries any lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette
or article for smoking in any part of the premises of
the Hospital in which a notice prohibiting smoking
is exhibited ;
(d) throws out of the Hospital, any bottle, liquid or
other article or thing likely to annoy persons or to
cause damage or injury to any person or property ;
(e) parks a vehicle in any part of the premises of the
Hospital in which a notice prohibiting parking is
exhibited ;
(f)damages or destroys any plant within the premises
of the Hospital or takes, collects or removes any plant
therefrom ; or
Offences.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
(g) destroys or damages any property used for the
purposes of the Hospital including any fixtures and
equipment,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall, on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate, be liable to a
finenot exceeding one thousand rupees.
(2) Where in a prosecution for an offence under this Act
a question arises as to whether any place is within the
premises of the Hosptal or whether any property was used for
the purposes of this Hospital, a certificate under the hand of
the Director of the Hospital to the effect that the place speci-
fied therein is within the premises of the Hospital or that the
property specified therein was used for the purposes of the
Hospital shall be admissible in evidence without proof of
signature and shall be evidence of the facts stated therein.
16. (1) At the request of the Board, any public officer
may, with the consent of that officer and of the Secretary of
the Ministry in which that officer is employed and the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of Public
Administration be temporatrily appointed to the staff of the
Board for such period as may be determined by the Board
with like consent , or with like consent be permanently
appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any public officer is temporarily appointed to
the staff of the Board, the provisions of subsection (2) of
section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act,
No.37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation
to him.
(3) Where any public officer is permanently appointed to
the staff of the Board, the provisions of subsection (3) of
section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act,
No.37 of 1991 shall, mutatis, mutandis, apply to and in
relation to him.
Appointment of
public officers to
the Board.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
(4) Where the Board employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government to serve the
Government for a specified period, any period of service to
the Board by that person shall be regarded as service to the
 Government for the purpose of discharging the obligations
of such contract.
17. (1) No action or prosecution shall be instituted
against any member of the Board or against any officer,
servant or agent of the Board appointed for the purposes of
this Act for any act which is in good faith done or purported
to be done by such person under this Act or on the
direction of the Board.
(2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any action or
prosecution brought by or against the Board before any court
shall be paid out of the Fund of  the Board, and any costs paid
to, or recovered by, the Board in any such suit or
prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Board.
(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is
referred to in subsection (1) in any action or prosecution
brought against him before any court in respect of any act
which is done or is purported to be done by him under this
Act or on the direction of the Board shall, if the court holds
that such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund
of the Board unless such expense is recovered by him in such
action or prosecution.
18. All officers and servants of the Board shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning and for the
purposes of the Penal Code.
19. The Board shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
Protection of
members of the
Board and
officers
&c. of the Board
for action under
this Act.
Officers and
servants of the
Board deemed to
be public servants
under the Penal
Code.
Board deemed to
be a Scheduled
Institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail
21. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires
“the Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation” means the
Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation established by the
Vijaya Kumaratunga  Memorial Foundation Act, No.31 of 1998.
                    SCHEDULE        (Sections 2, 7 and 9)
All that allotment of land marked Lot 1 depicted in Plan No.1055
dated 16 th February, 1995 made by K.P Chandrasekera,
Licensed Surveyor being a Part of Lot 8 in Plan No.32/92 dated
16 th October, 1992 made by A.J.B. Wijekoon, Licensed
Surveyor (Part of Lot 3 in P.P Gam 1627 authenticated by the
Surveyor General) situated along the Main Road from
Negombo to Colombo at Bandarawatta in Ward No.8
Bandarawatta within the Urban Council Limits of Katunayake-
Seeduwa and the Registration Division of Negombo in the
District of Gampaha, Western Province and which said
Lot 1 is bounded on the North by Lot 7 in plan No.32/92 on
the East by Lot 9 and balance portion of Lot 8 in Plan No.32/
92, on the South by balance portion of Lot 8 in Plan No.32/92
and on the West by Main Road from Negombo to Colombo
and containing in extent Three Acres (A3. R0.P0) or Hectares
1.2140 together with everything standing thereon.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Hospital
Board Act, No.38 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180
(Foreign). Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year
following.