

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
395
395
wxl 1"594 - 2009 ud¾;= 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'03'20
No. 1,594 – FRIDAY , MARCH 20, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 398
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 398
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 27th March, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th
March, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  Part III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,593 of  13.03.2009 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
396
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
397
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) St andard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
398
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT – GALLE   DISTRICT
Posts of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrars
THE date of closing of applications of the following Division which appeared in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
bearing No. 1,582 of 26.12.2008 is hereby amended as 17.04.2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which applications
Division applications are called should be sent
Galle Habaraduwa Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Addi. Registrar
(Ordinary) in Thalpe Pattuwa General District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths Galle
in Unawatuna Division
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
03–453
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  TRANSPORT – DEPARTMENT  OF  MOTOR  TRAFFIC
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Examiners of Motor Vehicles Class II, Segment "B" of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service for the Department of Motor Traffic – 2008(2009)
OPEN competitive examination for recruitment of Examiners of Motor vehicles to Class II, Segment "B" of Sri Lanka Technological Service
for the Department of Motor Traffic will be conducted only in Colombo in June, 2009 by the Commissioner General of Examinations. The
date of examination will be notified in news papers in due course. Commissioner General of Motor Traffic reserves right to postpone or cancel
this examination.
Interview.– Date of the interview in respect of candidates who score a high level of total marks determined as adequate by the
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic from among the candidates who secure minimum of 40% marks for each paper at the written test
will be decided by the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.
01. Number of persons appointed and the effective date of the appointments will be decided by the Commissioner General of Motor
Traffic.
02. Structure and the Monthly Salary Scale :
Special Class : Rs. 20,760 - 365 x 9 - 500 x 18 - Rs. 33,045
Class I : Rs. 18,490 - 5 x 240 - 14 x 320 - Rs. 24,170
Class II Category B : Rs. 16,450 - 180 x 11 - Rs. 18,430
Class II Category C : Rs. 14,570 - 10 x 170 - Rs. 16,270
(Appointee should pass the 1st efficiency Bar examination before reaching the salary step of Rs. 14,910 for the promotion to Class
IIA appointee should pass the 1st Departmental examination before the completion of 6 years service in the Class IIB).
Recruitment will be made by this examination to the post of Motor vehicle examiner of Class II of Category 'B'.
03. This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointees are required to contribute to the Widow's and Orphan's Pension Fund.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
399
04. Qualifications.– Every applicant :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should be of excellent moral character.
(c) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 45 years of age as at the date of closing applications. (This upper age limit
will not be applicable to the officers who are already in the public service.)
05. Applicants should fulfill the following qualifications :
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the University of Moratuwa or Hardy Technical Institute, Ampara.
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority.
(iii) National Advanced Diploma in Engineering awarded by the Ministry of Higher Education.
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University.
(v) Certificate  awarded  for  passing  01st part of the Engineering Examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Engineering
Institute ; or
(vi) Other qualification certified as Recognized to be equal to the above technological qualification by the Technical Services
Board.
06. Professional Knowledge and Experience :
(i) Every applicant, subsequent to the satisfaction of above technological qualifications, should have at least two years
experience in the relevant field at supervisory level in the Government Corporation, Incorporated Board or recognize garage
registered under the Company Act which contributes to the Employee's Provident Fund and Employee's Trust Fund at
least for 10 employees ; and
(ii) Posses a valid driving license issued for all motor coaches and motor cycles.
07. Every applicant should have necessarily fulfilled the all qualifications pertaining to the post before the closing date of the
application of the written examination.
08. Appointees should present themselves for the medical test conducted by the Government Medical Officer to check whether
he is physically fit to serve in any part of the Island.
09. All appointees should acquire proficiency, within the period of 5 years in the other official language other than the language
they have entered the public service.
10. Scheme of Examination.– Recruitment Examination consist of two question papers. The particulars are given below :
(i) General knowledge of Motor Mechanic - Duration :– Two hours. 100 marks.
(This question paper consists of multi choice and half structured questions.) Applicants should have basic knowledge of
the following technological field and faults relating to such fields :
1. Function and input of diesel and petrol engine.
2. Clutch and transmission system.
3. Lubricant system and cooling system.
4. Electrical System.
5. Fuel system of diesel and petrol vehicles.
6. Foot brake system, testing equipment for brake efficiency, time of reaction stopping distance.
7. Hand brake system.
8. Testing equipment for wheel alignment and geometry of steering wheel.
9. Suspension System.
10. Preparation of condition report of a vehicle.
11. Issue of fitness certificate.
12. General knowledge of functions of the Department and relevant duties of a Motor vehicle examiner.
13. General knowledge of painting, welding and fitting.
14. Automatic transmission.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
400
(ii) Intelligent Test :–
Duration : 01 hour - 100 marks
(question paper prepared to test the aptitude of the applicant including the fields such as Language and numerical skills,
reasoning power.)
Note :- (i) This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. Applicants should sit for this examination
in the same medium that is in Sinhala, Tamil or English in which the applicant appeared for the examinations to acquire
qualifications referred to in Para (I-VI) 5 in this notification. Medium applied for the examination will not be permitted
to change.
(ii) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to the candidates who appear for the
examination. However, receipt of an admission card should not be considered as a fulfillment of qualification required
for the examination.
11. How to apply.– Specimen form has been appended at the end of this notification. Candidates should prepare the specimen form
in the medium which he sits for the examination and clearly fill the relevant particulars in his own handwriting.
In the Sinhala and Tamil application the name of examination should be written in English at the top in addition to the respective
languages. Candidate should fill each Section in the application as per instructions provided and the term "not relevant" should be indicated
for sections which are not applicable. It should be strictly born in the mind that leaving blanks in the application may be rejected. Applications
which do not conform to the specimen form and incomplete applications, will be rejected without notice. The applicant may find useful to
keep a photocopy of the completed application. Further, the applicant should make sure whether the application form conforms to the specimen
form and please note that such application will be rejected.
(Specimen application should contain titles, 1-11 in the 01st page, from titles 2 to 3 in the second page and form 4 to 7 in the third
page. Both sides of the A4 paper should be used for this purpose.)
(ii) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach the "Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations Sri Lanka, Organization and Foreign Examinations Division, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 21st April,
2009. Applications received after such date will be turned down. Name of the Examination should be clearly indicated on
the top left-hand corner of the envelop enclosing the application.
(iii) A sum of Rs. 350 should be paid as examination fees to the District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to the head of revenue
No. 4000-20-03-20-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt should be firmly affixed on the due place
an applicant should keep a photocopy of the receipt. Under no circumstance candidate should be refund and allowed to
transfer such fees to other examinations.
(iv) The applicants who are already in the Government Departments/State Corporations/statutory bodies…… etc should
forward their Applications through the respective Heads of Departments or Institutions. Applicants are required to forward
their applications in advance to their heads of Departments with a written request to send the applications to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations on or before 21st April, 2009. The applications should not be addressed to the
personal name of the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic or to any other officer in the Department. Even the applications
forwarded through Departments are received after due date will be rejected. If the signature and official frank of Head of
Department/Institution have not been graced in the applications of the applicants who are already in the Public Service
for attestation of their signatures and such applications will be rejected.
(v) Attestations.– The signature of an applicant already in the Public Service should be attested by the head of the relevant
Department or by an officer authorized to do so and the signatures of the other applicants should be attested by a suitable
authorized officer such as Justice of the peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, principal of
a Government school, Commissioned Officer of any Air Force or Army, permanent public officer received annual
consolidated salary of Rs. 22,935 or higher as per PAC 6/2006, chief incumbent of Buddhist temple or Nayaka Thero and
priest who as in charge of other religious place of worship or holds an important position in the clergy.
12. Admission for examinations.– Admission cards will be sent to each candidate whose applications have been accepted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations. Candidates who sit for the examination should produce their admission cards to the supervisor after
attestation their signatures. Candidate who is unable to produce such admission cards will not be allowed to sit for the examination.
Applicants should sit for the examination in the examination hall reserved for them. No candidates will be allowed to sit for the
examination at any other examination halls other than the halls reserved for them. Every candidate appearing for the examination should produce

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
401
their admission card to the supervisor on the very date of examination. The rules for candidates have been published in Chapter (IIA) of this
Gazette, candidates are bound to observe these sales. If any candidate does not receive admission card at least seven days prior to the date
of examination and even after 2 or 3 days of the announcement of the examination it should be brought to the notice of the commissioner General,
Department of Examination, Sri Lanka as indicated in teh press notice. A written request should be made to the commissioner General of the
Department of examination, Sri Lanka with photocopies of the application, receipt for payment of examination fee, receipt of registration
and the fax No. to which the admission cards to be sent if the candidate resides outside Colombo and the candidates should keep the photocopy
of the request. Candidates will be subject to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of examinations and those who violate
such rules and regulations will also be liable to punishments meted out by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
13. Identity Cards.– Candidate should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor whenever they sit for each subject
and any one of the following documents will be accepted :-
(a) National Identity card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport issued within a period not more than 03 years before the date of examination.
Candidature of applicants those who are unable to produce one of the documents mentioned above may be cancelled at the discretion
of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
14. Documents regarding qualifications :
(i) No any other document will be sent other than the application together with the receipt for payment of examination fee
and nevertheless all other necessary details should be included in the application as required. Applications which are not
duly perfected will be rejected.
(ii) Candidates who are qualified for the interview should prove their suitability with documentary evidence.
(iii) Originals of the following documents are necessary.
(a) A character certificate signed by a responsible person
The character certificate can be obtained from a peace of the Justice, Attorney-at-Law, Divisional Secretary of the
Division in which the applicant resides or permanent public officer receiving a sum of Rs. 22,935 as monthly initial
salary or higher monthly salary as PAC 6/2006 or chief incumbent of Buddhist temple or Nayaka Thero, priest in charge
of religious place of worship and who holds important position in the clergy. The designation names and address of
the person issuing the character certificate should be clearly indicated.
Candidates who are already in the public service are not required to submit character certificate.
(b) A certified copy of Birth Certificate of the candidate or a special certificate regarding the age of the candidate issued
by the Register General in the case of the birth has not been registered.
Notice.– A certified copy of special Birth Certificate issued for educational purposes or use in schools and certified
extract from Birth Registration Entry will not be entertained Affidavits or baptismal Certificate produced
instead of a Birth Certificate will not be accepted. In the event of any difference between the name/names
appeared in the Birth Certificate and the name/names usually used by which the candidate appears for the
examination, a prompt action should be taken to after the name/names in the Birth Certificate in terms of the
regulation 27 or 28 of Births and Deaths registration Ordinance (Chapter 110) as appropriate.
(iv) A certificate of registration as a citizen of Sri Lanka or a letter issued by the Government indicating that the candidate is
a citizen of Sri Lanka by descend as appropriate.
(v) Educational, professional qualifications certificates as per the Gazette notifications.
(vi) A certificate obtained from the motor garage for the practical training.
(vii) A valid driving license for all motor coaches and motorcycles.
(viii) Candidates are advised to keep all necessary documents at the time of applying for this post. If any candidate who fails
or delays to submit necessary documents when such documents required he may be disqualified to be appointed to this
post.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
402
15. Provision of false information.– In terms of the regulations of the examination if any candidate is found to be disqualified to
appear for the examination his candidature may be cancelled prior to or during or after the conduct of examination. If it is found that a candidate
has furnished false information knowingly or conceal any important matters wittingly or if he has been proved to be disqualified to sit for
the examination at any time, during his period of service it will result in immediate dismissal. Candidature of the applicant who have not duly
provided requirements in this notification will be cancelled.
16. Commissioner General of Motor Traffic, at his discretion, may decide on any other matter not stipulated in these regulations.
B. WIJAYARATNE,
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.
Department of Motor Traffic,
Elwitigala Mawatha,
Colombo,
06th March 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
D
EPARTMENT OF MOTOR TRAFFIC
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF EXAMINERS OF MOTOR VEHICLE TO CLASS II SEGMENT "B" OF THE
SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR TRAFFIC
(For office use)
Medium
Sinhala 1
Tamil 2
English 3 (Indicate the relevant Number in the cage)
01. Personal Information :–––––––––––.
1.1 Name indicating the initials last (In English block letters) (Eg. :– SILVA, A. B.) :–––––––––––.
1.2 Names denoted by the initials in English block letters :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/in Tamil) :–––––––––––.
1.4 Permenent address (to which the admission should be sent) in English block letters :–––––––––––.
1.5 Official address (In English block letters) :–––––––––––.
1.6 Sex (Mate - 0, Female - 1) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
1.7 Civil status (Unmarried - 1, married - 2) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
1.8 National Identity Card No. :
1.9 Date of Birth :
Year                              Month               Date
1.10 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years                               Months                         Days
1.11 Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka (Delete what is inapplicable) :
(a) Yes/no :–––––––––––.
(b) by decent/by registration :–––––––––––.
02. Educational Qualification :
(i) G. C. E. (O/L) N. C. G. E.
Year :–––––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subjects passed Pass
........................... ..................
........................... ..................
........................... ..................
........................... ..................
........................... ..................
........................... ..................
........................... ..................
........................... ..................

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
403
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L)
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subjects passed Pass
........................... ..................
........................... ..................
........................... ..................
........................... ..................
(iii) particulars of degrees in Universities or other educational qualifications, if any :
Degree Subjects studied Year University
....................... ..................... ..................... .........................
....................... ..................... ..................... .........................
03. (i) Professional qualifications :
Name of course Institute Duration of course Year
....................... ..................... ..................... .........................
....................... ..................... ..................... .........................
(ii) ( a) Name and address of the Garage where you received the training :–––––––––––.
(b) Registration Number of the Garage :–––––––––––.
(c) Duration of the training ................ Years from ................. To .....................
(iii) ( a) Number of the driving license :–––––––––––.
(b) Date of issue :–––––––––––.
04. If you are an employee in a Government Department/Corporation :–––––––––––.
Name of the Department/Corporation :–––––––––––.
Present post :–––––––––––.  Date of appointment :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
05. Have you ever been convicted of any charge in a court of law ? Yes?No :–––––––––––.
If Yes give details :–––––––––––.
06. Examination Fee :
The receipt No. ..................... dated ................. issued by the Government Agent/Divisional Secretary for examination fee to the value
of Rs. 350 has been afixed in the next page.
07. Declaration of the Applicant :
I hereby certify and declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. I am well aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before the selection my application will be rejected and my appointment will be cancelled
with immediate effect if this inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(If the applicant is an employee of a Government Department/Corporation or Local Authority/Provincial Council he/she should submit
his/her application through the Head of the Department or Corporation or Chief Secretary.)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'03'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.03.2009
404
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT OR CORPORATION
I hereby declare that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .............................. is presently employed in this Department/Corporation Local Authority/
Provincial Council and his/her work and conduct is satisfactory and she is eligible to apply as per the Gazette notification and he/she can/cannot
be released from the service if he/she is selected to this post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
(Official Frank)
Name :–––––––––––,
Designation :–––––––––––,
Address :–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––.
03–524
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.