

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2141$52 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 19 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'09'19
No. 2141/52 -  THURSDAY  SEPTEMBER  19,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A - PG 4655 —1517 (2019/09)
Directions to prevent the misuse of movable or immovable properties belonging to the State, State
Corporations or Statutory Boards during the period of an election for the promotion of or in
prejudice to any party, group or candidate or obstructing the conduct of the election
THE Election Commission does hereby issue the following directions under Article 104B(04)(a) of the Constitution
for the purpose of preventing the use of any movable or immovable property belonging to the State, any State
Corporation or Statutory boards for the purpose of promotion or in prejudice of the election of any candidate of any
political party or independent group or using such properties in a manner that would obstruct the conduct of the
election.
M
AHINDA D ESHAPRIYA N. J. ABEYESEKERE S. RA TNAJEEV AN H. HOOLE
Chairman Member Member
Election Commission Election Commission Election Commission
Election Commission,
Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya,
19th September 2019.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2019
2A
 In terms of Article 104B(04)(a) of the Constitution "The Election Commission or the Commissioner General of
Elections shall have the power during the period of the election to prohibit the use of any movable or immovable
property belonging to the State or any State Corporation" for the purpose of promoting or preventing the election of
any candidate of any political party or independent group contesting the election. Under Sub-Article (b) of that
Article it shall be the duty of every person or officer in whose custody or under whose control such property is for
the time being, to comply with, and give effect to such directions issued by the Election Commission. All Public
Officers including all Secretaries to Ministries,Chief Secretaries of Provinces should comply with these directions.
Also the Heads of institutions should ensure that all officers coming under their control do comply with these
directions. These directions are applicable to all public institutions such as Ministries, Departments, Commissions,
Provincial Councils, Local Authorities, State Corporations, Statutory Boards, State Banks, State Universities and
Companies taken over by the government.
02. Officials
(i) Since the skills and knowledge of public officers and their time are deemed to be State property, no
public officer should engage in any activity to promote any party or candidate inside or outside the
office premises within the prescribed office hours or after reporting to work or while on duty leave.
Officers who are not entitled to political rights should not engage in political activities even after
availing leave. Even the officers who are entitled with political rights may engage in political activities
during office hours, only on personal leave or special leave approved in advance.
(ii) No officer or employee is entitled to use State properties viz . other public officers, vehicles,
communication equipment, printers, telephone facilities, photocopy machines, media equipment, circuit
bungalows etc. for political activities and doing so is strictly prohibited.
(iii) Officers should refrain from making any recruitment, appointments and promotions and transfers of
whatever nature in public institutions without the approval of the Election Commission other than those
which are formally executed under the powers vested in the commissions appointed by the
Constitutional Council.
(iv) The consent of the Election Commission may be granted for recruitments/ internal promotions initiated
before the election is declared considered by the Secretary to a ministry or head of a department to
implement without postponement under an all island programme and when the Commission is satisfied
that recruitments / promotions common to whole public service or public sector are carried out
without any political intervention. In any of these instances, a request should be made to the
Commission.
(v) When Public Service recruitments are made at divisional or provincial levels for the purpose of
avoiding interruptions to sanitary, janitorial or maintenance services and of maintaining essential
services, such recruitments should be made with the concurrence of the Election Commission and it is
the responsibility of relevant authorities to carry out such recruitments in a transparent manner and free
of political intervention.
(vi) General transfers of all public officers including teachers and principals of government schools who
would be deployed for election duties in the areas where election is to be held should be suspended
for the period starting from the day on which the nominations are received and ending two weeks after
the date of poll. Transfers of public officers or officers of State Corporations/ Statutory Boards who
would not to be engaged in election duties should not be carried out political grounds during the period
of election and it is the responsibility of all relevant authorities to give effect to transfers without
leaving room for complaints of political intervention. This is not applicable to transfers done on
disciplinary orders and if any transfer is required to be made on exigency of service or under special
circumstances, such requirement should be brought to the notice of the Election Commission and
approval obtained.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2019
3A
(vii) It shall be an offence for any public officer who is not entitled to political rights to engage in making
any propagation or statement using his/her private social media account or any other account to
promote or to prejudice any political party or candidate.  Public officers who are entitled to political
rights even should not engaged in such propagation using the state resources and making or publishing
hate speech shall be an offence.
03. Functions, Mobile Services and Trade Fairs
(i) Functions:
Functions such as laying foundations, opening ceremonies and vesting in the public utilizing government
funds and State properties should not be organized or conducted during the period of election since the
politicians who attend these functions may express opinions and views on the election and conduct of these
function ceremonially may lead to the promotion or cause prejudice to any party, group or candidate.
In the case of functions scheduled before the publication of the poll notice and which cannot be
cancelled or postponed, the Election Commission should be informed for instructions of the
Commission to proceed ahead.
In the event of conducting such function spending  government funds and if a promotion of or prejudice to
any party/group or candidate has taken place at such function, the officials who organized such function
should be held responsible for same. The officers who organize functions/events should bring to the notice
of the Returning Officers of respective districts of such events scheduled to be held during the period of
election well in advance enabling them to make arrangements to observe such events and keep records.It is
strictly prohibited to make any statement or to do any act, display or distribute flags/ banners/posters/leaf-
lets/notices promoting parties/groups or candidates at any function conducted spending State funds during
the period of election and the officers or authorities of State institutions who organize or fund such func-
tions should prevent such promotions taking place.
(ii) Mobile Services and Trade Fairs.
Since there is a tendency to use the mobile services and trade fairs conducted during the election
period utilizing public funds and State property to facilitate the public for the promotion of or causing
prejudice to parties/groups or candidates,organizing or conducting of such trade exhibitions or
carnivals should be avoided during the period of the election.  It should be brought to the notice of the
Election Commission of any such trade exhibitions or carnivals which have been scheduled prior to the
publication of the Notice of Poll to be held during the period of election and impossible to be
cancelled or postponed, for instructions of the Commission. In the event of conducting such trade
exhibitions or carnivals using government funds and promotion of or prejudice caused to any party/
group or candidate is taken place at such trade exhibitions or carnivals, the officials who organized
such events should be held responsible for same.The officers who organize mobile services and trade
exhibitions should also take action to bring to the notice of the Returning Officers of respective
districts of such events to be held during the period of election well in advance enabling them to make
arrangements to observe those and keep records.
It is strictly prohibited to make any statement or do any act, display or distribute flags/ banners /
posters /leaflets /notices promoting parties /groups or candidates at mobile services and trade
exhibitions conducted spending State funds during the period of election and the official or State
institutions that organize or fund such events should prevent such promotions or causing prejudice to
any candidate or party or group.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2019
4A
04. Implementation of programmes to provide common amenities and aids and Special Projects
(i) Long term or medium term special programmes may be implemented for the provision of facilities to
the public or for the development of the country or continuous programmes to provide the citizens with
common amenities and cannot be suspended due to the election. Action should be taken to ensure that
no promotion of or causing of prejudice to any party/group or candidate is taking place through such
special projects or continuous programmes after the issue of the Notice of Poll.
(ii) The Election Commission will monitor whether any promotion of parties/groups or candidates is taking
place through the aforesaid special projects or continuous programmes conducted during the period of
election.
(iii) During the period of election the launch of programmes to distribute State lands to conduct land
kachcheris to award title deeds for State lands, deeds to transfer ownership of houses and reliefs to
residents in election areas, providing subsides, fertilizer, agro equipment for the plantation industry, and
providing sports goods, kitchen and household items, equipment for self employment, bicycles, solar
power lamps, building material for house constructions, release of housing loans/ compensations etc.
should be suspended. However, if it is apparent that suspension of the programmes will impede the
meeting of needs of the general public, the Election Commission should be consulted for necessary
instructions. In the event the programmes already initiated or for which approval has already been
obtained should be proceeded with, it should be the responsibility of the officers who are charged with
such programmes to implement them with the participation of only the relevant officials without leaving
any room for the promotion of parties/groups or candidates.
05. Vehicles
(i) All officers in whose custody the pool of vehicles belonging to the State including motor cars, jeeps,
cabs and buses, should take extra care in maintaining vehicle pools and assigning such vehicles during
the period of election so as to prevent such vehicles being used for the promotion of election
propaganda campaigns of any political party, independent group or candidate. It should be noted that
assigned vehicles belonging to the State and vehicles rented to be used for specific duties are included
in the said category. During the period of election running charts should be properly maintained
particularly in respect of pool vehicles and vehicles other than assigned vehicles and the running charts
should be scrutinized by a staff officer on a daily basis to make sure that such vehicles are not used
for any political propaganda purpose. Action should be taken to ensure that State vehicles are not used
for the promotion of or causing prejudice to any political party on the pretext that they are used for
official purposes with fake entries to that effect in the running charts.
(ii) No vehicle other than those two vehicles assigned for the purpose of providing security to H.E. the
President can be operated without the exclusive registration number issued by the Department of
Motor Traffic and as such no Minister, Deputy Minister, member of their staff or other person can use
State vehicles or vehicles belonging to public institutions without the relevant registration number.
Therefore, Secretaries of Ministries / Heads of Departments and officers in whose custody the pool of
vehicles belonging to should ensure that no vehicle belonging to State Department or State institution
is operated with garage numbers (fake numbers).
(iii) All Secretaries of Ministries / Heads of Departments should ensure that public funds are not utilized
for the use of airplanes or helicopters or other vehicles for political propaganda activities.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2019
5A
06. State offices, buildings, schools, other buildings belonging to the State and Circuit bungalows
(i) Government offices, buildings, schools, other buildings and circuit bungalows belonging to the State
too are a State property. Therefore, such buildings should not be used to conduct political meetings,
discussions, etc. It should not be construed that these directions prevent the buildings and halls which
can usually be reserved on payment of specified fees by any political party/ group, candidate, from
being so reserved during the period of election on payment of relevant fees without causing any
discrimination towards any Party/ Group / Candidate. It is strictly prohibited to provide State owned
circuit bungalows, rest houses, holiday resorts free of charge to persons engaged in election
propaganda activities. It is strictly prohibited to reserve any State owned circuit bungalows, rest houses,
holiday resorts free of charge to persons engaged in political propaganda activities. Circuit bungalows,
rest houses, and holiday resorts belonging to the State or State institutions and situated in respective
areas to any politician, officer or any other persons hould not be reserved on a full time basis during
the period of election. Also, no person who avails accommodation at the said circuit bungalows should
be allowed to engage in promoting any party, group or candidate. Any election propaganda posters,
banners, cutouts, bill boards etc. to not to allowed to be displayed on State owned buildings or within
their premises.
(ii) When play grounds or bare lands and halls or such other buildings belonging to the State, Provincial
Councils and Local Authorities are reserved for the purpose of holding election propaganda rallies to
promote a Political Party/ Independent group or candidate, such reservation should be done in a
transparent manner that no special favor, priority or discrimination is meted out to any party,
independent group or candidate.  Also such venues should not be reserved for the use of any party /
group / candidate or for any other purpose for a prolonged period of time so that such venues are not
available for the use by other parties.
07. General
(i) State property, State institutions, vehicles, equipment, buildings, lands and public officers in particular,
should not be allowed to be used for the promotion of parties, groups or candidates in relation to the
election. No officer should allow any misdeeds such as attaching public officers of State institutions
and vehicles belonging to the State or State institutions or rented vehicles stationed outside the
electoral area to offices or institutions situated within the electoral area on the pretext that such
attachments are done to carry out urgent duties or special development project work in electoral areas
but used to promote (or to prejudice) parties, groups or candidates to take place. Officers, Vehicles,
equipments, belonging to Media Units of any State institution including Provincial Councils, Local
Authorities, State Corporations, Boards, State Banks, other Statutory institutions, and State Universities
should not be used for the promotion of any party, group or candidate. If entertainment equipments such
as podiums, stages, decorations and vehicles, airplanes and helicopters belonging to State institutions
are usually hired under normal circumstances, such hiring during the period of election should be done
in a transparent manner offering equal opportunities for all parties / groups to hire such equipments.
(ii) Promotion of or causing prejudice to any party / group or candidate should not be done by way of
broadcasting / telecasting / publishing through television, radio and press advertisement or by displaying
billboards at public places spending public funds to give publicity to development programmes of the
government or to anniversaries / commemorations.
(iii) All private cable television channels, private electronic and print media institutions, websites, mobile
and fixed telephone service providers should, act in such manner during the period of the election so
as to not cause any breach of election laws and in compliance with the media guidelines, directions and
instruction circulars issued by the Election Commission and it should be the responsibility of the
regulatory bodies of such institutions to ensure the strict compliance thereto by the institutions
aforesaid.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2019
6A
(iv) It shall be the responsibility of the Heads of State institutions and Provincial or Regional Heads of the
Local Bodies under whose custody or control such street lamp posts and telephone poles, public roads
and pavements etc. fall, to prevent such properties situated within their area of authority being used for
display of banners, posters, flags, billboards and other decorations and for advertising by way of
painting or otherwise with the intention of promotion or prejudice of parties / groups / candidates.
 (v) The Heads of Ministries, Departments or State Institutions should take action to remove photographs,
advertising boards, flags, billboards and decorations which have been erected before the commencement
of the election period and are being displayed at public places for the promotion or demotion of
parties/ groups / candidates.  The Heads of Local Bodies and the Commissioners and Secretaries of
such Bodies should take action to remove advertising boards, flags, billboards and decorations erected
at public places within their area of authority.
(vi) The directions preventing the use of State properties for the promotion or in prejudice of election of
any candidate at this election should be strictly adhered to without any favour. The Secretaries to
Ministries should pursue action to give instructions in this regard to the Heads of Departments, State
Corporations and other institutions coming under the purview of the respective Ministry. Also, the
Secretaries of Ministries and Heads of institutions should ensure that all officers of their respective
institutions comply with these directions and instructions.
(vii) Public of ficers should essentially draw their attention to Article 104b (02) of the Constitution which
reads as "It shall be the duty of the Commission to secure the enforcement of all laws relating to the
holding of the election and it shall be the duty of all authorities of the State charged with the
enforcement of such laws, to corporate with the Commission to secure such enforcement".
(viii) Please note that the responsibility of bringing the contents of these directions to the notice of
respective Ministers, Non Cabinet Ministers, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers and the staff of the
Ministers lies with the Secretary to the respective Ministry while the responsibility of bringing such
matters to the notice of Governors, Chief Ministers and other Ministers of the Provinces lies with the
Chief Secretary and the Secretaries of the respective Provincial Ministries.
(ix) The Secretaries to Commissions should pursue action to bring these directions to the notice of the
Chairpersons and Members of such Commissions, as applicable.
( x ) In addition to the provisions of the Constitution, it is the duty of the Chief Accounting Officer or
Accounting Officer of Ministries / Departments / institutions to prevent or to take action to prevent the
misuse of State properties.
(xi) Non-compliance with these directions is a punishable offence under Article 104(GG) of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The term "State" wherever it appears in these directions means all State institutions including State
Ministries, Departments, Provincial Councils, Local Authorities, State Corporations, Statutory Boards, Commissions, State
banks, State universities, Nationalized Companies  and institutions of which more than 50% of shares is held by the
State or State owned companies.
The term "public officers and employees" wherever it appears in these directions means all persons who
engage and are employed in the institutions aforesaid and receive a salary or allowance.
The Gazette Extraordinary No. 2048/12 dated 12.04.2017 issued in this regard is hereby rescinded.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.