

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2685
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"090 – 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 21 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'09'21
No. 2,090  –  FRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 21, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th october, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th september, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2683-b 81451- 5,403 (09/2018)
Note.–  (i) institute of Valuers of sri Lanka (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of september 07, 2018.
 (ii) debt conciliation (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of september 07, 2018.
N. B.–   Part iii of the Gazette No. 2089 of 14.09.2018 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2684
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2685
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of hEALTh,  NuTRITION  AND  INDIGENOuS  mEDICINE 
Departmental   Examination   for   Preliminary   Grade
Medical   Officers   and   Dental   Surgeons – September,  2018
it is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade before 
promotion to Grade II, By Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service and by the Medical Officers in Administrative 
Grade or specialist Grade who have not completed this departmental Examination during a period of two years from the 
date of appointment to such post as per section 08 of the medical service minute of sri Lanka in the Health services 
published in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 11.10.2014, will 
be held on 28.10.2018 in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. The venue and the time of the examination will be notified 
along with the admission card.
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary Grade who have not completed the relevant examination 
and Dental Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service can apply for this examination. Medical Officer appointed to a 
post in the administrative Grade or specialist Grade without having completed this examination also can apply for the above 
Examination.
03. Applications.– applications that should be prepared by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of 
this circular must be handed over to the Head of the institute on or before 21.09.2018. The applications that are certified as 
all the eligibilities have been fulfilled, should be forwarded to the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous medicine, “suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, colombo 10, on or 
before 28.09.2018 through their Heads of institutions. the Head of division should certify the accuracy of contents in each 
application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9” x 4” inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 45.00 should be 
sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private address). Applications which are received late, 
incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– the application should be prepared using an a4 paper based on the specimen form of the application 
so as to recommended from 01 to 04(e) on the first front page and from 04(f) to 09 on the second page. 
applications which do not conform to above will be rejected any information. 
04. examination fees :
 I.  Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, in every 
subsequent sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for 
in the application and cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
 ii. the fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any 
circumstances.
05. Admission to the examination:
 i.  candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with admission cards. they should duly 
complete and submit same to the supervisor at the Examination centre. otherwise they will not be allowed 
to sit the examination.
 ii.  candidates should prove their identity to the supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the 
following documents will be accepted :
  (a) National identity card ;
  (b) a formal identity card issued by the ministry of Health or a relevant institution ;
  (c) Valid driving License ;
  (d) Valid Passport.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2686
 iii. if you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination 
centre and the index number through the web site ; if you were able to trace your examination centre and the 
index number as mentioned above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the web 
site together with a letter attesting your signature by your immediate superior officer and sit the examination 
by establishment of your identity. the applicants who have received the admission card should certify their 
signature and should be bought. The applicants who have obtained the certification on their signature will 
not be entitled to face the examination. (Web site : www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the examination. – the examination consists of four parts that is three written essay type question 
papers and a sinhala/tamil oral test. Each part carries 100 marks. a minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each part 
to pass the examination and this examination could be completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the examination 
in several sittings. At the first attempt officer should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. Syllabus of the examination :
07.1 Written examination :
 07.1.1  Establishments code Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions.  
  Syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the department of Health services in Health ministry ;
 (ii)  orders and Regulations of the Public service commission ;
 (iii) establishments Code :
Part i - chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XV , XVi, XVii, XViii, XXiii, XXiV , XXV , XXVi, 
XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXi, XXXii
Part ii - chapters XLVii and XLViii ;
 07.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Questions Paper :
  duration 1 1/2 hours. total marks 100. should answers four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
  Syllabus :
  Health manual :
 (i) administration of Hospital and Public Health, 
 (ii) management of Laboratory services, 
 (iii) management of drugs.
 07.1.3  Accounts Questions Paper :
  duration 02 hours. should answer 04 questions out of 07 questions.  
  Syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations of stores accounts of the department of Health services ;
 (ii)  sections of Finance in the manual of the department of Health services ;
 (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health -  
chapter i - F. R. 1, 2, 78.
chapter ii - F. R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
chapter iii - F. R. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 143, 
151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 189.
chapter V - F. R. 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260.
chapter Vi - F. R. 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393 394.
chapter Vii - F. R. 488, 493.
chapter Xiii - F. R. 715, 716, 756, 757, 758.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2687
Procurement Guideline : 
chapter 1 - all sections
chapter 2 - section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
chapter 3 - section number - 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9.   
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure the 
proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium and the 
ability of the Tamil medium officers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that arise while 
discharging their normal duties is tested. duration 10 minutes. 
8. to follow the regulations related to Examination Procedure.– candidates are warned against copying or 
attempting to copy from the script of another candidate or from any book or paper or notes whatsoever. No candidate should 
attempt to look at the script of another candidate and should not help any candidate either help another candidate or obtain 
help from another candidate or person. Further mobile phone and the similar electronic equipments should not be used. any 
candidate who disregards this rule is liable to punishment. 
9. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized 
campaign/institution. the information is also available in the Web site - www.health.gov.lk
N.B.– Sinhala medium notification on examination will be effected if any contradictory is arisen in the 
examination notifications published in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. 
 
B. g. S. gunathilake,
 secretary,
 ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine. 
ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine,  
“suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10,
03rd september, 2018.
Specimen form of Application
 
For Office Use Only                
dEPaRtmENtaL  EXamiNatioN  FoR  PRELimiNaRy  GRadE
MEDICAl  OFFICERS  AND  DENTAl  SURGEONS - SEPTEMBER, 2018
01. (a)  (i)  Full Name of the applicant (in sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Full Name of the applicant (in English capitals block Letters) :
 (iii)  Name with initials (in sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (iv) Name with initials (in English block Letters) :

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2688
  (b)  (i)  designation (Please mark () in relevant cage) :
   (i) Medical Officer   (ii) Dental Surgeon
 (ii)  date of internship appointment :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade ii :–––––––––––––.
02. subjects offered (mark ‘’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. mark “X” against the 
subjects not offered) :
 admin. of Hospitals and dispensaries Est. code  accounts
 sinhala Viva Voce t amil Viva Voce
03. medium you sit for the examination  (mark ‘ ’ in relevant cage)
 sinhala                      English                        tamil 
04.  (a)  (i) Present station :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) this institution belongs to :  Line ministry
       Provincial council
 (b)   (i)  if Provincial council mention Province :–––––––––––.
   (ii) district of the Present station :–––––––––––.
 (c) mobile telephone No. :
 (d) National identity card No. :
 (e)  Please mark  “” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (if any or 
several examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due 
to absence of a sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers 
would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the director General of 
Health services).
  colombo Kandana Hambantota ampara
  Kaluthara Galle badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy batticaloa Jaffna trincomalie
 (f)  Whether two self-addressed envelop in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 45.00 has been 
attached to the application to post the admission card? :––––––––––.
 (g)   (i)   Postal address to post the admission card (in sinhala) :––––––––––––.
    ...........................................................
   (ii)  Postal address to post the admission card (in English) :––––––––––––.
    ..........................................................
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
 (b)  If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
stamp cage

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2689
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
 (i)  i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge 
and I need not affix stamps since, I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. 
………… since i repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not 
used.
 (ii)  i agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the ministry of Health Nutrition and indigenous 
medicine for the conduct of this Examination and if i was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the 
Examination i agree with whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of the officer who handle the Personal File : 
i certify that this application was handed over to me before the closing date and particulars furnished by the applicant 
in this application are true and accurate according to the particulars in the personal file and a copy of this application is 
attached to the personal file. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and signature.
date :–––––––––––.
08. Certification of Head of Institution :
 
i certify that mr./mrs./miss .......................................... serves as a ................................ in this institution and the 
particulars furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her personal file and he/she 
sit the examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of institution.
 (Rubber stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss ………...............................…… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/
campaign* and the particulars furnished by him/her* in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars 
available in his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
 specialized campaign (Frank/Rubber stamp).
date :––––––––––––.
(* - delete words which are inapplicable)
09–606

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2690
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND INDIGENOuS mEDICINE 
Recruitment (Open) to the Post of Nutritionist in Grade II of Field/Office based Officer Segment 02 
Service Category (MN 05-2006A)
APPlICATIONS are called from the Sri lankan citizens who have fulfilled following qualifications for the recruitment to 
the post of Nutritionist in Grade ii for the hospitals and institutions under the ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
medicine. 
01. Method of Recruitment.- From the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in this notification, 
candidates who will obtain highest marks from the written examination conducted by the secretary of the ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous medicine or an institute approved by him will be recruited after an interview to check the physical 
fitness and the eligibility of candidates considering the number of vacancies (The number of recruits will be determined by 
the secretary of the ministry considering the number of vacancies exist in the Health ministry and service exigency).
02. Required Qualifications :
 (i) Educational Qualifications :
 (a) Should have obtained a special degree in Food Science and Nutrition from a University recognized 
by the University Grants Commission. 
03. Physical Fitness.– Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri lanka and to discharge duties 
of the post. 
04. Other :
 (i) Should have satisfied all qualifications as at 22.10.2018.
 (ii) should be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 (iii) should be excellent in character.
05. Terms of engagement and Conditions of Service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. you shall be subject to a policy decision taken by the Government 
in future in respect of the pension scheme entitled to you. and, you should contribute to the Widows' and 
orphans' Pension scheme/Widowers' and orphans' pension scheme. you should make contributions to that 
as required by the Government from time to time. 
 (ii) Officers appointed to this post should be on probation for a period of 03 years and pass the first efficiency 
bar examination during such three years. The second efficiency bar examination should also be passed 
before expiry of 5 years from the date of promotion to Grade i.
 (iii) Officers should obtain the relevant proficiency in official langauge other than the langauge in which he/she 
entered the service within 5 years from the date of appointment as per the Public administration circular 
No. 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007. Officers entered the service in a medium other than an official langauge are 
required to obtain the prescribed official langauge proficiency. 
 (iv) this appointment shall be subject to Procedural Rules of Public service commission, Financial Regulations 
and provisions in the Establishments code. 
06. Age limit.– applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date 
of applications. 
07. Salary.– this post is under the salary segment mN 05 2016 a2 given in the P. a. circular 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2691
Salary Scale.– the salary scale attached to this post is Rs. 34,650 -10x660 -755 -15x930 - Rs. 63,460 and you are 
entitled to this salary from 01.01.2020. salaries will be paid according to the schedule ii of the about circular (you will be 
paid salaries from the effective date of the appointment).
08. Written examination will be held on following subjects :
Question Paper Duration Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
Syllabus
(1) subject Related test 01 hr. 100% 40% this paper will be prepared to test the 
knowledge required to the post
(1) intelligence test 01 hr. 100% 40% candidate's ability to understand the 
meaning, quantification and corelation 
between the time and space will be tested 
from the conclusions and responses of 
candidates to the problems given in terms, 
numbers and pictures.
09. Identity of the candidates.– candidates who have completed the application in all respects will only be called 
for the written examination. 
Following documents of identity will be accepted to prove their identity at the written examination :
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid passport. 
10. (a) applications should be sent to reach the following address on or before 22.10.2018. applications received 
after the closing date will be rejected :
  director (admin.) 07,
  ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine, 
  "suwasiripaya",
  No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, 
  colombo 10.
(b) Candidates should have fulfilled all qualifications and requirements in all respects as at the closing date of 
applications. 
(c) A specimen form of the application which should be submitted is appended to this notification. Applications 
should be prepared using a paper of size A4 and cages from 01 to 06 should appear on the first page and cages from 07 to 10 
should appear on the other side of the paper. the application should be perfected in the own hand writing of the candidate. 
(d) the words "Application for the recruitment (open) to the post of Nutritionist" should be written on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
(e) correspondence in connection with this may proceed via e-mail. therefore, you should provide an e-mail 
address and you should be on the alert. 
(f) candidate's signature in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government school/a Justice of 
the Peace/a Commissioner for Oaths/a Notary Public, an Attorney-at-law/a Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/an 
officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service who draws 
an annual consolidated salary of more than Rs. 334,452.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2692
(g) examination fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. the receipt obtained by paying this amount from any bank of 
ceylon branch to the credit of the account of "director General of Health services" No. 7041318 of the bank of ceylon, 
Thaprobane Branch should be affixed on the cage given in the application. 
(h) Officers who are already in the public service or provincial public service or semi - government institutes should 
forward their applications through the respective Head of department. 
(i) applications which are not in compliance with the specimen form of application will be rejected. No complaint 
on loss or delay of applications will be accepted. 
11. Providing false Information.– if any information provided in the application sent by you is found to be false or 
incorrect before the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. 
if so found after the recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss from the service subject to the relevant procedures.
 * in the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, 
the sinhala text prevails.
 * in respect of the matters arise on the facts of this Gazette notification, the decision of the Secretary of the 
Ministry of Health, Nutritionist and Indigenous Medicine will be final.
 b. G. s. gunathilaka, 
 secretary,
 ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine. 
ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine, 
“suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10,
06th september, 2018.
sPEcimEN FoRm oF aPPLicatioN 
RecRuitment (Open) tO the pOSt Of nutRitiOniSt Of the miniStRy Of health, nutRitiOn and indigenOuS medicine
district of Residence : medium of Examination :
 (sinhala - s/English - E/tamil - t)
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) e.g. :- siLVa a.b.
 1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/tamil)
02. 2.1 address (Private) :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
 2.2 address (Private) :––––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 Address (Official) :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
 2.4 Address (Official) :––––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/tamil) 
  (change of the address should be informed immediately)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2018
2693
03. 3.1 date of birth :
  y ear month date
 3.2 age as at t he closing date :
  y ears :–––––––. months :––––––––. days :––––––. 
04. National identity card No. :––––––––––––.
05. Gender :––––––––––––.
06. Qualifications :––––––––––––.
  (Qualifications under paragraph 02 of the 
notification)
 i. Educational Qualifications/Professional 
Qualifications :––––––––––––.
 ii. Experience :––––––––––––.
07. details of the receipt obtainted by paying the 
examinations fee :
 7.1 Office to which the examination fee was paid :               
––––––––––––.
 7.2 Receipt No. and date :––––––––––––.
 7.3 amount paid :––––––––––––.
Affix here the receipt obtained by paying the 
amount of Rs. 500 to a bank of ceylon branch 
so as not to be detached
08. Certification of the Applicant :
i solemnly declare that the information given herein 
are true and correct. i agree that if any information herein 
is found to be incorrect or false prior to the selection, my 
application will be rejected and if so found so after selection 
i am liable to be dismissed from service without any 
compensation. 
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
09. attestation of the signature of the applicant :
i certify that mr./mrs./miss ............................... is known 
to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on ...........................
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the attestor. 
Name in full :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Authenticate with official frank) 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.
10. Certificate of the Head of Department/Institute :
this applicant mr./mrs./miss ................................ has 
been serving in this department/Provincial council/institute 
from ........................... i hereby state that he/she can/cannot 
be released/from the current post if selected, and i certify 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of the Head of  department/institute.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
department/institute :––––––––––––.
(Authenticate with the official frank) 
09–667
––––––––––––––
REVisioN
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment of Persons, who have passed the 
Dharmacharya Examinations, to Grade 3–II of the 
Sri Lanka Teachers' Service for Filling Vacancies 
that exist for teaching Religious Subjects in the 
National and Provincial Schools of the 
Island –2018
tHE closing date of calling applications mentioned in the 
Notification 08-1136 appeared in the Gazette bearing No. 
2,087 published on 31.08.2018 is extended up to 31.10.2018.
 Sunil hettiaRachchi,
 secretary,
 ministry of Education.
ministry of Education, isurupaya, 
Pelawatta, battaramulla, 
on 14th day of september, 2018.
09–899