

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT (AMENDMENT)
ACT, NO. 46 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 22nd November, 2011]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 15.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 25, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
[Certified on 22nd November, 2011]
L.D.—O. 57/2007.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT
ACT, NO. 46 OF 2000
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Agrarian Development
(Amendment) Act, No. 46 of 2011.
2. The Agrarian Development Act, No. 46 of 2000
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after section 1 thereof,
of the following Part which shall have effect as PART I of
the principal enactment:—
“ PART I
TENANT CULTIVATORS OF PADDY LANDS
1A. A person being a citizen of Sri Lanka
shall, from and after the date of the coming
into operation of this Act, be deemed to be a
tenant  cultivator within the meaning and for
the purposes of the principal enactment, if, at
any time during the period commencing on
the eighteenth day of August two thousand
and ending on the day immediately preceding
the date of the coming into operation of this
Act,—
 (a) such person  had cultivated an extent
of paddy land under an agreement,
whether written or oral, entered prior
to, or on, the eighteenth day of August
two thousand;
Short title.
Insertion of new
Part I in the Act,
No. 46 of 2000.
“Persons
deemed to be
tenant
cultivators
for the
purposes of
this Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
2
(b) such person, being in terms of the
provisions of section 1D, a successor, of
a tenant cultivator who is deceased or
is permanently disabled, who had been
evicted from the extent of paddy land
which had previously been cultivated
by such deceased or disabled tenant
cultivator.
1B. (1) Where  at any time during the period
commencing on the eighteenth day of August
two thousand and ending on the day
immediately preceding the date of the coming
into operation of this Act, the nature of the
possession of any extent of paddy land specified
in section 1 A has changed by reason of any
sale, transfer or upon any Order of any Court,
no person shall, even though such person is
deemed to be the tenant cultivator by virtue of
the provisions of section 1 A, be placed in
possession of any such extent of paddy land or
be given possession of any such extent:
Provided however, such tenant cultivator
as is referred to above, may make an application
in writing, in that behalf to the Commissioner-
General of Agrarian Services setting out with
documentary proof, the reason which prevents
him from being placed in or given possession
of the extent of paddy land of which he has
been deemed to be the tenant cultivator. The
Commissioner-General shall, after such inquiry
as may be required in the circumstances and
on consideration of the facts before him and
upon summoning such person to make any
further explanation as he considers necessary,
make order that such person shall therefor be
paid compensation in lieu of placing such
person in or giving such person possession of
the relevant extent of paddy land.
Procedure to
be followed
where
possession of
the extent of
paddy land
cannot be
awarded to a
person
deemed to be
a tenant
cultivator.

<!-- page 4 -->

3 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
(2) Regulations shall be made specifying
the criteria to be taken into account in making
an order for the payment of compensation in
terms of the above proviso and the basis on
which the amount to be paid as compensation
is to be determined.
1
C. Where a person who pursuant to a
permit issued under the Land Development
Ordinance (Chapter 469)—
(a) holds an extent of paddy land subject
to the condition that such permit
holder himself shall cultivate such
extent of paddy land; and
(b) leases out such extent of paddy land to
a person who cultivates such extent of
paddy land,
the person so cultivating such extent of paddy
land shall not be deemed to be a tenant
cultivator within the meaning and for the
purpose of the principal enactment.
1D. (1) The rights of a tenant cultivator
under the principal enactment in respect of an
extent of paddy land shall in the event of the
death or permanent disability of such tenant
cultivator, devolve on the surviving spouse of
such tenant cultivator and failing such spouse,
on only one of the children of such tenant
cultivator:
Provided that in the latter instance, if there
is more than one child, the child whose sole
means of living is cultivation, shall be preferred
to the others:
Provided further, if there is more than one
child, whose sole means of living is
cultivation, the oldest from amongst such
children shall be preferred to the others.
Where the
lessee of an
extent of
paddy land
shall not be
deemed to be
a tenant
cultivator.
Devolution
of rights of
tenant
cultivators.

<!-- page 5 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
4
(2) The rights of a tenant cultivator of an
extent of paddy land which is cultivated, either
jointly or in rotation with any other tenant
cultivator, who dies or becomes permanently
disabled, shall in relation to such extent, be
devolved in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
1
E. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of
section 1 D, any tenant cultivator, other than
those who cultivate an extent of paddy land
jointly or in rotation with any other tenant
culitvator or cultivators, may nominate any
member of his family as the successor who shall
be entitled to succeed to the rights of such
tenant cultivator under this Act in respect of
the extent of paddy land he culitvates, in the
event of his death or permanent disability.
(2) Any nomination of successor may at any
time be cancelled by the tenant caltivator who
made such nomination and a fresh nomination
of a successor may be made by such tenant
cultivator.
(3) The nomination of a successor and the
cancellation of any such nomination shall be
effected by a tenant cultivator in a document
substantially in the prescribed form executed
in duplicate and witnessed in the presence of
the Government Agent or the Divisional
Secretary or the Registrar of Lands or a Notary
Public or a Justice of Peace, who is in charge
of, or is engaged in, official duties in  respect
of the area within which the extent of paddy
land relating to the nomination or cancellation,
is situated.
(4) No stamp duty shall be charged or levied
on the execution of a document specified in
subsection (3).
Nomination
of a
successor
by a tenant
cultivator.

<!-- page 6 -->

5 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
(5) The original and the duplicate of the
document executed in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (3) shall be submitted
for registration to the Commissioner-General
by the respective officer referred to in
subsection (3) in the presence of whom the
document is executed. Any such document
shall not be valid unless and until it has been
duly registered by the Commissioner-General.
(6) The Commissioner-General shall return
the original of the document submitted to him
under subsection (5) after registration, to the
tenant cultivator making the nomination or
cancellation and keep the duplicate thereof,
for the purpose of maintaining records. Such
records shall be inspected by any person upon
paying the prescribed fee.
(7) After the registration of a document
specified under subsection (3) whereby a person
is nominated as the successor to the rights of a
tenant cultivator under this Act in respect of
any extent of paddy land, a document specified
in that subsection whereby any other person is
nominated as the successor to those rights shall
not be registered unless the nomination effected
by the registered document has been duly
cancelled by the registration of a document of
cancellation. In one and the same document the
registered nomination may be cancelled and
another nomination in lieu thereof may be made.
In that event the document in which such
cancellation and nomination are combined may
be registered and shall upon due registration
operate both as a cancellation of the previously
registered nomination and as the nomination of
a new nominee.

<!-- page 7 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
6
(8) Where an application under subsection
(3) of section 53 is made to the Commissioner-
General, to amend an Agricultural Lands
Register by entering the name of a new tenant
cultivator therein, in the event of the death or
permanent disability of a tenant cultivator, a
document, if any, nominating a successor to
the rights of the tenant cultivator under
subsection (1), or cancelling any such
nomination under subsection (2), shall be taken
into account by the Commissioner-General and
upon verifying the facts of the application, he
shall make order to the Agrarian Development
Council of the area within which the paddy
land relating to such application is situated, to
make entries required to include the name of
the applicant as the new tenant cultivator of
the relevant paddy land.
(9) Regulations shall be made prescribing
the procedure for registration of a document
specified under subsection (3), including the
registers which shall be kept for maintaining
records of the documents submitted to the
Commissioner-General under this section.
(10) For the purposes of this section “member
of the family” means the spouse or a son or a
daughter of the tenant cultivator, whose main
occupation is cultivation and whose only
source of income is derived from the extent of
paddy land cultivated by the tenant cultivator.
1F. (1) Where a tenant cultivator of any
extent of paddy land dies or becomes
permanently disabled, and if there is no
successor  in terms of the provisions of section
1D or 1E, to inherit the rights of such deceased
or permanently disabled tenant cultivator, as
the  case may be, in respect of such extent, the
Where there
is no
successor.

<!-- page 8 -->

7 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
landlord being the owner of such extent may,
if he so desires, take possession of such extent
of paddy land and cultivate the same as the
owner cultivator of such extent:
Provided that prior to cultivating such land
as the owner cultivator, the landlord shall give
written notice to the Commissioner-General,
of his intention so to cultivate such extent of
paddy land as owner cultivator.
(2) If it is proved to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner-General, that the tenant
cultivator has died or has become permanently
disabled and there is no successor of the family
in terms of the provisions of section 1
D or 1E, to
inherit the rights of the deceased or of
permanently disabled tenant cultivator, he
shall permit the owner of such extent of paddy
land to occupy and cultivate such extent as
the owner cultivator thereof.
1
G. (1) Where the tenant cultivator of an
extent of paddy land has died or has become
permanently disabled, no person who is not
entitled to the rights of a tenant cultivator in
respect of such extent of paddy land shall
occupy and use such extent of paddy land.
(2) Where a person uses or occupies an
extent of paddy land in contravention of the
provisions of subsection (1), the Commissioner-
General shall in writing, order such person to
vacate such extent, on or before such date as
shall be specified in such order. If such person
fails to comply with such order, he shall be
evicted from the relevant extent of paddy land
in accordance with the provisions of section 8.
Person not
entitled to
rights of a
deceased or
permanently
disabled
tenant
cultivator in
respect of
any extent of
paddy land
not to use or
occupy same.

<!-- page 9 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
8
1H. (1) Where on the death or permanent
disability of a tenant cultivator of any extent
of paddy land, there is a dispute as to the person
on whom the rights of such tenant cultivator
under this Act should devolve, the parties to
the dispute shall first refer such dispute to the
Commissioner-General for determination, after
having given written notice of such dispute to
the Commissioner-General by registered post.
(2) On receipt of the notice under subsection
(1), the Commissioner-General shall refer the
dispute to an Agrarian Tribunal and direct such
Tribunal to hold an inquiry for the purpose of
determining the person on whom the rights of
the deceased or permanently disabled tenant
cultivator shall devolve.
(3) The determination of the Agrarian
Tribunal shall be communicated by registered
post to the Commissioner-General with copies
to the parties to such dispute.”
3. The Headings “PART I” and “Rights of persons who
cultivate paddy lands” appearing immediately after section
1 of the principal enactment are hereby replaced by the
following:—
“PART I
A
RIGHTS OF TENANT CULTIVATORS OF PADDY LANDS”.
4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words and figures
“section 6” of the words and figures “section 1A”, wherever
it appears in that section.
5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
Replacement of
the Headings of
PART I of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.
Commissioner-
General to
determine
disputes
regarding
devolution of
rights of
tenant
cultivators.
Repeal of
section 6 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 10 -->

9 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
6. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (6) thereof and
substitution therefor of the following:—
“(6) The landlord of the extent of paddy
land and the person evicted shall be given an
opportunity of being heard in person or through
a representative, at an inquiry held by the
respective Agrarian Tribunal. On the conclusion
of the inquiry, the decision of the Agrarian
Tribunal shall be communicated in writing by
registered post to the Commissioner-General, the
landlord and the person evicted.”;.
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (6)
thereof of the following new subsections:—
“(6A) The landlord or the person evicted who
is aggrieved by the decision of the Agrarian
Tribunal may, within thirty days of the
communication of the decision to him, appeal
therefrom to the Board of Review established
under section 42A either on a question of law or
fact. Such appeal shall be submitted to the
Commissioner-General within the time period
allowed for such appeal and the Commissioner-
General shall forthwith refer such appeal to the
Panel appointed under subsection (1) of section
42A to be heard and concluded by a Board of
Review established under the provisions of
subsection (5) of section 42 A.
(6B) The Board of Review established under
subsection (5) of section 42 A shall inquire into
all appeals referred to such Board under
subsection (6 A) and inform the parties thereto
and the Commissioner-General in writting by
registerd post of its decision thereon.
Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 11 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
10
(6C) The landlord or the person evicted who
is aggrieved by the decision of the Board of
Review may, within thirty days of the
communication of the decision to him, appeal
to the High Court of the Province against such
decision on a question of law. A copy of the
appeal shall be sent to the Commissioner-
General by registered post at the time when the
appeal is made.
(6
D) Where no appeal is made against the
decision of the Board of Review within the time
allowed therefor, such decision shall be final.”;
(3) by the repeal of subsection (7) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following:—
“(7) Where at any inquiry referred to in
subsection (6
B)  the Board of Review decides
that—
(a) eviction has taken place and no appeal
has been made under subsection (6 C)
against such decision within the time
allowed therefor or the High Court of
the Province has, in an appeal made
under subsection (6
C) confirmed the
decision of the Board of Review; or
(b) eviction has not been taken place and
the High Court of the Province has, in
an appeal made under subsection (6 C),
varied the decision of the Board of
Review and confirmed the fact that
eviction has in fact taken place,
then, in any one of the above situations—
(i) the person evicted shall be
entitled to have the use and
occupation of the extent of
paddy land restored to him; and

<!-- page 12 -->

11 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
(ii) the Commissioner-Genetal shall
on receipt of the decision of the
Board of Review or the High Court
of the Province, as the case may
be, by  an order in writting require
all persons in occupation of the
extent of paddy land in dispute to
vacate such extent on or before
such date as shall be specified in
such order, and if such persons fail
to comply with such order, they
shall be evicted from such extent
in accordance with the provisions
of section 8; and
(iii) the landlord of such extent shall
be required to pay damages at
such rate as may be prescribed to
the person mentioned in sub-
paragraph (i), for each day during
which such person in respect of
whom an order has been made,
continues to occupy such extent
after the date specified in such
order, unless the Board of Review
or the High Court of the Province
has determined that  such person
was evicted without the
knowledge, consent or
connivance of the landlord.”.
7. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words and figures
“section 6” wherever those words and figures appear of the
words and figures “section 1
A”.
8. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
Amendment of
section 19 of the
principal
enactment.
Repeal of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 13 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
12
9. Section 39 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following:—
“(1) The Commissioner-General shall
appoint for every administrative district or for
one or more administrative districts one or more
Agrarian Tribunals consisting of one person
appointed from among retired judges who have
had more than seven years experience, or retired
public officers who have had seven years
expenrience at executive level in the field of
agrarian services.”;
(2) in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution for the
words “Where a member of an Agrarian Tribunal”
of the words “Where the person appointed to the
Agrarian Tribunal”;
(3) by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following:—
“(3) Every person appointed to the Agrarian
Tribunal shall, unless he earlier vacates office,
hold office for a period of three years:
Provided that—
(a) a person appointed in place of a person
who has died, resigned or been removed
from office, shall hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of
the person whom he succeeds; and
(b) a person appointed in place of a person
who is absent from Sri Lanka or is ill, shall
hold office for the period of absence or
illness of such person. ”;
Amendment of
section 39 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 14 -->

13 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
(4) by the repeal of subsection (4) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following:—
“(4) A person vacating office by effluxion of
time shall be eligible for re-appointment.”
(5) by the repeal of subsection (5) thereof; and
(6) by the repeal of subsection (9) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following:—
“(9) An Agrarian Tribunal shall inquire into
and conclude all applications and complaints
referred to it under this Act within a period of six
months from the date of receipt of such
application or complaint and shall inform the
parties thereto and the Commissioner-General
by registerd post of its decision thereon.”.
10. Section 40 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
11. Section 41 of the principal enectment is hereby
amended—
(1) in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for the
words “ any such application, complaint or appeal
has not preferred an appeal to the Court of Appeal”
of the words “any such application or complaint
has not preferred an appeal to the Board of Review”;
(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following subsection:—
“(2) Where any such party has preferred an
appeal to the Board of Review against the
decision of the Agrarian Tribunal within thirty
days of the receipt by him of the decision of the
Agrarian Tribunal, the decision of the Board of
Review once given, shall be given effect to.”.
Repeal of
section 40 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 41 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 15 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
14
12. Section 42 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor:—
42. Any party aggrieved by the decision of
an Agrarian Tribunal on any application or
complaint referred to it under this Act, may
make an appeal to a Board of Review
established under section 42
A, within thirty
days from the date of receipt of such decision.”.
13. The following new Part is inserted immediately after
section 42 of the principal enactment and shall have effect
as Part IV
A of that enactment:—
“PART IVA
BOARDS OF REVIEW
42A. (1) The Judicial Service Commission
shall appoint a Panel of not more than nine
persons from among the persons who have a
wide knowledge in the fields of law and agrarian
services for the purpose of establishing Boards
of Review for a period of three years.
(2) Where a member of the Panel vacates
office by reason of death, resignation, removal
from office, absence from Sri Lanka or illness,
another person shall be appointed in his place
subject to the provisions of subsection (1).
(3) ( a) A person appointed in place of a
member who had died, resigned or been
removed from office shall hold office for the
unexpired portion of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.
(b) A person appointed to act for a member
who is absent from Sri Lanka or is ill, shall
hold office for the period of absence or illness
of the member whom he succeeds.
Replacement of
section 42 of the
principal
enactment.
“Right of
Appeal.
Insertion of new
Part IV
A in the
principal
enactment.
Boards of
Review.

<!-- page 16 -->

15 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
(4) One of the members of the Panel shall be
appointed as the Chairman of the Panel.
(5) ( a) There shall be established for the
purpose of this Act, such number of Boards of
Review as may be determined  by the
Commissioner-General.
(b) The Commissioner-General shall
derermine from among such number of Boards
of Review, the number of Boards which are
required for any particular  Administrative
District, depending on the requirement of such
District:
Provided that, the number of Boards
determined by the Commissioner-General as
being operated within an Administrative
District shall not exceed three such Boards.
(6) It shall be the duty of any Board of
Review established under subsection (5) to
entertain appeals of any aggrieved party
referred to such Board of Review under the
provisions of this Act and the proceedings in
respect of any such appeal shall be concluded
within a period of six months from the date of
receipt of any such appeal by the Board of
Review.
(7) Each Board of Review, shall comprise
three members selected by the Chairman from
among the members of the Panel appointed
under subsection (1) for the purpose of
exercising the power conferred on a Board of
Review under subsection (6). The Chairman
may select himself as a member of any particular
Board of Review.

<!-- page 17 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
16
(8) Where the Chairman of the Panel is a
member of a Board of Review constituted under
this section then he, or where he is not a member
of a Board, then such member of the Board as
may be nominated by such Chairman, shall be
the President of such Board of Review.
(9) There shall be appointed to each Board
of Review a Secretary, who shall in respect of
every appeal heard by the Board, keep a record
of all such proceedings before the Board as
relates to that appeal.
(10) A Board of Review may examine any
witness on oath if it thinks fit so to do, and may
summon any person to appear before it or to
produce any documents which may be relevant
in the opinion of the Board.
(11) The documents, notices or summons
issued under the hand of the President of a
Board of Review or the Secretary of a Board of
Review, shall be deemed to have been issued
by that Board of Review.
(12) When a Board of Review, has issued or
deemed to have issued summons on any person
and such person,—
(a) fails without reasonable cause to appear
before the Board of Review at the time
and place mentioned in the summons;
or
(b) refuses without reasonable cause to be
sworn or affirmed, or having been duly
sworn or affirmed, refuses or fails
without reasonable cause to answer any
question put to him by a member of the
Board of Review touching the matters
to be heard and determined by such
Board, or willfully gives a false answer
to any such question; or

<!-- page 18 -->

17 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
(c) refuses or fails without reasonable cause
to produce before the Board of Review
any document which is in his
possession and which he has been
required to produce,
such person shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act  and shall on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not
exceeding rupees ten thousand or to
imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding three months or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
(13) Regulations may be made in regard to
the allowances to be paid and procedure to be
followed at the meeting of a Board of Review.
42
B. (1) Where any party to any such appeal
has not preferred an appeal to the High Court
of the Province against the decision of the
Board of Review within thirty days of the
receipt by him of the notice of the decision of
the Board of Review, the decision of the Board
of Review shall be given effect to.
(2) Where any such party has preferred an
appeal to the High Court of the Province
against the decision of the Board of Review,
within thirty days of the receipt by him of the
decision of the Board of Review, the decision
of the High Court of the Province given in
repeal thereof, shall be given effect to.”.
14. Section 53 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following:-
“(3) An application to amend the
Agricultural Lands Register by entering the
name of a new tenant cultivator, in the case of
When the
decision of a
Board of
Review shall
be executed.
Amendment
of section 53
of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 19 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
18
the death or permanent disability of the tenant
cultivator of an extent of paddy land included
in the Register shall be made in writing to the
Commissioner-General,  accompanied by a letter
from the owner consenting to the registration of
the applicant as the tenant cultivator in respect
of that extent of paddy land, and the
Commissioner-General shall make order thereon:
Provided however, where the applicant
proves to the satisfection of the Commissioner-
General that he is the successor in terms of the
provisions of section 1
D or 1 E, to the tenancy
rights of the deceased or permanently disabled
tenant cultivator, the Commissioner-General
shall make such order notwithstanding the
consent of the owner.”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)
thereof of the following subsection:—
(3
A) The Commissioner-General shall take
steps to conduct annually, a census of the tenant
cultivators of paddy lands with a view to
annually updating the Agricultural Lands
Registers.”;
(3) by the repeal of subsection (8) thereof.
15. Section 101 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended—
(1) by the insertion immediatly after the definition of
the expression “evict” of the following
definition:—
“High Court of the Province” means the High Court
established for the Province in terms of Article
154
P of the Constitution;”.
Amendment of
section 101 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 20 -->

19 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
(2) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “statutory tenant” of the following
definition:—
“ “permanent disability” in relation to a person
means the—
(a) loss of both hands; or
(b) loss of both legs; or
(c) loss of eye sight of both eyes; or
(d) loss of one hand and one leg; or
(e) loss of one leg and eye sight of one
eye; or
(f) loss of one hand and eye sight of
one eye; or
(g) body paralysis; or
(h) being of unsound mind;”.
16. The principal enactment is hereby amended by the
substitution for the words “Court of Appeal” wherever those
words appear in the principal enactment, of the words “High
Court of the Province”.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
General
amendment to
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 21 -->

 Agrarian Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 46 of 2011
20
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .