

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of July 11, 2025
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 17.07.2025)
NATIONAL BUILDING RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
to provide for the establishment of the National Building Research Institute 
and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 101.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
2-2d
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
A
BILL
Ordered to be published by the Minister of  Defence

<!-- page 2 -->

1National Building Research Institute
5
10
15
20
L.D. – O 33/2012
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL 
BUILDING R ESEARCH I NSTITUTE AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED 
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
 BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-  
 
1.  This Act may be cited as the National Building Research 
Institute Act, No.     of 2025.  
PART I
 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL BUILDING RESEARCH 
INSTITUTE    
2.  (1) There shall be established an Institute to be called 
and known as the National Building Research Institute 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”).               
(2) The Institute shall, by the name assigned to it by 
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual 
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in 
its corporate name.  
3. The objects of the Institute shall be -  
 ( a) to conduct and promote research and surveys in 
the areas prone to landslides or an area having 
geotechnical instability with a view to minimizing 
its impact, and developing such areas in a sustainable 
manner;   
Short title 
Establishment 
 of the National  
Building 
Research 
Institute  
Objects of the  
Institute  

<!-- page 3 -->

National Building Research Institute2
5
10
15
20
25
 ( b) to ensure that construction and development 
activities are conducted in a manner that is disaster 
resilient in the areas prone to landslides or an area 
having geotechnical instability in accordance with 
the National Policy on Construction formulated 
under section 2 of the Construction Industry 
Development Act, No. 33 of 2014 and the National 
Policy and Program on the Management of Disasters 
formulated under the provisions of the Sri Lanka 
Disaster Management Act, No. 13 of 2005, and to 
provide related technical assistance; and  
 ( c) to undertake research related to ensuring disaster 
resilient built environment.    
4. The Institute shall have the following powers: -  
 ( a) to assist the relevant authorities on safe development 
and construction practices in accordance with the 
National Policy on Construction formulated under 
section 2 of the Construction Industry Development 
Act, No. 33 of 2014 and the National Policy and 
Program on the Management of Disasters formulated 
under the provisions of the Sri Lanka Disaster 
Management Act, No. 13 of 2005 on the request 
made by such relevant authorities;   
 ( b) to monitor and verify compliance of the Landslide 
Risk Assessment Report or Geotechnical Stability 
Assessment Report and to issue Certificate of 
Conformity in terms of section 24 of this Act;  
 ( c) to assist the relevant authorities on any construction 
or development activity endangering human life, 
property and environment within the areas prone 
to landslides or the areas having geotechnical 
instability; 
Powers of the 
Institute   
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3National Building Research Institute
5
10
15
20
25
30
   ( d) to formulate disaster risk reduction planning and 
practices;  
 ( e) to appoint technical advisory committees;  
 ( f) to purchase and hold, take or give on lease or hire, 
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, any 
movable or immovable property;  
 ( g) to employ, hire or obtain the services of any person 
with necessary expertise, knowledge, skills and 
experience for the activities of the Institute;  
 ( h) to charge fees or any other payments for any services 
provided by the Institute;  
 ( i) to accept grants, gifts or donations received from 
persons or bodies of persons within or outside 
Sri Lanka:               
   Provided that, notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary in any other provisions of this Act, the 
Board shall obtain prior written approval of the 
Department of External Resources in respect of all 
foreign grants, gifts or donations;  
 ( j) to open and maintain current, savings, or deposit 
accounts in any bank or finance institute in                       
Sri Lanka;  
 ( k) to invest in any bank and any ﬁ nance institute any 
funds not immediately required for the purposes of 
the Institute in such manner as the Board may think 
appropriate;  
 ( l) to enter into and perform all such contracts or 
agreements as may be necessary for the exercise of 
the powers and the carrying out of the objects of the 
Institute; and   

<!-- page 5 -->

National Building Research Institute4
5
10
15
20
25
 ( m) to do all such acts and things which may be 
conducive or incidental to, the achievement of the 
objects of the Institute as may be authorized by the 
Board. 
5. The functions of the Institute shall be -  
 ( a) to assist the functions of a  technical nature of 
the National Council for Disaster Management 
established under section 2 of the Sri Lanka Disaster 
Management Act, No. 13 of 2005 as the national 
focal point for landslide risk management;   
 ( b) to investigate, identify and map the areas prone to 
landslides or the areas having geotechnical instability 
and demarcate the susceptibility levels and prepare 
hazard zonation maps;  
 ( c) to identify and declare an area with risk of a potential 
landslide as a “landslide danger zone” for the 
purpose of evacuation of persons;  
 ( d) to issue early warning for areas with potential 
impacts due to landslides;  
 ( e) to issue Landslide Risk Assessment Report for 
any type of construction or development activity 
conducted in the area prone to landslides;  
 ( f) to conduct research and studies on landslides and 
monitor impacts of climate change on landslides 
and to design and implement mitigatory measures 
to reduce risks associated with landslide;    
 ( g) to provide proactive scienti ﬁ c solutions to minimize 
social, economic and environmental impacts due to 
landslides;  
Functions of 
the Institute

<!-- page 6 -->

5National Building Research Institute
5
10
15
20
25
 ( h) to assist the relevant authorities in the preparation 
of land use plans in an area prone to landslides or 
an area having geotechnical instability;  
 ( i) to perform geotechnical investigations and provide 
technical services on ground improvement and slope 
stabilization measures;  
 ( j) to conduct research relating to construction in areas 
having geotechnical instability and to provide related 
technical assistance;  
 ( k) to make recommendations to the Minister to 
prescribe the scope of geotechnical investigations 
and design for engineering applications;  
 ( l) to issue Geotechnical Stability Assessment Reports 
on ground stability for excavation or construction;  
 ( m) to function as a depository of all information related 
to geotechnical investigations;  
 ( n) to conduct research on disaster resilient construction 
and to provide related technical assistance  ;
 ( o) to assess chemical, physical and biological changes 
in environment to provide related technical solutions;  
 ( p) to assess building based on structure, occupancy, 
energy and environment on the request of the 
occupant or the owner of the building and to provide 
technical assistance;  
 ( q) to conduct research on materials, products and 
technologies used for construction purposes and 
suitability thereof;  

<!-- page 7 -->

National Building Research Institute6
5
10
15
20
25
 ( r) to investigate into the conditions of damage, safety 
and incorporation of disaster resilient design and 
construction features in buildings and structures 
and provide technical solutions on structural safety, 
on the request of the occupant or the owner of the 
building;  
 ( s) to provide assistance to the relevant authorities in 
the development of policy, guidelines, speciﬁ cations 
and standards in respect of the construction and 
development activities, on the request made by such 
relevant authorities;  
 ( t) to disseminate scienti ﬁ c knowledge and information 
in areas of expertise of the Institute through 
awareness creation, training and technology transfer; 
and  
 ( u) to collaborate with local and international 
stakeholders in conducting research and surveys 
subject to the approval of the Board and to 
disseminate the outcome of such research and 
surveys whilst maintaining con ﬁ dentiality on the 
data collected and, subject to written laws on patent 
rights.  
 PART II  
A
DMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE INSTITUTE
6. (1) The administration, management and control of 
the affairs of the Institute shall be vested in the Board of 
Governors of the Institute (in this Act referred to as the 
“Board”) which shall consist of-  
 ( a) the following ex- ofﬁ cio members, namely: -  
Constitution 
of the Board 
of Governors 
of the 
Institute  

<!-- page 8 -->

7National Building Research Institute
10
15
20
25
5
 (i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the 
Minister assigned the subject of Disaster 
Management who shall be the Chairperson 
of the Board;  
 (ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the 
Minister assigned the subject of Finance 
or his representative not below the rank of 
Additional Secretary;  
 (iii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister 
assigned the subject of Local Authorities 
or his representative not below the rank of 
Additional Secretary; 
   (iv) the Director-General of the Disaster 
Management Center established under 
the Sri Lanka Disaster Management 
Act, No. 13 of 2005; and    
  ( b) the following members to be appointed by the 
Minister (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed 
members”):-  
 (i) one person having not less than five 
years experience in the ﬁ eld of disaster 
resilience and postgraduate quali ﬁ cations 
in one or more disciplines, namely 
engineering, geology,  environmental 
science, architecture or urban development 
nominated by the Secretary to the Ministry 
of the Minister assigned the subject of 
Housing;  
 (ii) one academic nominated by the University 
Grants Commission established under 
the Universities Act, No.16 of 1978 
from among academics holding  
postgraduate qualiﬁ cations in one or more 
30

<!-- page 9 -->

National Building Research Institute8
5
10
15
20
25
30
disciplines, namely engineering, geology, 
environmental science, architecture or 
urban development;    and
 (iii) one professional with expertise in 
the local geotechnical engineering or  
building construction industry holding 
postgraduate qualiﬁ cations in one or more 
disciplines, namely engineering, geology, 
environmental science, architecture or 
urban development  nominated by the 
Chamber of Construction Industry of 
Sri Lanka incorporated under the Chamber 
of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019.          
 (2) The Director-General of the Institute appointed under 
section 16 of this Act shall be the Secretary to the Board and 
shall not to be entitled to vote at any meeting of the Board.   
(3) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering the 
affairs of the Institute, exercise and discharge the powers 
and functions conferred on, assigned to or imposed on the 
Institute by this Act.  
 7. A person shall be disqualiﬁ ed from being appointed as 
a member or continuing as a member of the Board, if -  
 ( a)  he is or becomes, a member of Parliament, a member 
of any Provincial Council or a member of a Local 
Authority;  
 ( b) he is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;  
 ( c) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any 
other country, found or declared to be of unsound 
mind;   
Disqualiﬁ cations  
from being a             
member of the        
Board  

<!-- page 10 -->

9National Building Research Institute
5
10
15
20
25
 ( d) he is an undischarged insolvent or bankrupt; having 
been declared insolvent or bankrupt under any law 
in Sri Lanka or in any other country;     
 ( e) he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment 
imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or in any other 
country;  
 ( f) he holds or enjoys any right or bene ﬁ t under any 
contract made by, or on behalf of the Institute; or  
 ( g) he has any ﬁ nancial or other interests as is likely 
to affect the discharge by him of his functions as a 
member of the Board.  
8. Every appointed member of the Board shall, unless 
he vacates of ﬁ ce earlier by death, resignation or removal, 
hold of ﬁ ce for a term of three years from the date of his 
appointment.  
9. (1) Any appointed member may resign of ﬁ ce by letter 
addressed to the Minister.                   
(2) The Minister shall remove from of ﬁ ce any appointed 
member by a written communication addressed to him -  
 ( a) if he becomes subject to any disquali ﬁ cation as 
speciﬁ ed in section 7;  
 ( b) if in the opinion of the Minister, he becomes 
permanently incapable of performing his duties due 
to any physical disability or unsoundness of mind; 
or  
 ( c) if he does any act which, in the opinion of the 
Minister is likely to bring the Institute into disrepute.               
Vacation of 
ofﬁ ce of the 
appointed 
members  
Term of ofﬁ ce 
of members of 
the Board   

<!-- page 11 -->

National Building Research Institute10
5
10
15
20
30
(3)  Any appointed member to whom a written 
communication is addressed under subsection (2), shall 
vacate his ofﬁ ce with effect from the date speci ﬁ ed in such 
communication.                
(4) Any appointed member who has been removed from 
ofﬁ ce shall not be eligible for reappointment as a member 
of the Board or to serve the Institute in any other capacity.                
(5) Upon the vacation of ofﬁ ce by any appointed member, 
the Minister may appoint any suitable person having the 
qualiﬁ cations set out in section 6 of this Act to ﬁ ll such 
vacancy and such person shall hold of ﬁ ce for the unexpired 
period of the term of ofﬁ ce of the appointed member whom 
he succeeds.                
(6) Where any appointed member is temporarily unable to 
perform the duties of his ofﬁ ce due to ill health, absence from 
Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint any 
suitable person having the qualiﬁ cations set out in section 6 
of this Act to act in place of such member.  
10. The members of the Board shall be paid such 
remuneration or allowance at such rates as may be determined 
by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister assigned 
the subject of Finance.  
11. (1) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be four.                 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the procedure for 
the transaction of business at meetings of the Board shall be 
determined by the Board.                  
(3)  Any question arising at any meeting of the Board shall 
be determined by   a majority of the members present and in 
the case of an equality of votes, the Chairperson shall have a 
second or casting vote.                  
(4)  The Board may act notwithstanding a vacancy in the 
Board so long as the number of members of the Board is 
sufﬁ cient to constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Board.  
Remuneration 
of  the 
members of 
the Board  
The quorum at 
the meetings 
of the 
Board  
25

<!-- page 12 -->

11National Building Research Institute
5
10
15
20
25
12. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a member of the 
Board or an ofﬁ cer not below the rank of a technical of ﬁ cer 
authorized in writing by the Board may, upon the request 
made by an owner or occupier of a land enter into such land.  
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), where 
a member of the Board or an ofﬁ cer not below the rank of a 
technical ofﬁ cer authorized in writing by the Board satisﬁ es 
himself of the material facts before such member or ofﬁ cer that 
there exists an imminent risk of a landslide, it shall be lawful 
for such member or ofﬁ cer to enter into a land with a police 
ofﬁ cer with the consent of the owner or occupier of such land.   
(3) The member or of ﬁ cer may enter upon any land, 
with or without necessary vehicles, equipments or tools and 
inspect the land and take any sample of soil or carry out any 
assessment or test therein.    
(4) The owner or occupier of such land shall afford all 
reasonable assistance to the member or ofﬁ cer referred to in 
subsection (1). 
 13. (1) The Board may, subject to such conditions as 
may be speciﬁ ed in writing, delegate to the Chairperson of 
the Board,  the Director-General, the Technical Advisory 
Committee,  or  any person referred to in paragraph ( g) of 
section 4  any of its powers other than the powers speciﬁ ed in 
paragraphs  (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k) and (m) of section 4, as the 
case may be, and the Chairperson, the Director-General, the 
Technical Advisory Committee,  or  any person referred to in 
paragraph (g) of section 4 shall exercise such powers  subject 
to any general or special directions issued by the Board.               
(2) Notwithstanding any delegation made under subsection 
(1), the Board may exercise any such power so delegated.  30
Delegation of 
powers of the 
Board  
Power of the 
 Board to enter  
and inspect 
any  land  

<!-- page 13 -->

National Building Research Institute12
5
10
15
20
25
14. The Minister may, from time to time, issue such general 
or special directions to the Board relating to the exercise and 
performance of its powers and functions under this Act and it 
shall be the duty of the Board to comply with such directions.
   15. The seal of the Institute -  
 ( a) shall be in the custody of such person as the Board 
may, from time to time, determine;  
 ( b)   may be altered in such manner as may be 
determined by the Board; and  
 ( c)  shall not be afﬁ xed to any document or instrument 
except in the presence of two members of the 
Board, both of whom shall sign the document or 
instrument in token of their presence. 
 PART III  
S
TAFF OF THE INSTITUTE
 16. (1) The Minister shall, in consultation with the Board,  
appoint to the staff of the Institute, a Director-General 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Director-General”), from 
among persons who have achieved eminence in the ﬁ eld of 
Engineering, Science or Technology whose qualiﬁ cations and 
experience shall be prescribed by regulations.         
(2) The Director-General appointed under subsection (1) 
shall be the Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer of the Institute.         
(3) The emoluments of the Director General shall, in 
Consultation with the Minister assigned the Subject of ﬁ nance, 
be determined by the Board  in accordance with the applicable 
guidelines of the government.  
 (4) The Director-General shall, subject to the general 
direction of the Board, be responsible for the management of 
the affairs of the Institute, including the administration and 
management of the ofﬁ cers and employees of the Institute.       
Seal of the 
Institute
Board to 
exercise its 
powers and 
perform its 
functions 
under the 
directions of 
the Minister
30
Director-
General of the 
Institute

<!-- page 14 -->

National Building Research Institute 13
 (5) ( a) The person who holds the of ﬁ ce of the Director-
General shall, unless such person vacates such ofﬁ ce earlier 
by death, resignation or removal, hold such of ﬁ ce until the 
age of retirement. The age of retirement shall be determined 
by the Board in accordance with applicable guidelines of the 
government.    
 ( b) The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove the 
Director-General from ofﬁ ce.       
 (6) The office of the Director-General shall become 
vacant upon the death, removal or retirement  from of ﬁ ce 
under subsection (5) or resignation by letter addressed to the 
Minister.       
 (7) Where any vacancy occurs in the of ﬁ ce of the Director-
General, the Minister shall appoint an ofﬁ cer of the Institute 
having qualiﬁ cations and experience speciﬁ ed in subsection 
(1) to exercise and perform the powers and functions of the 
ofﬁ ce of the Director-General until an appointment is made 
under subsection (1) to ﬁ ll such vacancy. 
   
 17. The Director-General may whenever he considers 
necessary to do so with the approval of the Board, delegate 
to any ofﬁ cer of the Institute, any power or function assigned 
to him by this Act and such ofﬁ cer shall exercise and perform 
such power or function, subject to the direction and control 
of the Director-General:  
 Provided that, no power or function delegated under 
subsection (1) of section 13 shall be delegated under this 
section.  
   
 18. (1) The Board may appoint Directors of the Institute, to 
be in charge of separate divisions of the Institute. The terms 
and conditions of such employment shall be determined by 
the Board.             
Director- 
General may  
delegate his 
powers or  
functions 
Directors of 
the Institute  
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 15 -->

14 National Building Research Institute
 (2) The Directors appointed under subsection (1) shall 
exercise and discharge their powers and functions assigned 
from time to time by the Director-General. 
   
 19.  (1) The Board may appoint such of ﬁ cers and other 
employees as may be necessary for the efﬁ cient exercise and 
discharge of the powers and functions of the Institute.             
  (2) The terms and conditions of employment, including 
remuneration, the eligibility criteria and the schemes of 
recruitment of the of ﬁ cers and employees referred to in 
subsection (1) shall be determined by the Board in keeping 
with related guidelines of the Government.             
 (3) The Board shall not however appoint any person who 
has been dismissed from any previous position held by such 
person in the public or private sector as an of ﬁ cer or an 
employee of the Institute. 
   
 20. (1) At the request of the Institute, any of ﬁ cer in the 
public service may, with the consent of that of ﬁ cer, and the 
Public Service Commission established under the Constitution 
be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute for such 
period as may be determined by the Institute or with like 
consent be permanently appointed to the staff of the Institute.            
 (2) Where any of ﬁ cer in the public service temporarily 
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of 
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport 
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall mutatis mutandis,  
apply to and in relation to such ofﬁ cer.          
 (3) Where any of ﬁ cer in the public service is permanently 
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of 
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport 
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, ' mutatis mutandis, 
apply to and in relation to such ofﬁ cer.             
Appointment 
of ofﬁ cers and 
employees 
Appointment 
of  public  
ofﬁ cers to the 
staff of  the  
Institute 
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 16 -->

National Building Research Institute 15
 (4) Where the Institute employs any of ﬁ cer in the public 
service who has entered into a contract with the Government 
by which he has agreed to serve the Government for a speciﬁ ed 
period, any period of service to the Institute by such of ﬁ cer 
shall be regarded as service to the Government for the purpose 
of discharging the obligations of such contract. 
   
 PART  IV  
F
INANCE
 21. (1) The Institute shall have its own Fund. There shall 
be credited to the Fund of the Institute -  
 ( a) all sums of money as may be received by the 
Institute in the exercise and discharge of its powers 
and functions; and  
 ( b) all sums of money as may be received by the 
Institute by way of loans, donations, gifts or grants 
from any sources whether in or outside Sri Lanka 
in terms of paragraph (i) of section 4.               
 (2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Institute all 
such sums of money required to defray expenditure incurred 
by the Institute in the exercise and discharge of its powers 
and functions under this Act. 
   
 22. (1) The ﬁ nancial year of the Institute shall be the 
calendar year.          
 (2) The Institute shall cause proper books of accounts to 
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities 
and all other ﬁ nancial transactions of the Institute.              
Fund of the 
Institute  
Financial year 
and the audit 
of accounts  
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 17 -->

16 National Building Research Institute
 (3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating 
to the auditing of accounts of corporations shall apply in 
relation to the audit of accounts of the Institute. 
 23. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 
1971, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of the 
ﬁ nancial control and accounts of the Institute. 
  PART V  
G
ENERAL PROVISIONS
 24. (1) The Landslide Risk Assessment Report or the 
Geotechnical Stability Assessment Report shall be issued by 
the Institute on the request made by any person.         
 (2) Where any relevant authority requests the Institute to 
monitor compliance of the report issued under subsection 
(1), the Institute shall monitor and report to such relevant 
authority the compliance of such report and issue a Certiﬁ cate 
of Conformity. 
  
 25. (1) Where any land or any servitude over a land is 
required by the Institute for the purpose of construction or 
maintenance of an of ﬁ ce of the Institute established under 
this Act,  such purpose shall, for the purpose of the Land 
Acquisition Act (Chapter 460), be deemed to be a public 
purpose and such land or servitude may be acquired under 
the Land Acquisition Act  by the Government for the Institute 
and the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act shall apply to 
and in relation to such acquisition.            
 (2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of such land or 
servitude under the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) for 
the Institute shall be paid out of the Fund of the Institute.              
Issuing of the 
Landslides 
Risk 
Assessment 
Report etc.
Application 
of Part II of 
the Finance 
Act, No. 38 of 
1971 
Acquisition 
of  land or a 
servitude over 
a land for the 
Institute under 
the Land 
Acquisition 
Act 
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 18 -->

National Building Research Institute 17
 (3) Where any state land is required for the purpose of the 
Institute, such purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for 
which a special grant or lease of such property may be made 
under section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordinance (Chapter 454) 
and, accordingly, the provisions of that Ordinance shall apply 
to the special grant or lease of that property. 
   
 26.  (1) The Director-General shall, within six months of 
the end of each calendar year, transmit an annual report giving 
full account of the activities of the Institute during that year 
to the Minister.        
 (2) The Minister shall cause copies of the annual report to 
be placed in Parliament within three months from the date of 
such report receipt.       
 (3) The Minister may, from time to time, specify the 
matters which need to or details that to be included in the 
annual report.   
 
 27. All members of the Board, of ﬁ cers and employees 
of the Institute shall be deemed to be public officers 
within the meaning and for the purpose of the Penal Code                         
(Chapter 19). 
   
 28. The Institute shall be deemed to be a Scheduled 
Institution within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption 
Act, No. 9 of 2023 and the provisions of that Act shall be 
construed accordingly. 
   
 29. (1) All expenses incurred by the Institute in any suit 
brought by or against it before any court, shall be paid out of 
the Fund of the Institute and only costs paid to or recovered 
by the Institute in any such suit, shall be credited to the Fund 
of the Institute.             
Annual report 
All members 
of the Board  
etc. deemed 
to be public 
ofﬁ cers 
Institute 
deemed to be 
a Scheduled 
Institution 
Expenses to 
be paid out of 
the Fund of 
the Institute  
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 19 -->

18 National Building Research Institute
  (2) Any expenses incurred by a member of the Board, the 
Director-General, a Director, any ofﬁ cer or other employee of 
the Institute, in any suit or prosecution brought by or against 
such person before any court in respect of any act which is 
done or purported to be done by such person under this Act or 
on the direction of the Minister or the Board, as the case may 
be, shall, if  court holds that such act was done in good faith, 
be paid out of the Fund of the Institute, unless such expenses 
are recovered by him in such suit or prosecution. 
   
 30.  Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with 
any provision of this Act commits an offence and shall on 
conviction before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment of 
either description for a term not exceeding two years or to a 
ﬁ ne not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to both 
such imprisonment and ﬁ ne. 
   
 31.  (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose 
of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and provisions 
of this Act or in respect of any matter which is required by 
this Act to be prescribed.               
 (2) Every regulation made by the Minister under subsection 
(1), shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into 
operation on the date of such publication or on such later date 
as may be speciﬁ ed in the regulation.               
 (3) Every regulation made by the Minister under subsection 
(1) shall, within three months from the date of the publication 
in the Gazette, be brought before Parliament for approval.  
Any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to 
be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval but without 
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.               
Contravention 
 of the 
 provisions of 
 this Act to be 
an  offence 
Regulations                     
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 20 -->

National Building Research Institute 19
 (4) Noti ﬁ cation of the date on which any regulation shall 
be deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.  
 32. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires –
   “bank” means, any bank licensed under the 
provisions of the Banking Act, No. 30 
of 1988;  
“buildings” include a structure under 
construction, partly constructed, or fully 
constructed as a house, an apartment 
or a condominium property for human 
occupation or evacuation center, or a 
house for resettlement used in disaster 
management that is in a state of either 
occupied or vacant or  a school, an 
educational institution, a hotel, an 
office, a hall,  a place of worship, a 
shop, a shopping complex, a factory or 
a warehouse of commercial interest or 
any other similar place where general 
public may gather;       
“early warning” means, the process to 
generate and disseminate timely and 
meaningful warning information to 
enable individuals, and  communities 
threatened by a hazard to prepare and to 
act appropriately and in suf ﬁ cient time 
to reduce the possibility of harm or loss;  
“ﬁ nance institute” means, an institute licensed 
under the provisions of the Finance 
Business Act, No. 42 of 2011;
Interpretation  
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 21 -->

20 National Building Research Institute
   “Geotechnical instability” means, the instability 
caused by subsoils that as a result of 
the circumstances of its composition or 
a change in environmental conditions 
has the potential to expand, collapse, 
disperse or undergo excessive settlement 
under relatively low stress conditions 
and cause failure of buildings and 
structures built on it;  
“Geotechnical Stability Assessment  Report” 
means, a document regarding  
geotechnical stability concerns, issues 
in respect of any  construction or 
development activity involving deep 
excavation, underground excavation, 
ground improvement work, retaining 
structures, or substructure construction 
work which may adversely affect the 
subject site, adjoining properties and 
the proposed development, subject to 
geotechnical assessment on ground 
slope angle, geological and geotechnical 
characteristics, geological formation, 
characteristics of rock discontinuities, 
behaviour of subsurface water, potential 
for surface water stagnation, and effect 
of dewatering and includes necessary 
conditions, guidelines, technical advice 
and mitigation measures as may be 
appropriate;  
“hazard zonation map” means, a map that is 
prepared identifying the area prone 
to hazards, indicating zones having 
different levels of susceptibilities and 
may in addition contain information 
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 22 -->

National Building Research Institute 21
related to the particular hazards such 
as sketches of evacuation routes and 
shelters, evaluation of disaster possibility 
and frequency, warning and evacuation 
systems, distribution of settlements, 
and other basic information related to 
disaster;  
“landslide” means, any type of mass movement 
including land subsidence created or to 
be created due to human activities or 
natural causes;  
“landslide danger zone” means, an exclusion 
zone declared by the Institute for a 
specific period of time to prevent 
activities taking place therein, including 
human occupation that may endanger 
the lives of persons or cause injury and 
property damage in a particular area 
subject to an imminent danger of a 
landslide disaster; 
   “Landslide Risk Assessment Report” means, 
a document issued in respect of any  
construction or development activity in 
an area 
prone to landslides, and includes 
necessary guidelines, technical advice 
and mitigation measures as may be 
appropriate;    
“Minister” means the Minister to whom this Act 
is assigned under Article 44 or 45 of the 
Constitution; and  
“relevant authorities” includes every ministry, 
department, provincial council, 
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 23 -->

22 National Building Research Institute
Savings 
provincial ministry and department, 
and local authority and project approving 
agencies empowered to approve project 
proposals for implementation. 
  33. (1) The National Building Research Organisation 
established pursuant to the Decision of the Cabinet of 
Ministers (Cabinet Decision No. 07/0435/343/002 of           
April 4, 2007) shall cease to operate with effect from the date 
of commencement of this Act.          
 (2) ( a) All ofﬁ cers and employees of the National Building 
Research Organisation who were in employment in such 
Organisation on the day immediately preceding the date of 
commencement of this Act, and who have not reached their 
respective ages of retirement as at the date of commencement 
of this Act, shall be offered employment with effect from the 
date of commencement of this Act in the Institute, on terms 
and conditions not less favorable to the terms and conditions 
of employment applicable to them on the day immediately 
preceding the date of commencement of this Act;   
 ( b) Any ofﬁ cer and employee referred to in paragraph (a), 
who wishes to opt out of employment in the Institute, may do 
so within six months from the date on which he was offered 
employment in the Institute.   
 ( c) If any such officer or employee as referred to in 
paragraph ( b) exercises his option not to accept the offer, 
he shall be paid compensation under a voluntary retirement 
scheme to be implemented in that behalf, with the approval of 
the Minister and the Minister assigned the subject of Finance. 
 
 34. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.     
Sinhala text 
to  prevail 
in  case of        
inconsistency  
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 24 -->

National Building Research Institute 23
Department of Government Printing