

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 770
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 760
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"014 – 2017 wfm%a,a ui 07 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'04'07
No. 2,014 –  fRiday ,  aPRil  07, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th april, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th april, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
757-B 81158- 5,403(04/2017)
N. B.– Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,013 of 31.03.2017 was not published.
Note.–   (i) Economic Service charge (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 24, 2017. 
 (ii) foreign Exchange Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of March 24, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
758
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
759
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
760
Posts – vacant
amendment Notice of calling applications
SRI  LANkA  POLICE
Sub Inspector of Police, Police Constable, Woman Police Constable and 
Police Constable Driver - Special Task force
laSt date for acceptance of the application for post vacant, Notice Nos. 460/1, 460/2, 460/3 and 460/4 published under 
the Part i Section ii(a) of Gazette No. 2006 dated 09.02.2017 has been extended up to 15.04.2017.
 c. d. Wickramaratne, 
 for inspector General of Police. 
Police Headquarters, 
colombo 01,
24th March, 2017.
04-218
–––––––––––––––––––––––
by ThE ORDER Of PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
ministry of Justice
REcRuitMENt  to  tHE  PoSt  of  aSSiStaNt  StatE  couNSEl  (PRoBatioN)  of  tHE  attoRNEy 
GENERal'S  dEPaRtMENt 
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who have fulfilled qualifications mentioned below to fill thirty (30) 
vacancies for the Post of assistant State counsel (Probation) of the attorney General's department. 
01. Method of Recruitment. - Candidates who have fulfilled qualifications mentioned in the notification are 
subjected to a structured interview conducted by an interview board approved by the Public Service commission and 
candidates will be recruited among those who obtain 50 marks or above on the basis of the merit order of their marks 
according to the existing number of vacancies. the structured interview will be held in accordance with the marking 
scheme (indicated under No. 05) approved by the Public Service commission. 
02. Required Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational/Vocational Qualifications.- attorney-at-law of the Supreme court of Sri lanka.
 (ii) Physical Qualifications.- Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to perform duties of the 
post in any part of Sri lanka. 
 (iii) Other :
 * Should be a citizen of Sri lanka,
 * Should be of excellent character,
 * Should not have been convicted for any criminal charge under the laws of Sri lanka,
 * Should be qualified in all respects for the recruitment to this post as at the closing date of applications.
 (iv) Age Limit.- candidates should not be less than 22 years and not more than 35 years as at the closing date 
of applications. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
761
03. Conditions of employment and Conditions of Service.-  this post is a temporary post and not entitled to 
acquire a permanent appointment or privileges entitled to permanent officers. 
04. Post of assistant State counsel (Probation) is entitled to a monthly allowance of Rs. 26,000 and other 
Government approved allowances. 
05. the structured interview will be conducted based on the following marking scheme : 
Fact Maximum Marks Description Marks
01. additional 
Educational 
Qualifications
20 marks (i) Master degree in laws (llM) of a Government 
Recognized institute/university
(ii) Post Graduate Diploma in Laws (of a relevant field) 
of a Government Recognized institute/university
(iii) Bachelor's degree in laws (llB) of a Government 
Recognized institute/university (1st class Pass)
(iv) Bachelor's degree in laws (llB) of a Government 
Recognized institute/university (2nd class upper 
division Pass)
(v) Bachelor's degree in laws (llB) of a government 
recognized institute/university (2nd class lower 
division Pass)
(vi) first class Honours pass at the final Examination of 
Sri lanka law college
(vii) Second class Honours pass at the final Examination 
of Sri lanka law college
a Government Recognized university means a university 
or an institute recognized by incorporate council of 
Legal Education. (All the aforesaid qualifications 
are subject to maximum 20 marks)
* The aforesaid educational qualifications should be 
proved by certificates
10 marks
08 marks
07 marks
06 marks
05 marks
07 marks
06 marks
02. Professional 
Experience as an 
attorney-at-law
20 marks (i) Handling of cases at courts (02 marks for each year)
(ii) Skills demonstrated by working as a registered 
attorney-at-law of state or recognized institution
(Certificates should be produced for the aforesaid skills)
Note.- A certificate obtained from a judge on professional 
competence and two character certificates obtained 
from two attorneys-at-law, who have completed 
not less than 20 years of practice, shoudl be 
forwarded. Character certificates issued by legal 
officers of Attorney General's Department will not 
be entertained. 
10 marks
10 marks

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
762
Fact Maximum Marks Description Marks
03. Skills demonstrated 
at the interview
50 marks (i) communication skills
(ii) impromptu speech skills
(iii) Skill of successful appearance before the council
(iv) Good communication of language
12.5 marks
12.5 marks
12.5 marks
12.5 marks
04. Special 
competencies
10 marks (i) Personality 
(ii) leadership qualities
05 marks
05 marks
06. Identity of candidates.- 
candidates who have forwarded completed applications in every aspect will only be called for the structured 
interview. 
The originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should be submitted at the interview. 
Following identification papers will be accepted at the interview to establish the identity of candidates :-
 (a) National identity card issued by the commissioner General of Registration of Persons,
 (b) Valid Passport. 
07. Method of Application : 
 (i) applications may be obtained from the administration Branch of the attorney General's department, 
colombo 12 and should be sent by Registered cover to the address of attorney General, attorney 
General's department, P. o. Box 502, colombo 12, to be received on or before 09.05.2017. 
applications received after the due date will be rejected. 
 (ii) the top left hand corner of the envelope should carry the words "application for the Post of assistant 
State counsel (Probation)".
08. Furnishing False Particulars.- if any of particulars mentioned in the application, sent by you, found to be 
false or erroneous before the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. 
09. The Public Service Commission reserves the right either to fill or not to fill the vacancies in the post. 
10. in case of any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English text in the Gazette notification, Sinhala text 
shall prevail. 
By the order of the Public Service commission.
 
Jayantha Jayasuriya, P. c.,
 attorney General.
Supreme court complex,
attorney General's department, 
colombo 12, 
on this 22nd day of March, 2017.
04-149

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
763
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION 
Recruitment to the Executive Category of Grade 
III (Limited) Post of Assistant Registrar of 
Companies in the Department of Registrar of 
Companies under the ministry of Industry and 
Commerce
aPPlicatioNS are invited from persons who have 
following qualifications mentioned under No. 2, for full fill 
01 (one) vacancy in Executive category of Grade iii Post 
of assistant Registrar of companies in the department of 
Registrar of companies. 
1. Recruitment Procedure.- applicants, who got highest 
marks on the results of structured interview, held by the 
interview board, out of the applicants who full filled the 
qualifications, mentioned in the notification, will be 
recruited for the number of one (01) vacancy by the Public 
Service commission. 
2. Qualifications : 
 2.1 Educational and Professional Qualifications :
 (i) Being an attorney-at-law or being a 
company inspector in the department of 
Registrar of companies ; 
  and
 (ii) if he/she is an attorney-at-law, should 
have 5 years satisfactory service at the 
department of Registrar of companies.
  if he/she is a Graduate company inspector, 
should have 10 years satisfactory service at 
the department of Registrar of companies. 
 2.2 Physical Fitness.- Every candidate shall 
have sufficient physical and mental fitness to 
serve in any part of Sri lanka or abroad and 
discharge the duties of the post. 
 2.3 Other :
 (i) Must be a citizen of Sri lanka,
 (ii) Must have excellent moral character, 
 (iii) All qualifications, needed to recruit to this 
post, should have been fulfilled as at the 
closing date of applications. 
3. Conditions of employment and service conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. 
Should contribute to the Widows/Widowers 
and orphans Pension Scheme.
 (ii) appointment will be subjected to an acting 
period of one (01) year. as mentioned in 
the Scheme of recruitment, 1st Efficiency 
Bar examination should be fulfilled within 
03 years from the appointment to Executive 
category of Grade iii Post of assistant 
Registrar of companies. 
 (iii) in terms of Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 and circulars, incidental thereto, 
proficiency in other official language, in 
excess to the language, recruited to the 
service, must be obtained, within 05 years 
from the appointment and the officers who 
recruited by the language other than official 
language should obtain prescribed official 
language proficiency within the period of 
probation. 
 (iv) this appointment is subjected to procedural 
rules of Public Service commissions, the 
Establishment code of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, financial 
Regulations and departmental other orders. 
4. Salary Scale.- Salary Scale of Rs. 47,615 - 10x1,335 
8x1,630 - 17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895 is entitled for this post 
according to the Sl-1-2016 of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016.
5. Structured Interview : 
 (i) Structured interview will be conducted by 
the interview Board appointed by the Public 
Service commission. 
 (ii) following marking scheme will be based for 
the structured interview. 
Scoring Areas Maximum 
Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 30
2. Additional Professional Qualifications 10
3. Proficiency in English 25
4. additional Experience 30
5. Skills in the interview 05
100
6. Method of Application : 
 (i) application should comply with the specimen 
application and if not which will be rejected 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
764
without notice. applicant should prepare 
their application, in their own handwriting, in 
both sides of a4 size paper with No. 01 to 06 
appearing in 1st page and rest in next pages. a 
photocopy of the application is keeping with 
you will be useful. 
 (ii) applications should be sent under registered 
cover to reach the Secretary, Ministry of 
industry and commerce, Galle Road, colombo 
03 on or before 21.04.2017. applications, 
received after that date will be rejected. the 
envelope enclosing the application should 
be marked "application for the "Executive 
category of Grade iii Post of assistant 
Registrar of companies in the department of 
Registrar of companies (limited)" on the top 
left hand corner. 
 (iii) applications, without conformity with the 
specimen application form, will be rejected. 
inquiries about applications lost or delayed 
will not be accepted. 
 (iv) All the applicants, deemed as qualified, who 
have submitted application on due dates, will 
be called for the interview by the Secretary of 
the Ministry of industry and commerce. Even 
though it is not considered that the applicant is 
fulfilled the required qualifications. 
7. Identity of the candidate. - following identity cards 
will be accepted to certify the identity of his/her, in the 
interview : 
 (i) identity card issued by the commissioner of 
Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) a  valid passport. 
8. Furnishing false information.- y our candidature 
will be repealed, if any information mentioned in the 
application, being detected as incorrect or false, before 
the recruitment. if such information being detected after 
the recruitment, action will be taken to demise from the 
service, subject to the procedure relevant thereto. 
9. if there is any matter not mentioned in this notice, the 
final decision of such matter will be taken by the Public 
Service commission. Public Service commission reserves 
the right to filling, non-filling or partly fills the vacancies. 
10. in the event of any inconsistence between the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
By order of the Public Service commission, 
 
chinthaka s. Lokuhetti, 
 Secretary,
 Ministry of industry and commerce.
07th april, 2017.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN 
recruitment to the executive category of grade iii 
(Limited) Post of assistant registrar of comPanies in 
the dePartment of registrar of comPanies under the 
ministry of industry and commerce
01.   1.1 Name with initials, initials at the end :––––––––.
   1.2 full Name (English capital letters) :–––––––––.
   1.3 full Name (Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––.
02.   2.1 Permanent address (English capital letters) :
    –––––––––.
   2.2 Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––.
   2.3 telephone Number :–––––––––.
03.   3.1 date of Birth : 
    y ear :––––––. Month :––––––. date :––––––.
   3.2 age as at 21.04.2017 :
    y ears :––––––. Months :––––––. days :––––––.
04.   4.1 Sex : Write the relevant number in the box :
    Male : 0
    female : 1
   4.2 Whether married/unmarried :–––––––––.
05.   5.1 Whether a Sri lankan citizen :–––––––––.
    (Please mention by decent or Registration)
   5.2 Nationality :–––––––––.
   5.3 National identity card Number :–––––––––.
06. Mention the language you sat for the interview/
examination for the post of ................. service/class as 
at 21.04.2017 :–––––––––.
07. 7.1 Have you complete the qualifications mentioned 
in paragraph 02 of the Gazette ? :–––––––––.
 7.2 Professional qualification and experience : 
  Either being an attorney-at-law or being a 
company inspector in the paragraph 2.1 of the 
Gazette, what is your qualification ? :––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
765
 7.3 Professional qualification : 
  date of sworn at Supreme court as attorney-at-law :–––––––––.
  Registration Number :–––––––––.
 7.4 Professional experience as at 21.04.2017 :  y ears :–––––––––. Months :–––––––––. days :–––––––––.
 7.5 Service/grade which qualify for the application :
  Existing post :–––––––––.
  Grade :–––––––––.
  class/category :–––––––––.
  appointment date :–––––––––.
  Permanent date :–––––––––.
  if the service periods are relevant for application, give particulars in following table : 
Name of Service/Grade Date of appointment
 7.6 Period of satisfactory service as at 21.04.2017 of approved service under paragraph 02 of the Gazette :
 7.7 Educational Qualifications (if necessary) : 
Name of the 
Degree and 
Year
University/
Institute
Registration 
Number
Internal/external Subjects Class 
of the 
pass
effective date 
of the degree
08.   8.1 Whether you have been convicted in a court :–––––––––.
   8.2 if yes, details :–––––––––.
09. Certificate of Applicant : 
i hereby declare that i have not been penalized for any disciplinary action (except warnings) and that the 
satisfactory service in Department of Registrar of Companies is (five/ten) as at 21.04.2017 according to the paragraph 
2.1(ii) of the Gazette and all increments have been earned (except increments imposed by the service or department 
examinations) within previous five/ten years before 21.04.2017.
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate and i am suitable for 
the interview as per the Gazette notice. i agree that if any particulars contained therein are found to be false and incorrect, 
before or after the interview i'm liable to disqualify and dismissal. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––.
10. Certificate of the Department Head (According to personal file) : 
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................... who forward this application, have not been penalized 
for any disciplinary action (except warnings) and that the satisfactory service in department of Registrar of companies 
is ..................... years (five/ten) as at 21.04.2017 according to the paragraph 2.1(ii) of the Gazette and all increments have 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
766
been earned (except increments imposed by the service 
or Department examinations) within previous five/ten 
years before 21.04.2017 and that the qualifications have 
been completed for the interview according to the Gazette 
notice and placed his/her signature to the application in my 
presence on ....................
 –––––––––––––––––, 
 Signature of department 
 Head and common Seal.
Name :–––––––––.
Position :–––––––––.
date :–––––––––.
04-207
–––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of mETEOROLOGy
filling the vacancies in the Post of meteorological 
helper (Grade III)
aPPlicatioNS are hereby called from Sri lankan 
citizens to fill the vacancies in the post of Meteorological 
Helper (Grade iii) in the Meteorological department. 
02. Nature of the Post : 
 1. Permanent. you are subjected to the decisions 
taken by the Government in the future with 
regard to the pension system. you are recruited 
to the Post of Meteorological Helper (Grade iii). 
 2. as per the Public administration circular 
03/2016 the monthly salary scale for this post is 
Rs. 24,250 -10x250 -10x270 - 10x300 - 12x330 
- Rs. 36,410 (Pl-1-2016). (as per the provisions 
in Schedule II of PA Circular 06/2006) first 
efficiency bar examination should be passed 
before Rs. 14,526.
 3. Duties assigned : 
 (i) Cleaning of the head office and outside 
offices of the Meteorological Department 
and cleaning of the office premises and 
support the maintenance activities, cleaning 
of the equipment enclosure that is used 
for meteorological observations and 
maintaining it according to the standards. 
 (ii) cleaning of the meteorological equipment/
supporting the maintenance activities and 
supporting the meteorological observations 
in the head office and outside offices of the 
Meteorological department. 
 (iii) t aking steps to protect the equipment in 
regional offices at night. 
 4. duty will be on shifts and duties should be 
performed at night shifts also. 
03. Qualifications.- Basic Qualifications. 
The applicant must :
 1. Be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 2. Be of an excellent moral character.
 3. Be 18 years as at 08.05.2017 and the maximum 
age limit is 45. (this maximum age limit does 
not apply for the applicants who are confirmed 
in a permanent post in the Public Service and 
Provincial Public Service).
 4. Having passed G. c. E. (ordinary level) 
Examination in six subjects with two credit 
passes in not more than two sittings. 
  Physical Qualifications : 
 5. Each candidate should be mentally and 
physically sound to be served in any part of 
the Island. If proven unfit by the medical test 
conducted after the recruitment you will be 
disqualified for the post. 
 6. All the qualifications required to be recruited 
to the post should be fulfilled as at 08.05.2017.
04. the applications prepared in the form of the 
specimen appended to this should be sent to reach 'director 
General of Meteorology, department of Meteorology, No. 
383, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, colombo 07 before 4.15 p. 
m. on 08.05.2017 by Registered Post. the top left corner 
of the envelope containing the application should clearly 
bear the words "applications for recruitment for the Post 
of Meteorological Helper". applications received after 
this date will not be accepted under any circumstances and 
the applicants who are now in the Public Service should 
send their applications through the respective Head of 
department. 
05. Based on the information furnished by the applicants 
they will be called for a structured interview. Marking 
Scheme is mention below : 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
767
Fields for which the marks will be given Marks Maximum Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications
(Education qualifications in addition to the basic qualifications)
Maximum marks 40 40
(i) ordinary level
      * for each passes (six subjects including Maths, language, Science, English, 
art, technology) as follows :
          10 Subjects                         09 Subjects                         08 Subjects
              a-4                                       a-4                                      d-4
              B-3                                       B-3                                      c-3
              c-2                                       c-2                                      S-1
              S-1                                        S-1
24
 
(ii) advanced level
       * Marks for the one pass as mention below
         04 Subjects                          03 Subjects
               a-3                                        a-4
               B-2                                        B-3
               c-2                                        c-2
               S-1                                         S-1
12
40
(iii) Ability to use the official language in addition to the mother language 02
(iv) ability to English language (international language) 02
02. field experience relevant to the post
     * 4 marks for each year (maximum 5 years) 
20
03. Training and the courses that have been followed in a field related to the 
relevant post from a recognized institution (5 marks for each course)
       * Civil maintains, plumber, electrician technical certificates courses etc.
       * Computer certificates courses
25
04. competency shown in the interview
      * communication skill, personality, leadership, polite, understanding
15
Recruitments for the posts will be done using the merit list prepared based on the marks obtained in the structured 
interview. 
06. Language Proficiency.- according to the Pa circular 07/2007 and circulars incidental thereto the language 
proficiency in the relevant level should be acquired within a period of 5 years from the date he was appointed to the post 
failure to acquirer proficiency in a second language within a period of 5 years from the date of appointment will lead to 
the stoppage of salary increment until they acquire necessary qualifications. 
07. applicants should attach the copies of the following documents to their application. (originals should 
not 
be submitted) :
 (i) A clear copy of the Birth Certificate.
 (ii) a clear copy of the National identity card.
 (iii) Copies to prove the Certificates of Educational Qualifications and Training (if any).
 (iv) Copies of the Certificates of Service Experience (if there is any).
 (v) Certificate of the Grama Niladhari to certify your domicile and character.
 (vi) Two character certificates obtained after 08.11.2017.
08. applicant should be ready to submit the originals of the documents when he is called for the interview or at 
the request of the appointing authority at any time. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
768
09. The applications that do not meet the requirements of this notice will be rejected without any notification. 
10. in case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, tamil and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
Note.- applicants called for this interview will not be paid travelling expenses or any other expenses. 
 LaLith chandraPaLa, 
 director General of Meteorology,
 department of Meteorology. 
Bauddaloka Mawatha, 
colombo 07,
24th March, 2017. 
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM 
aPPLication for recruitment to the Post of ............................ in the meteoroLogicaL dePartment
01. Name with initials (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. Names denoted by initials (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
03. last Name with initials (in English Block letters) :––––––––––––.
 (ex. : Sil Va a. B. c. )
04. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
05. district of permanent domicile (English) :––––––––––––.
06. the address to which the letter calling for the interview should be sent (in English) :––––––––––––.
07. date of Birth  :––––––––––––.
08. age as at 08.05.2017 :––––––––––––.
09.  Male/female :––––––––––––.
10. Nid Number : 
11. civil Status :––––––––––––.
12. t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
12. Educational Qualifications : 
 G. c. E. (o/l) :
   (i) first sitting : 
    y ear :––––––––––––.  Examination No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
   (ii) Second sitting : 
    y ear :––––––––––––.  Examination No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
769
13. details about the experience : 
Serial No. Institution Copies of the documents to certify the experience
1 attached/not attached
2 attached/not attached
3 attached/not attached
4 attached/not attached
5 attached/not attached
 Number of copies attached :–––––––––––.
14. details about the training obtained : 
Serial 
No.
Training 
Obtained
Institution Duration Copies of the certificates to prove the training
1 attached/not attached
2 attached/not attached
3 attached/not attached
4 attached/not attached
5 attached/not attached
 Number of copies attached :–––––––––––.
15. Details about additional educational qualifications : 
Serial No. Qualification Copies of the certificates to prove qualifications
1 attached/not attached
2 attached/not attached
3 attached/not attached
4 attached/not attached
5 attached/not attached
 Number of copies attached :–––––––––––.
16. Certificate of the Applicant : 
i hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and correct. i know that i would 
be disqualified if the above statement made by me is proved to be false and would be dismissed from the service if proved 
as such after being appointed to the post. 
if i am selected for this post i am willing to serve in any service station where there are vacancies. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature.
date :–––––––––––.
17. Applicants who are in the Public/Provincial Public Service should fill the part mentioned below :
Recommendation of the Head of the Department with regard to the applicants from the Public Service : 
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who submits this application is serving in a post of 
.............................. in this Ministry/Department/Institution/Office with effect from ............................. and he/she is 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
770
mINISTRy Of LANDS 
Survey Department of Sri Lanka
REcRuitMENt to PRiMaRy SEMi SkillEd (Pl 02-2016) WHicH REMaiN VacaNt iN SuRVEy 
dEPaRtMENt of SRi laNka - SuRVEy fiEld aSSiStaNt 
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit to the post of primary semi skilled (PL 02-
2016) survey assistant which remains vacant in Survey department. 
 1.1  Post Grade
  (i) Survey field assistant Grade iii
 1.2 Nature of duties of posts : 
Post Main Functions
Survey field 
assistant
* Giving assistance to draw the sketch relevant to the survey.
* Preparation of survey lines as possible as to observe old boundaries, using survey field books 
and plans.
* Placing and opening of relevant land marks and pickets in area relevant to the Survey. 
* Giving Assistance to Survey duties relevant to finding out and placing of bench marks relevant 
to the Survey. 
* Giving assistance to maintenance relevant to the safety and storing of instruments, use in the 
field. 
* Setting out of G. P. S. instruments in survey points in field for surveys which are done, using 
of satellite technology including of theodolite, leveling instruments and new electronic total 
stations. 
* Giving assistance to all activities of placing of geo control points require for air photography.
* keeping of targets properly that require for determination of location and level of all stations 
which made in surveys and giving assistance to collect data. 
* Setting out of landmarks and bench marks using correct data in survey. 
* Setting out of landmarks relevant to blocking out of lands which basically done using the data 
in survey field books and tracing entries. 
* attending to any duty assigned by Surveyor General or his representative as applicable to 
surveying. 
* Supervision of works of other survey field assistants is assigned for those who hold the post of 
overseers in survey field assistant grade, in addition to the above duties. 
confirmed/not confirmed in the service and he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action during his period of 
service and the information furnished herewith is correct according to his personal file and he/she can/cannot be released 
from the current position if he/she got selected for the post he/she applied for. 
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 The name/designation/address of the person who certified.
 (Official seal should be affixed)
Signature and date :–––––––––––.
04-155
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
771
2. the number of appointments and the date of 
appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. 
The appointing authority has power to fill all or any number 
of vacancies. 
3. Salary.- in terms of Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 and dated 25.02.2016 monthly salary scale 
applicable for the iii, ii, i and special grade of Survey 
field assistants' Service is Rs. 25,250 -10x270 - 10x300 
-10x330 - 12x350 - Rs. 38,450 and the effective date of 
said salary will be 01.01.2020. Salaries will be paid from 
the effective date of the appointment in terms of provision 
in Schedule ii of above circular. 
4. This post is permanent. the Pension entitled to 
the officers appointed to the Grade III of Survey Field 
assistants' Service, by this examination will be determined 
in terms of the policy decision, on pension scheme taken 
by the government in future. this appointment is subject 
to 03 years probation period and selected candidates are 
prepared to serve in any part of the country and subject 
to general conditions applicable to appointment to the 
public service specified at the beginning of this Gazette 
notification. 
5. Qualifications : 
 5.1 Educational Qualifications :
 (a) Should have passed the G. c. E. ordinary 
level Examination in six (06) subjects 
with at least two credits passes in not more 
than two sittings.
 5.2 Professional Qualifications.- Should have 
obtained a skill at least in level two of 
National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) 
as determined by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission as appropriate for the 
post of survey field assistant. 
 5.3 Minimum skills : 
 (a) Giving assistance to identify survey fields. 
 (b) attending to safety and maintenance of 
survey instruments and equipments. 
 5.4 Physical fitness.- all candidates should have 
physically and mentally fit adequate to serve 
in any part of Sri lanka and to carry out duties 
in the post. 
 5.5 Other : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 (ii) the candidate should be of excellent 
moral character. 
 (iii) All the necessary qualifications for 
recruitment to the post should have been 
fulfilled in all respect as at the closing 
date of calling for application. 
 5.6 Age : 
 (a) the minimum age should be 18 years and 
maximum age should be 45 years as at the 
closing date of applicable. 
  (the maximum age limit is not applicable for 
those who hold a permanent post already in the 
Public Service).
06. Furnishing false information.- In filling these 
vacancies, if a candidate is found not to have necessary 
qualifications, his/her candidature can be cancelled. If any 
of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be 
false within his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully 
suppressed by material fact he/she will be liable to 
dismissal from the public service. 
7. Method of Recruitment .- Recruitment will be on a 
written examination. 
examination Procedure.- the examination will consists 
of written test consisting two subjects. this examination 
will be held in Sinhala tamil and English mediums. 
the medium applied for will not be allowed to change 
subsequently.
Maximum 
marks 
obtainable
Minimum 
percentage 
of marks 
required for 
a pass
Time
1. General 
knowledge
2. intelligence
100
100
40%
40%
02 hours
01 hour 
and 15 
minutes
 7.1 Syllabus : 
 (i) General knowledge : including the knowledge 
of environment of the candidate lives, political, 
social, cultural, religious and economical 
environment in Sri Lanka, scientific and 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
772
technological development, internationally 
important general facts are expected by this 
paper. 
 (ii) Intelligence Test : a question paper made in 
multiple choice method, consists of questions 
to judge the rationality, ability of thought and 
ability to take decision, of the candidate. 
8. Selection procedure.- after an interview held by an 
interview board appointed by Surveyor General only to 
ascertain whether the qualifications have been fulfilled by 
the candidates, recruitment will be made as survey field 
assistant in order of merits obtained by candidates in the 
written examination. 
One month field and theoretical training will be given 
to those who recruited as survey field assistants by the 
training institute of Survey department. 
9. Preparation and submission of applications : 
 (a) the application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself on a paper size 21x29 (a4) 
using both sides as per the specimen application 
appearing at the end of this notice. item No. 
01 to 06 should be on page 01, No. 07-09.2 on 
page 02, No. 10-14 on page 03 and No. 15-16.2 
should be on page 04.
 (b) candida tes who are already employed in public 
service should forward their applications 
through their heads of the departments before 
the closing date of application. 
 (c) applications should be in the language in which 
the candidates in eligible to sit the examination. 
 (d) applications which are not complying with 
the specimen form, examination fees have 
not been paid before the prescribed date, of 
improper filling, will be rejected without any 
notice. candidates should bear consequences 
of improper filling of applications. It would be 
useful to retain a photocopy of the application. 
It is responsibility of the candidate to find out 
whether the completed application complies 
with the application specified in the notice. If 
not, application will be rejected. 
 (e) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledge. 
complaints for any loss of applications in the 
post will not be considered. 
 9.1 Only those who have fulfilled qualifications 
prescribed in chapter 5 of Gazette notification 
as at the closing date of application should 
apply. Surveyor General will allow candidates 
who have paid specified examination fees and 
submitted application on or before 15.05.2017 
to sit the competitive examination. issuing 
of admission card shall not be deemed as the 
applicant possesses qualifications to the post 
or to sit the examination. 
 9.2 the envelope containing the application 
should be clearly marked "Recruitment to 
posts of primary semi skilled - Survey field 
assistant" on the top left hand corner. 
 9.3 the signature of the applicant in the 
application should be certified by a principal 
of a government school/justice of the peace/
commissioner of oaths/attorney-at-law/
Commissioned officer in the Army/an officer 
in Police Service hold a Gazetted post or an 
officer who hold a permanent post in public 
service in tertiary or senior level in terms of 
the grading of Public Service circular No. 
3/2016.
10. examination Fees.- Examination fee is Rs. 800/-. this 
fee should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General 
office in No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any 
of district survey office or at institute of surveying and 
mapping - diyathalawa. the receipt should be pasted in 
the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant). the fee is 
not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. applications without cash 
receipts will be rejected. 
11. Submission of application. - completed application 
should be sent by registered post to reach to the following 
address on or before 15.05.2017 :
 Senior Superintendent of Survey (Examination),
 Surveyor General's Office, 
 colombo 05. 
12. Appearing for the examination.- Every candidate 
should hand over their admission card to the supervisor 
of the Examination centre. a candidate who fails to hand 
over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. the candidate should sit the examination at 
the examination hall assigned to him. 
13. Identity of candidate.-  candidates should prove 
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
773
the supervisor for each paper they sit. any of the following 
documents will be accepted for their purpose :
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of persons.
 (ii) a  valid postal identity card issued by the post 
master general. 
 (iii) a  valid passport. 
14. Any matter not specified here, will be determined by 
the Surveyor General. 
  P. M. P. udayakantha, 
  Surveyor General. 
Surveyor General's Office, 
colombo 05,
21st March, 2017. 
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM 
recruitment to Primary semi skiLLed Post (PL 02-2016) 
Which remain v acant in survey dePartment - survey 
fieLd assistant 
01. index No. : 
 For office use only     
02. Medium of Examination : 
 (Sinhala - S,  tamil - t,  English - E)
 (indicate the letter/code in given cage)
03. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
 in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
 in English :–––––––––––––.
  03.1  Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
     in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
     in English :–––––––––––––.
04. National identity card No. : 
05. date of Birth : 
 date :   Month :   y ear : 
 05.1 age as at the closing date of application :––––––.
06. Gender :
 (Male – M female – f)
07. Permanent address (in legible letters) :
    in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
    in English :–––––––––––––.
 07.1 administrative district to which address 
belongs (See the Schedule 1)
  district No. Name of the 
   district 
 07.2 date from which the applicant is resident in the 
district :–––––––––––––.
08. telephone No. :
 Permanent :–––––––––––––. Mobile :–––––––––––––.
 
09. Educational Qualifications : 
 09.1 details of G. c. E. ordinary level Examination : 
  1st attempt :
  (a) y ear and month of the examination :––––––––.
  (b) index No. :–––––––––––––.
  (c) Subjects passed :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade 
1   5
2   6
3   7
4   8
 09.2 details of G. c. E. ordinary level Examination : 
  
  2nd attempt :
  (a) y ear and month of the examination :––––––––.
  (b) index No. :–––––––––––––.
  (c) Subjects passed :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade 
1   5
2   6
3   7
4   8
10. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
 (Mention the NVQ qualifications that have been 
obtained) 
11. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any 
offence :
  y es   No
 12.1 if yes give details :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
774
13. details of receipt which the examination fees paid : 
  (i) Office at which the payment made :––––––––––.
  (ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) amount paid : 
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
14. Certificate of the candidate : 
 (a) i, declare that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. 
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration made by me is 
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit 
for the appointment and if it is found after the 
appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from 
the service. 
 (c) the cash receipt obtained for the payment of 
.......... has been pasted in relevant cage. 
 (d) further, i declare that i agree to comply with the 
rules and regulations laid down by the Surveyor 
General in respect of the examination. 
 (e) i shall not subsequently change any of the 
particulars mentioned here. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––.
15. Certification of signature of the Applicant : 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who is 
submitting the application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his/her signature under the Section 13, 
in my presence. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attester. 
date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
16. Recommendation of the Head of the department (only 
for the applicant who are in Public/Provincial Public 
Service) : 
 16.1 According to the personal file of the officer, 
during the five years immediately prior to the 
closing date of application. 
  Work, Behavior, attendance satisfactory/
unsatisfactory.
  all salary increments have been earned/have not 
bee earned.
  Has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary 
action. 
 16.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can 
be/cannot be released from the post he holds at 
present. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the 
  Department official stamp. 
date :–––––––––––––.
scheduLe 01
this Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts 
to which address belongs on No. 7.1 of the application. 
 Town/District Name Town/District No. 
 (i) colombo 01
 (ii) Gampaha 02
 (iii) kalutara 03
 (iv) kandy 04
 (v) Matale 05
 (vi) Nuwara Eliya 06
 (vii) Galle 07
 (viii) Matara 08
 (ix) Hambanthota 09
 (x) kurunegala 10
 (xi) Puttalam 11
 (xii) anuradapura 12
 (xiii) Polonnaruwa 13
 (xiv) Badulla 14
 (xv) Monaragala 15
 (xvi) Rathnapura 16
 (xvii) kegalle 17
 (xviii) ampara 18
 (xix) Batticaloa 19
 (xx) t rincomalee 20
 (xxi) Jaffna 21
 (xxii) Vavuniya 22
04–73

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
775
mINISTRy  Of  LAND
Survey Department 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN HEld 
foR REcRuitMENt to tHE PoSt of SuRVEy 
iNStRuMENt tEcHNiciaN WHicH REMaiN 
VacaNt iN tHE SuRVEy dEPaRtMENt
aPPlicatioNS are invited from citizens of Sri lanka 
for the open competitive examination held for the post of 
Survey instrument technician in Survey department. 
01. Number of Vacancies : 07.
02. Nature of the Post.– Maintenance and Services of 
instruments and tools pertaining to surveying. 
03. 1. Question papers to be answered : 
 Subjects Time  Maximum Pass  
   marks marks
intelligent test 01 hour 100% 40%
technical paper 02 hours 100% 40%
 2. Selections will be made on the total marks obtained 
for the question papers. 
04. Recruitment Grade.– Grade iii in the post of Survey 
instrument technician. 
05. Conditions of engagement of service. – this post 
is permanent and pensionable. contributions should be 
paid to the Widows and orphans/Widowers and orphans 
Pension fund. appointment is subject to 3 year probation 
period and selected candidates should prepare to serve 
only in the head office and subject to general conditions 
applicable to appointment to the public service specified at 
the beginning of this Gazette Notification. 
06. Salary Scale.– Monthly Rs. 29,840 -10x300 - 
11x350 - 10x560 - 10x660 - Rs. 48,890. (Mt 1-2016)
* this salary scale is implemented from 01.01.2020 and 
payment of salary will be made as per the Schedule 
ii of  P. a. c. No. 03/2016.
initial salary step applicable to the grade system :
 Grade  Initial Salary step Initial Salary
    Scale    
 iii Step 01 Rs. 29,840
 ii Step 12 Rs. 33,190
 i Step 23 Rs. 37,250
07. Age limit.– the minimum age should be 18 years 
and maximum age should be 35 years.
08. Educational Qualifications.– Having passed in six 
(06) subjects at one sitting with three (03) credit passes 
for :
1.  Sinhala/tamil/English language ;
2. Science, Mathematics in the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary level) examination ; 
 and
 Having passed the mathematics stream of General 
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level).
Professional Qualifications. – Having followed one 
year electronic or mechanical course from a Government 
recognized technical college. 
09. Method of recruitment to the service.– Selection 
for appointments will be made on vacancies from the 
candidates who have fulfilled qualifications and on the 
result of a written examination. 
10. It is compulsory to complete all the qualification 
applicable to the post before the closing date of application, 
by each candidate. 
11. Applications and other particulars : 
(a) (i) the application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself using 21x29cm (a4) paper 
as per the specimen application appearing 
at the end of this notice.chapter  No. 01-08 
should be on page 01,No.09-12on page 2, and 
No.13-16 should be on page 3.the receipt 
obtained for the payment of examination 
fee should be pasted below that and "Post 
of Survey instrument technician" should be 
clearly written on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope containing the application. 
completed applications should be sent by 
registered post to reach to the address of 
Survey General, Survey department, kirula 
Road, Narahenpita, colombo 05 on or before 
07th May 2017 (Should not be sent to the 
private name or any other address). 
 (ii) incomplete, belated, applications which 
qualifications have not been fulfilled will be 
rejected without any notice. 
 (iii) We will not be responsible for applications 
which missing in the post. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
776
 (iv) Examination fees will not be refundable for 
whatever reason.
 (v) Receipt of applications will not be 
acknowledged. 
(b) the signature of the applicant in the application 
can be certified by a principal of a government 
school or justice of peace or commissioner of 
oaths or attorney-at-law or commissioned 
Officer in the army, Air force or an officer in 
police service holds a Gazetted post or an officer 
who holds a permanent post in public service in 
professional or senior level in terms of grading 
of public service circular No. 06/2006.
12. the following documents should be furnished at the 
interview :
 (i) Birth Certificate,  
 (ii) Educational Certificates, 
 (iii) Recently obtained, Grama Niladhari Certificate, 
 (iv) Two Character Certificates 
 
N.B.– Certifie d copies of educational, professional 
and birth certificate should be furnished with the 
application.   
13. applicants those who are already in the government 
service should furnish their applications through their 
Heads of the departments. 
14. Examination fee is Rs.800. the receipt obtained 
paying the examination fee to any district survey office or 
cashier in head office should be pasted in relevant place 
of the application. Money order or cheques will not be 
accepted.
15. action will be taken to hold the examination in the 
head office or in any other suitable centre. Applicants will 
be informed of the date of examination later. 
16. Admission to the examination.– admission cards are 
sent by post to all those who have forwarded applications 
and fulfilled basic qualifications, to the address mentioned in 
their application. a candidate who sits for the Examination 
should hand over his/her admission card to the supervisor 
of the examination centre. a candidate who fails to hand 
over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. the candidate should sit the examination at 
the examination hall assigned to him/her. 
Note.– issuing of admission card shall not be deemed 
as the applicant possesses qualifications to the 
post or to sit the Examination.
17. Identity of candidate.– candidate should prove their 
identity at the Examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor. the following documents will be accepted for 
this purpose.
 (a) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (b) the valid postal identity card issued by the Post 
Master General. 
 (c) a  valid passport. 
18. Punishment for furnishing false information.– if a 
candidate is found not to have required qualification, his/
her. candidature can be cancelled before the examination 
or duration of the Examination or after the Examination 
or at any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a 
candidate are found to be false within his/her knowledge 
or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact he/
she will be liable to dismissal from the public service. 
19. Medium of language.– this Examination will be 
held in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums. candidates 
may present themselves for Examination in the medium 
preferred. the medium applied for will not be allowed to 
change subsequently.
20. Matters not covered by this conditions will be 
determined by the Surveyor General. 
  P. M. P. 
udayakantha, 
  Surveyor General. 
Survey department, 
colombo 05,
23rd March, 2017. 
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM 
oPen comPetitive examination for the Post of survey 
instrument technician in survey dePartment
 (For office use only)
 (indicate the code Numbers in the relevant cage)
01. 1. Name with initials : 
  (i) in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) in English :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
777
 2. Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) : 
  (i) in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) in English :–––––––––––––.
02.  (i) Permanent address (in legible letters) :––––––––.
  (ii) administrative district to which address belong  
  :––––––––––.
03. Gender :
 (Male - M female - f)
04. Medium of examination : 
 (Sinhala - S,  tamil - t,  English - E)
05. Race : 
 (Sinhala - 1,  Sri lankan tamil - 2, Muslim - 3, 
 indian tamil - 4, Burger - 5, Male - 6,  other - 7)
06. (i) divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) Grama Niladhari division :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) date from which the applicant is resident in the 
district :–––––––––––––.
07. citizenship : 
 By descent 
 By registration 
08. National identity card No. : 
09.  (i) date of Birth : 
   date :–––––––,  Month :––––––,  year :–––––––.
  (ii) age as at the closing date of application : 
      days :–––––––, Months :––––––,  years :––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
 (i) G. c. E. (o/l) Examination :  
  1st attempt 
  1. year and month of the examination :––––––––.
  2. index No. :–––––––––––––.
  3. Subjects passed :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade 
1   5
2   6
3   7
4   8
 (ii) G. c. E. (o/l) Examination : 
   2nd attempt 
  1. year and month of the examination :––––––––.
  2. index No. :–––––––––––––.
  3. Subjects passed :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade 
1   5
2   6
3   7
4   8
 (iii) G. c. E. (a/l) Examination : 
  1. year and month of the examination :––––––––.
  2. index No. :–––––––––––––.
  3. Subjects passed :
  Subject Grade   
1   
2    
3    
4   
11. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any 
offence :
 y es   No
 if yes give details :–––––––––––––.
13. Survey office at which the, payment made :–––––––––.
 Receipt No. :–––––––––––––.
 date, the payment made :–––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt firmly here
14. declaration of the candidate : 
 (a) i declare that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. 
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration made by me is 
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit 
for the appointment and if it is found after the 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
778
appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from 
the service. 
 (c) i agree to comply with the regulations of this 
examination.
 (d) the cash receipt obtained for the payment of 
................ has been pasted in relevant place. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––.
15. Certification of signature of the Applicant : 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who is 
submitting the application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attester. 
date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
 
16. Recommendation of the Head of the department : 
If selected, this officer can be/cannot be released.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the department. 
date :–––––––––––––.
scheduLe 01
this Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts 
to which address belongs on No. 06.1 of the application. 
 Town/District Name Town/District No. 
 1. colombo 01
 2. Gampaha  02
 3. kalutara 03
 4. kandy 04
 5. Matale 05
 6. Nuwara Eliya 06
 7. Galle 07
 8. Matara 08
 9. Hambanthota 09
 10. kurunegala 10
 11. Puttalam 11
 12. anuradapura 12
 13. Polonnaruwa 13
 14. Badulla 14
 15. Monaragala 15
 16. Rathnapura 16
 17. kegalle 17
 18. ampara 18
 19. Batticaloa 19
 20. t rincomalee 20
 21. Jaffna 21
 22. Vavuniya 22
04–135/1
–––––––––––––––––
SuRvEy   DEPARTmENT 
Limited Competitive Examination held for 
recruitment to the Posts of Survey Instrument 
Technician which remain vacant in the Survey 
Department
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified departmental 
employees for the competitive examination to be held for 
recruitment to the Post of Survey instrument technician 
which remain vacant in Survey department. 
 1.1   Post for which  Number of  Grade 
   recruitment is made Vacancies
  Survey instrument 01 Grade iii
  t echnician
 1.2 Nature of duties of the post : 
 * Maintenance and services of instruments and 
apparatus pertaining to surveying work. 
2. the number of appointment and the date of 
appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. 
The appointing authority has power not to fill all or any 
number of vacancies. 
 Town/District Name Town/District No.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
779
3. Salary :
table – No. 01
   Initial 
 Grade Salary Scale monthly 
   salary
   Rs. 
Grade iii Monthly Rs. 29,840 -10x300 -  29,840
  11x350 -10x560 - 10x660 -
  Rs. 48,890 (Mt 1-2016) 
Grade ii Monthly Rs. 29,840 -10x300 -  33,190
  11x350 - 10x560 -  10x660 -
  Rs. 48,890 (Mt 1-2016) 
Grade i Monthly Rs. 29,840 -10x300 -  37,250
  11x350 - 10x560 - 10x660 -
  Rs. 48,890 (Mt 1-2006a)
* this salary scale is implemented from 01.01.2020 
and payment of salary will be made as per the 
Schedule ii of P. a. c. No. 03/2016.
4. this post is permanent and pensionable. appointment 
is subject to 03 years probation period and selected 
applicants must be prepared to serve in only the head office. 
5. Qualifications : 
 5.1 Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed 
the G. c. E. (o/l) Examination in five (05) 
subjects with three (03) credit passes for Sinhala/
tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics in 
one sitting at the G. c. E. (o/l) examination and 
having passed six (06) subjects in not more than 
two sittings.
 5.2 Professional Qualifications.– Having follwed one 
year course on electornic or mechanical science 
form a government recognized technical college. 
 5.3  experience.– Being a departmental employee 
with six (06) years experience in the relevant 
field. 
 5.4 Physical Fitness : 
 (i) all candidates should be physically and 
mentally fit adequate to serve in any part of Sri 
lanka and to carry out duties in the post. 
 5.5 Other.– Should have completed all the necessary 
qualifications for recruitment to the post in all 
respect as at the date mentioned in the notice 
calling for application. 
Note.– It is compulsory to complete qualifications 
applicable to the post by all the applicants, on or 
before the closing date of application. 
6. Furnishing false Information.– if a candidate is found 
not to have required qualifications, his/her candidature can 
be cancelled before the examination or duration of the 
examination, or after the examination or at any time. if any 
of the particulars furnished by a candidate are found to be 
false within his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully 
suppressed any material fact he/she will be liable to 
dismissal from the public service. 
7. examination Procedure.– the examination is a 
written test consisting of two subjects. this examination 
will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums. 
the medium applied for will not be allowed to change 
subsequently. 
 Total  Minimum Time
 marks  percentage  
 obtainable of marks  
  required  for 
  a pass
 (i) intelligent 100 40% 1 hour
  t est
 (ii) technical 100 40% 2 hours
  Paper
8. Selection Procedure : 
 8.1 Number of candidates equal to the number to be 
filled, of the candidates who obtained the highest 
marks of a written examination conducted by the 
Surveyor General, will be recruited in the order of 
merits. 
 8.2 an interview will be held to ascertain whether the 
qualifications have been fulfilled and no marks will 
be given. 
9. Preparation and Submission of Application : 
 (a) the application should be prepared by the applicant 
himself using both sides of paper size 21x29 (a4) as 
per the specimen application appearing at the end of 
this notice. No. 01-05 should be on page 01, No.06-
09.1 on page 02, No. 09.2-12 on page 03, No. 13-15 
shold be on page 04 of the application. 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
780
 (b) candidates should forward their applications 
through their Heads of the institutions. 
 (c) applications should be in the language in which the 
candidate is eligible to sit the examination. 
 (d) candidates should bear consequences of improper 
filling of application. It would be useful to retain 
a photocopy of the application. it is responsibility 
of the candidate to find out whether the application 
complies with the application specified in the notice. 
if not application can be rejected. 
 09.1 the envelope containing the application, should 
be clearly marked, "Survey instrument technician 
- limited competitive Examination" on the top 
left hand corner. 
10. examination fee.– Examination fee is Rs. 300. this 
fee should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General 
Office in No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any of 
district survey office or at the Institute of surveying and 
Mapping - diyathalawa. the receipt should be pasted in 
the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant). the fee 
is not refundable in any circumstance and money orders 
and cheques will not be accepted. applications without 
receipts will be rejected. 
11. Submission of application.– completed application 
should be sent by registered post to reach to the following 
address on or before 07th May 2017 : 
  Surveyor General
  Survey department, 
  P. o. Box 506, 
  colombo.
12. Appearing for the examination.– Every candidate 
should hand over their admission card to the supervisor 
of the examination centre. a candidate who fails to hand 
over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. the candidate should sit the examination at 
the examination hall assigned to him. 
13. Identity of candidate. – candidates should prove 
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor for each paper they sit. any of the following 
documents will be accepted for this purpose : 
 (i) the valid National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons. 
 (ii) the valid passport. 
14. Any matter not specified here will be determined by 
the Surveyor General. 
  P. M. P. 
udayakantha, 
  Surveyor General. 
Survey department, 
colombo 05,
23rd March, 2017. 
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM 
Limited comPetitive examination for recruitment to the 
Post of survey instrument technician Which remain 
v acant in the survey dePartment 
For office use only     
01. Medium of Examination : 
 (Sinhala - S,  tamil - t,  English - E)
 (indicate the letter in given cage)
02. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
 in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
 in English :–––––––––––––.
  02.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
      in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
      in English :–––––––––––––.
03. National identity card No. :–––––––––––––.
04. date of Birth : 
 date :––––––––,  Month :–––––––,  year :–––––––––.
  04.1  age as at closing date of application : 
      days :––––––, Months :––––––,  years :–––––.
05. Gender :
 (Male – M female – f)
06. Permanent address (in legible letters) :–––––––––––.
 06.1 administrative district to which address belong  
 (See Schedule 01)
  district No. Name of the 
    district 
 06.2 date from which the applicant is resident in the  
 district :–––––––––––––.
07. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
 07.1 Experience :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
781
08. 
 08.1 the post for which recruitment was made in the 
departmental service and the date :–––––––––––.
 08.2 Employee No. :–––––––––––––.
 08.3 Whether confirmed in that post :––––––––––––.
 08.4 Whether the officers has been subject to 
disciplinary punishment in the service period : 
–––––––––––––.
  08.4.1 if the answer "yes" 
      Give details :–––––––––––––.
 08.5 in case of change of post after the initial post, 
mention particulars : 
 Post Date of appointment Confirmation in
   the post
09. Educational Qualifications : 
 09.1 details of G. c. E. ordinary level Examination : 
 
  1st attempt 
  (i) year and month of the examination :––––––––.
  (ii) index No. :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) Subjects passed :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade 
1   5
2   6
3   7
4   8
 09.2 details of G. c. E. ordinary level Examination : 
   2nd attempt 
  (i) year and month of the examination :––––––––.
  (ii) index No. :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) Subjects passed :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade 
1   5
2   6
3   7
4   8
10. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
11. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any 
offence :
  y es   No
 11.1 if yes give details :–––––––––––––.
12. details of receipt which the examination fees paid : 
  (i) Office at which the payment made :––––––––––.
  (ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) amount paid :–––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt firmly here
13. Certificate of the candidate : 
 (a) i, declare that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. 
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration made by me is 
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit 
for the appointment and if it is found after the 
appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from 
the service. 
 (c) the cash receipt obtained for the payment of          
Rs. .......... has been pasted in relevant cage. 
 (d) further, i declare that i agree to comply with 
the rules and regulations laid down by the 
Surveyor General in respect of conduction of the 
examination. 
 (e) i shall not subsequently change any of the 
particulars mentioned here. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––.
14. Certification of signature of the Applicant : 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who is 
submitting the application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attester. 
date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
782
15. Recommendation of the Head of the department : 
Personal file of the officer was examined. I certify that 
the information furnished by him under head 8 and 9 is 
correct. If selected to the post this officer can be/cannot be 
released from the post he holds at present. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the Branch. 
date :–––––––––––––.
scheduLe 01
this Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts 
to which address belongs on No. 06.1 of the application. 
 Town/District Name Town/District No. 
 1. colombo 01
 2. Gampaha 02
 3. kalutara 03
 4. kandy 04
 5. Matale 05
 6. Nuwara Eliya 06
 7. Galle 07
 8. Matara 08
 9. Hambanthota 09
 10. kurunegala 10
 11. Puttalam 11
 12. anuradapura 12
 13. Polonnaruwa 13
 14. Badulla 14
 15. Monaragala 15
 16. Rathnapura 16
 17. kegalle 17
 18. ampara 18
 19. Batticaloa 19
 20. t rincomalee 20
 21. Jaffna 21
 22. Vavuniya 22
04–135/2
DEPARTmENT Of AyuRvEDA 
Efficiency  Bar  Examination  of  Sri  Lanka  
Ayurvedic  medical  Service - 2016-(II)
IT is hereby notify that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for ayurvedic Medical Service (for ayurvedic Medical 
Officers) will be held in Colombo by the Department of 
ayurveda. 
01. candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner of ayurveda. 
02. the application for this examination should be in 
the form of the specimen appendix to this notification 
and should be prepared by the candidate him/herself. 
Application should be sent by those who are qualified 
according to the service minute of the Sri lanka ayurvedic 
Medical Service, by the registered post through the 
respective heads of institution to reach the "Registrar, 
Examination division, department of ayurveda, Nawinna, 
Maharagama" on or before 27.04.2017 "Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Sri lanka ayurvedic Medical Service - 
2016 (ii)" should be indicated at the top left hand corner 
of the envelope containing the application. applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected. 
the candidates appearing for the examination for the 
first time need not to pay examination fees. However, 
stamps to the value of Rs. 200 should be affixed for the 
whole examinations for subsequent sittings and stamps 
to the value of Rs. 50 per subject should be affixed if not 
applying for the whole examination. the stamp should 
be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate 
and the date. under any circumstance the fees will not be 
refunded or transferred. 
03. Identity of the candidates .– candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
for this purpose one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor :–
 (i) the National identity card issued by department 
of Registration of Persons ;
 (ii) a  valid Passport. 
04. the commissioner, department of ayurveda will 
issue the timetable and admission card to all candidates 
whose applications have been accepted. candidates should 
get their signature on the admission card attested in advance 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
783
and submit to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
candidates without admission cards will not be permitted 
to sit for the examination . if a candidate has not received 
his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before the 
day of examination. He/She should without delay inform 
the "Registrar, Examination division, department of 
ayurveda, Nawinna, Maharagama" about the non-receipt 
of admission cards along with the following information : 
 (i) Name of the Examination :–––––––––––.
 (ii) full Name of the candidate :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Postal address :–––––––––––.
 (iv) Name of the Post Office, Registration Number 
and date of the Receipt :–––––––––––.
05. Scheme of examination.- (according to the service 
minute of the Sri lanka ayurvedic Medical Service) :
 i. Financial Regulation - One paper based on the 
following :
 (i) financial Regulation of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka Part i (Except 
chapter x).
 ii. establishment Code - one paper based on the 
following :
 (i) chapters - i, ii, iii, iV , V , Vi, Vii, Viii, xii, 
xiii, xiV , xxiii, xxVii, xxix, xxx, 
xxxii of the V olume i of the Establishment 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri lanka and Procedural Rules code of the 
Public Service commission. 
 (ii) chapters - xlVii and xlViii of Part ii of the 
Establishment code of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka. 
 iii. Hospital Administration - one paper based on the 
following :–
 (i) General rules and regulations relevant to the 
hospitals. 
 (ii) cleanliness in hospital. 
 (iii) Rules and Regulations relevant to the 
patients. 
 (iv) Supply proper meals to the patients. 
 (v) administration of drug manufactures. 
 (vi) Rules and Regulations regarding the 
admission of patients. 
 (vii) knowledge of the duties of all the employees 
in the hospitals. 
 (viii) General administration in hospitals. 
 (ix) General administration of the department of 
ayurveda. 
 (x) Regulation of the stores accounts of the 
department of ayurveda. 
 (xi) Manual of procedure of the department of 
ayurveda.
 iV. Official Languages - oral test. Sinhala/tamil (15 
minutes) :
 (i) For officers who joined the service in Sinhala 
Medium :
 (a)  answering the tamil questions in tamil 
language. 
 (b)  translate tamil sentences to Sinhala 
language. 
 (c)  translate Sinhala sentences to tamil 
language. 
 (ii) For officers who joined the service in Tamil 
Medium :
 (a)  answering the Sinhala questions in Sinhala  
language. 
 (b)  translate Sinhala sentences to tamil 
language. 
 (c)  translate tamil sentences to Sinhala 
language. 
Note.– candidate must obtain at least 40 marks to pass 
in each subject. 
 
a. m. k. k. aththanayake, 
 Secretary (Acting), 
 Ministry of Health Nutrition
 and indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of Health Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine, 
No. 385, 
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10,
24th March, 2017. 

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
784
SPEciMEN  aPPlicatioN  foRM 
efficiency  Bar  examination  of  sri  Lanka 
ayurvedic  medicaL  service - 2016-(ii)
   index No. : 
   (For office use only)
   Medium of Examination : 
   (Write the relevant letter in the cage)
   Sinhala - S    tamil - t
01. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
 (in English capital letters)
02. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil)
03. Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
 (in English capital letters)
04. Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil letters)
05. National identity card No. : 
06. (i) Name and address of the Office/Department/
institute (in English capital letters) :–––––––––.
 (ii) Province of the Office/Department/Institute :                
–––––––––.
07. (i) Name and address of the Office/Department/
institute (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Telephone No. (Official) :––––––––––––.
08. (i) Post :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Number and date of the letter of appointment : 
––––––––––.
09. Subject/Subjects you wish to face : 
 Serial Number Subject Subject No. 
10. Have you passed one or more subjects from any of the 
following subjects in previous examination sittings. 
financial Regulations/Establishment code/Hospitals 
Management/oral Examination (tamil/Sinhala) : 
 if so, index No., year and Month : 
 Subject Index No.  Year and Month
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :    
–––––––––––.
 If not, value of the stamps affixed :––––––––––––.
 Stamp cage : 
stamp to the value of Rs. 200 for the whole 
examination and Rs. 50 for each subject 
Note.– the candidate should affix stamps to the relevant 
value and cancel them by placing their signature and 
date. Stamps should not overlap each other. 
i declare that the above particulars are true that i am 
eligible to appear for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above. i also certify that the Rs. 
........................... stamps affixed here to are genuine and 
have not been used before. i agree to abide by the rules and 
regulations of this examination. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the candidate. 
date :––––––––––––.
Note.– the candidate should sign in the presence of the 
Head of his/her Department/Institute or an officer 
authorized to sign on behalf of such Head of the 
department. 
Attestation of the Signature 
i do hereby certify that ............................. who forward 
this application is an officer attached to my office/known 
to me personally and that he/she placed his/her signature 
before me on ......................
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature and rubber stamp 
  of the attester. 
Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
04–93

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
785
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the 
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book list)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (list of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.04.2017
786
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2017
 APRIL 07.04.2017 friday — 24.03.2017 friday 12 noon
  12.04.2017 Wednesday –– 31.03.2017 friday 12 noon
  21.04.2017 friday –– 07.04.2017 friday 12 noon
  28.04.2017 friday –– 12.04.2017 Wednesday 12 noon
 mAy 05.05.2017 friday — 21.04.2017 friday 12 noon
  12.05.2017 friday –– 28.04.2017 friday 12 noon
  19.05.2017 friday –– 05.05.2017 friday 12 noon
  26.05.2017 friday –– 12.05.2017 friday 12 noon
 JuNE 02.06.2017 friday — 19.05.2017 friday 12 noon
  09.06.2017 friday –– 26.05.2017 friday 12 noon
  16.06.2017 friday –– 02.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  23.06.2017 friday –– 09.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  30.06.2017 friday –– 16.06.2017 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2017.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNka.