

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2023
2023
wxl 1"883 - 2014 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'10'03
No. 1,883 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 03, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2026
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2029
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th October, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th
October, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,882 of 26.09.2014 was not published.
N.B.—   Chandrakumar Community Development Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 12, 2014.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2024
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2025
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2026
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 03rd of October,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
11th September, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Kalutara Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Kalutara and Panadura Totamuna General, District Secretariat,
Division of Kalutara South Area Kalutara.
10–26
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
KILINOCHCHI   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2027
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 03rd of November,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
12th September, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Application is called Applications should be sent
Kilinochchi Pachchilaipalli Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
 (Pallai) of Mullippattu Division and Registrar General, District
Marriages (General) of Pachchilaipalli Secretariat, Kilinochchi.
Division
10–190
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
REGISTRATION OF EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS AS LECTURERS/INSTRUCTORS ACADEMIC YEAR  - 2015
APPLICATIONS are invited for the registration of External Resource Persons as Lecturers/Instructors in the Colleges of Technolo gy/
Technical Colleges under this Department by the Directors/Principals of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges, indicated in  the
Schedule given at the end of this notice.
02. Specimen Application and list of subjects for which External Resource Persons are required, can be obtain from the Director/
Principal of the College of Technology/Technical College where you wish to serve by sending him a self addressed stamped envelo pe
(9" x 4"). The top left - hand corner of the envelope should be marked “External Resource Persons”. These particulars may also be
obtained from the Principals in person.
03. The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 28th November, 2014.
04. General Information for Applicant :
(i) Applicants should note to give all particulars regarding their qualifications and experience in the Educational, Professional
and Technical fields.
(ii) Fees.– Fees payable to External Resource Persons vary from Rs. 250 to Rs. 1,000 per hour in accordance with their
experience, qualifications and level of the course they are selected to serve.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2028
(iii) Forwarding of Applications.– Applications from officers in the Public Service should be forwarded through the Heads of
their Departments/Institutes with an endorsement by the respective Heads to the effect that their selection of the
applicant as an External Resource Persons will not affects their normal duties.
(iv) Selections.– Selections for these registrations will be may subsequent to interviews conducted by the Director/Principals
of the respective Colleges. Preference will be given to applicants with experience in teaching. Please note that the
registration can be terminated according to requirements of the College, by the Director/Principal, without giving any
reasons and at any time during the Academic Year.
(v) Registered External Resource Persons should conduct internal examinations in their respective subjects without additional
remuneration.
05. These registration are valid only for the Academic Year 2015 and may be terminated even earlier in accordance with the
requirements.
06. If an applicant wishes to apply for more than one subject, separate applications should be sent for each such subject. All
applications should be sent to Director/Principal of the appropriate College of Technology/Technical College under registered P ost to
reach him before the closing date specified by him.
J. A. R
ANJITH,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk
L
IST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Serial T echnical College/College of Address District
No. Technology
01 Sri Lanka College of T echnology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna College of Technology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla College of T echnology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07 Kurunegala College of Technology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08 Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09 Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
15 Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara-Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College S tation Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2029
Serial T echnical College/College of Address District
No. Technology
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College Wewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New T own, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Medagama (via Bibile) Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya Vavuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Main Street, Akkarapattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
39 MannarTechnical College Panani, Wedduvan Junction, Madu Road Mannar
10–05
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY   OF   YOUTH   AFFAIRS  AND   SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES CONDUCTED AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL
COLLEGES - 2015
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses conducted in Colleges of  Technology/Technical Colleges appearing in this
Gazette Notification. Students for admission will be selected from among the applicants according to the qualifications and merit, and the
place available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own applications on a 13" x 8" sheet of paper in accordance with the
“Specimen Application Form” given in this notification. As specified in item 13 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs. 10  stamp duly cancelled with the candidate’s usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Director/Principal of the respective College of Technology/Technical College to which admission
is sought to reach him on or before 28.11.2014. Applicants are advised not to submit applications to this department or to any
officer’s official or personal addresses.
03. The top left hand corner of the envelope should be marked with the title of the course applied for, and its course code.
 E.g.:- National Certificate in Engineering Draughtsmanship Course - ETC05
04. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05. Candidates are required to fill in their applications carefully with the Name and Code Number of the Course, College in which
the course to be followed and the Medium of Instruction of the Course correctly. Requests made subsequently to change the College, Course
or Medium of instruction will not be considered under any circumstances.
06. Fees will be charged from all those following Part Time and Evening Courses in the following manner :
(i) Part-time/Evening Certificate Courses (more than one Year) Rs. 2,000 per year ;
(ii) Part-time/Evening one year and Short Term Courses less than one year Rs. 1,500 per course.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2030
07. Attention of all Candidates is invited to the Schedule of Courses appended at the end of this notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges where the courses are conducted and medium of instruc tion. The
addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges where the courses are available are shown in the List of Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges.
08. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these colleges should :–
(i) be of excellent moral character ;
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude test and/or an interview.
10. Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce
the necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the interview will be deemed disqualified.
11. Subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,000  a month a stipend of Rs. 50 per day for attendance to classes will be paid to those who
follow any full time course depending on parental income.
About 1,600 Full Time Day Course students from low income families are paid a bursary of Rs. 2,500  per year.
12. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that
have been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely dealt with.
13. To conduct all courses or Several Courses in this Gazette notification for the Academic Year 2015, in Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges are subject to discretion of the Director General of Department of Technical Education and Training.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using separate application forms.
J. A. R
ANJITH,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
www.dtet.gov.lk
L
IST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Serial Technical College/College of Technology Address District
No.
01. Sri Lanka  College of Technology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02. Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03. Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04. Jaffna College of T echnology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05. Badulla College of Technology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06. Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07. Kurunegala College of T echnology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08. Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09. Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10. Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11. Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12. Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13. Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14. Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara, Kalutara
15. Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16. Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17. Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18. Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara - Eliya, Nuwara-Eliya

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2031
19. Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama, Colombo
20. Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21. Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22. Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23. Balapitiya Technical College Station Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24. Wariyapola T echnical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25. Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26. Bandarawela Technical College W ewathenna, Bandarawela, Badulla
27. Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28. Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29. Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30. Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31. Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32. Weerawila Technical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33. Medagama Technical College Medagama, (via Bibile) Monaragala
34. Polonnaruwa  Technical College V idyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35. Embilipitiya T echnical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36. Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya V avuniya
37. Akkaraipattu Technical College Main Street, Akkarapattu Ampara
38. Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
39. Mannar Technical College Pannai W edduvan Junction, Madu Road Mannar
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES ACADEMIC YEAR – 2015
For Official use only
(Applications must be directed to the Director/Principal of the relevant College of Technology/Technical
College. Addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges are given in the List of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges)
(Each Course applied for should be in a separate application)
01. Name of the College of Technology/Technical College :——––—.
02. Name of the Course applied with Code No. : 1. –––––––––––––
2. –––––––––––––
3. –––––––––––––
(Full Time Day/ Evening/Part Time)
(Mention three (3) courses as your preference)
Medium :——––—.
03. Applicant’s Name with Initials :——––—.
04. Names indicated by Initials :——––—.
05. Permanent Address :——––—.
06. Contact No. :——––—. E-mail :——––—.
07. National Identity Card No. :—––——.
08. District :—––——. Electorate :—––——.                Gramaniladari Division :—––——.
09. Date of Birth :  Year :——––—,  Month :—––——, Date :—––——.
Age as at 01.01.2015 : Years :—––——,  Months :—––——, Days :——––—.
10. Male/Female :———.
Serial Technical College/College of Technology Address District
No.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2032
11. Educational Qualifications :
(A) G. C. E. (O/L) Results (Not more than two attempts)
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(B) G . C. E. (A/L) Results (In one attempt) :–
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(C) Number of G . C. E. (A/L) sittings :—––——.
(D) Highest grade/year passed if the applicant has not obtained the qualifications mentioned in (A) above :-
 Grade :——––—,       Year :—––——.
12. Only for Evening and Part Time Courses :
To be filled only for courses for which employment is a requirement
12.1 Applicant’s Name :——––—.
12.2 Post held present and the Date of Appointment to the Post :—––——.
If self employed, the type of employment :—––——.
12.3 Work place and its address :——––—.
12.4 Employee Provident Fund No. (EPF) :——––—.
Employee Trust Fund No. (ETF) :——––—.
I certify that the above applicant is an employee in this Institute/Office,
12.5 Name of the Employer :—––——.
12.6 Designation :—––——.
12.7 Signature  :—––——. Official Seal :—––——.
12.8  Date :——––—.
13. Applicant’s Declaration :
I, hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge , and I have obtained the qualifications required
for the course applied for. Further I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleg es and to
accept the decision of the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :——––—.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10 should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2033
Schedule of Courses Conducted in Colleges of technology/Technical Colleges  –  2015
Engineering Technician Studies Courses :
Full Time Courses
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium
01 ETC 01 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Civil Engineering) passes including  Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Language and English Language. At least five (5)
Full Time Day subjects should be passed in one sitting  ;
Two Years or
Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering  Craft Practice 2 years course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft  Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2015.
02 ETC 02 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Electrical  Engineering) passes  including Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Language and English Language. At least five (5)
subjects should be passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering Craft Practice 2 years course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as
on 01.01.2015.
03 ETC 03 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Mechanical Engineering passes including Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Production Technology) Language and English Language. At least five (5)
subjects  should be passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering  Craft Practice 2 years course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as
on 01.01.2015

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2034
04 ETC 05 National Certificate 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects Sinhala Medium
in Engineering in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Draughtsmanship Anamaduwa,
The six (6) subjects should be - Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day Badulla,
One Year ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English ; Bal apitiya,
(b) Mathematics and Science ; Bandarawela,
*Course with National ( c) Three other Subjects Beliatta,
V ocational Qualification and Dambulla,
(NVQ) (Preference will be given to those followed Dehiattakandiya,
G . C. E. (A/L) in Mathematics Stream) Embilipitiya
Galle, Gampaha,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Hasalaka,
on 01.01.2015. Homagama,
Kalutara, Kandy,
Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana,
Matale,  Matara,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Trincomalee,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Batticaloa,  Jaffna,
Mannar,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
05 ETC 07 National Certificate in 1. Passes in four (4) Subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Sinhala Medium
Jewellery Manufacture Examination in one sitting ; Beliatta,
or Maradana
Full Time Day One Year should have passed year 09 and experience in
the relevant field. Tamil Medium
* Course with National Baticaloa
V ocational 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as
Qualification - (NVQ) on 01.01.2015.
06 ECC 40 Certificate in Landscaping 1. Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ; Sinhala Medium
for Junior Supervisors or Galle, Warakapola,
Have passed the National Certificate in Matara, Kandy,
Full Time Day Landscaping  Technology Craft Level III Course Dambulla,
One Year conducted in any of the V ocational Training Kulliyapitiya
Centers attached to VTA.
* Course with National Tamil Medium
V ocational Qualification 2. Age should be between 18 and 35 years as Sammanthurai
(NVQ) on 01.01.2015.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2035
Part Time Courses
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium
07 ETC  01.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in English Medium
Technology (Civil not more than  two sittings. Ampara,
Engineering) Six (6) subjects should be – Anuradhapura,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language ; Badulla, Balapitiya,
(b) Mathematics and Science ; Beliatta,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent . Dambulla,
Part Time qualifications Embilipitiya,
Three years 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Galle, Gampaha,
on 01.01.2015. Hasalaka,
(Restricted to those Homagama,
employed in the Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) Kegalle, Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
* Teaching in the first year Moneragala,
is Conducted in Sinhala/ Nuwera-Eliya,
Tamil Medium and the Matale,
Second and Third year Polonnaruwa,
in English Medium Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Weerawila,
Trincomalee,
Anamaduwa,
Bandarawela,
Kuliyapitiya,
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu
08 ETC 02.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
English Medium
Technology (Electrical in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Engineering) Six  (6) subjects should be :- Anuradhapura,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Badulla,
Part time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science, Balapitiya,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent Galle, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those qualifications Homagama,
employed in the or Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) Have passed the National Certificate in Kegalle,
Engineering Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year- Kurunegala,
* Teaching in the first Electrician course or Radio, TV and Electronics Maradana,
year is Conducted in course  conducted at Colleges of Technology Matara,
Sinhala/Tamil Medium and Technical colleges under the Department of Ratmalana,
and the second and Third Technical  Education and Training. Ratnapura,
Year in English Medium W arakapola,
Trincomalee,
2. Age should not be less than  17 years as Batticaloa,
on 01.01.2015. Sammanthurai,
Jaffna,
V avuniya,
Embilipitiya
Matale

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2036
09. ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in English Medium
Technology (Mechanical not more than two sittings. Kandy, Ratmalana,
Engineering - Production Six (06) subjects should be :- Kegalle, Maradana,
Technology) ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Kalutara,
(b) Mathematics and Science, Sammanthurai,
Part Time Three Years ( c) Three other subjects ; or equivalent qualifications A nuradhapura
or
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in
employed in the Engineering Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-
relevant field.) Motor V ehicle Mechanic/General Machinist/Fitter
Machinist course conducted at Colleges of
* Teaching in the first Technology and Technical Colleges under the
year is conducted in Department of Technical Education and Training.
Sinhala/Tamil medium
and the second and third 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
year in English medium on 01.01.2015.
10. ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Technology (Mechanical not more than two sittings. Kurunegala, Galle,
Engineering - Auto Six (06) subjects should be :- Matara, Warakapola,
Mobile Technology) ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Kandy, Jaffna,
(b) Mathematics and Science, Homagama,
Part Time Three Years ( c) Three other subjects ; or equivalent qualifications Sammanthurai
or
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering
employed in the Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Motor Vehicle
relevant field.) Mechanic/General Machinist/Fitter Machinist
course conducted at Colleges of Technology and
* Teaching in the first Technical Colleges under the and Department
year is conducted in of Technical Education and Training.
Sinhala/Tamil medium 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
and the second and third on 01.01.2015.
year in English medium
11. ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Technology (Mechanical not more th an two sittings. Ratnapura,
Engineering - Ref and Air Six (06) subjects should be :- Kalutara, Batticaloa,
Conditions Technology) ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Sammanthurai
(b) Mathematics and Science, Kandy
Part Time Three Years ( c) Three other subjects ; or equivalent qualifications
or
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering
employed in the Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Motor Vehicle
relevant field.) Mechanic/General Machinist/Fitter Machinist
course conducted at Colleges of Technology
* Teaching in the first and Technical Colleges under the Department
year is conducted in of Technical Education and Training.
Sinhala/Tamil medium 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
and the second and third on 01.01.2015.
year in English medium
12. ETC 04.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
English Medium
Technology (Quantity in not more than two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Surveying) Six (06) subjects should be :- Badulla,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Beliatta,
Part Time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science Galle, Gampaha,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2037
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent Homagama,
(Restricted to those qualifications Kalutara, Kandy,
employed in the 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Kegalle,
relevant field.) on 01.01.2015. Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
* Teaching in the first Ratmalana,
year is conducted in Ratnapura,
Sinhala/Tamil medium Trincomalee,
and the second and third W arakapola,
year in English medium Weerawila, Matale
Embilipitiya,
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
V avuniya,
Akkaraipattu
Engineering Craft Studies Courses :
Full Time Courses
01. ECC 08 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Anuradhapura,
Practice-(Electronics) Language in not more than two sittings Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Beliatta,
Two Years 01.01.2015. Galle, Gampaha,
Kalutara, Kandy,
* Course with Kegalle, Kurunegala,
National Vocational Maradana,
Qualification Nuwara-Eliya,
-(NVQ) Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Embilipitiya,
Trincomalee,
Monaragala, Ampara
Tamil Medium
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
V avuniya,
Akkaraipattu
English Medium
Kegalle
02. ECC10 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Galle, Kegalle,
Practice- (Fitter Language in not more than two sittings Dambulla, Beliatta,
Machinist) Kurunegala,
Kalutara,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Polonnaruwa,
Two Years 01.01.2015. W arakapola,
Badulla
* Course with
National V ocational Tamil Medium
Qualification- (NVQ) Sammanthurai
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2038
03. ECC13 National Certificate 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
in Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Ampara,
Practice- (Industrial Language in not more than two sittings ; Anuradhapura,
Electrician) or Embilipitiya,
Have passed the House Wiring Course Gampaha,
Full Time Day Conducted in any V ocational Training Homagama,
Two Years Centers attached to VTA, Kuliyapitiya,
Maradana,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Nuwara-Eliya,
on 01.01.2015. Polonnaruwa
* Course with Ratmalana,
National Vocational Trincomalee,
Qualification- (NVQ) Pathadumbara,
Weerawila, Matale,
Monaragala, Kandy,
Kurunegala,
Kalutara, Galle,
Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta,
Ratnapura, Kegalle,
Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Warakapola,
Dambulla, Hasalaka
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Vavuniya,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai
04 ECC 18 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Ampara,
Practice- (Motor Language in not more than two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Vehicle Mechanic) Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Beliatta,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dambulla,
Two Years 01.01.2015. Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha,
* Course with Homagama
National V ocational Kalutara, Kandy,
Qualification - (NVQ) Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala
Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola, Matale,
Trincomalee,
Dehiaththakandiya
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. qre Available  and Medium

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2039
Tamil M edium
Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya, Batticaloa
05 ECC 02 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara
Practice- (Gas and Arc Have passed the Welder Course conducted in Anamaduwa,
Welder) any of the V ocational Training Centres attached Anuradhapura,
to VTA Badulla, Balapitiya
Full Time Day Bandarawela,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Beliatta, Dambulla
01.01.2015. Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
* Course with Homagama,
National Vocational Kalutara,
Qualification - (NVQ) Kandy,  Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Trincomalee,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Pathadumbara,
Nuwara-Eliya
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
V avuniya,
Sammanthurai
English Medium
Maradana
06 ECC 09 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara,
Practice- (Plumber) Have passed the Plumbing Course conducted Anuradhapura,
in any of the V ocational Training Centers Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day attached to VTA Embilipitiya,
One Year Homagama,
2. Age should be between 17and 29 years as on Nuwara-Eliya,
* Course with 01.01.2015. Polonnaruwa,
National V ocational Ratnapura,
Qualification - (NVQ) Monaragala, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Galle, Badulla,
Kuliyapitiya,
Dambulla,
Kurunagala,
Ratmalana, Gampaha,
Trincomalee,
Hasalaka,
Bandarawela,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2040
Maradana,
Anamaduwa,
Kalutara
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Vavuniya,
Akkaraipattu
07 ECC 05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics, Science and Anuradhapura,
Practice-(Refrigeration Medium Language in not more than two sittings. Bandarawela,
and Air Conditioning Beliatta,
Mechanic) 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Embilipitiya, Galle,
on 01.01.2015. Gampaha,
Homagama,
Full Time Day Kalutara, Kandy,
One Year Kegalle, Matara,
Polonnaruwa,
* Course with Ratnapura,
National V ocational Maradana, Hasalaka
Qualification - (NVQ) Kuliyapitiya,
Ratmalana, Matale,
Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Mannar, Vavuniya,
Jaffna
English Medium
Batticaloa
08 ECC 06 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anuradhapura,
Practice-(Wood Machinist) have passed the Carpenter Course conducted Dehiattakandiya,
in any of the V ocational Training Centers Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day attached to VTA. Homagama,
One Year Kuliyapitiya,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Polonnaruwa,
* Course with on 01.01.2015. Ratnapura,
National V ocational Wariyapola,
Qualification - (NVQ) Anamaduwa,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Bandarawela, Galle,
Matara, Beliatta,
Kegalle, Badulla,
Monaragala,
Ratmalana, Ampara,
Kalutara, Hasalaka,
Dambulla,
Kurunegala
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2041
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
09 ECC 14 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anuradhapura,
Practice - (Construction have passed the Masonry Course conducted Bandarawela,
Craftsman) in any of the V ocational Training Centres Embilipitiya,
attached to VTA Wariyapola,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be b etween 17 and 29 years Ratnapura,
One Year as on 01.01.2015. Polonnaruwa,
Weerawila
* Course with Ratmalana,
National V ocational Homagama,
Qualification - (NVQ) Galle, Matara,
Dehiattakandiya
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Badulla,
Monaragala,
Kurunegala,
Dambulla, Maradana,
Anamaduwa
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai
Akkaraipattu
10. ECS 21 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Aluminium Fabrication Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Gampaha,
Full Time Day on 01.01.2015. Homagama, Kandy,
Six Months Kurunegala,
Matara,
* Course with Matale, Ratmalana,
National V ocational Warakapola,
Qualification - (NVQ) Balapitiya, Beliatta,
Monaragala,
Hasalaka,
Bandarawela,
Trincomalee, Kegalle
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Mannar,
Sammanthurai,
Jaffna
11. ECC 22 Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects in
Sinhala Medium
Electrical Trade not more than two sittings. Anamaduwa,
Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Ratnapura,
One Year 01.01.2015. Wariyapola,
Trincomalee,
*Course with Kegalle, Weerawila
National Vocational Beliatta,
Qualification - (NVQ) Polonnaruwa
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2042
Tamil Medium
Sammanthurai,
Jaffna
12. ECS 26 Certificate in Motor 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Cycle and Scooter Anuradhapura,
Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Beliatta,
on 01.01.2015. Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day Kegalle,
One Year Matale,
Pathadumbara,
* Course with Trincomalee,
National V ocational Weerawila, Galle,
Qualification - (NVQ) Matara, Ampara,
Dambulla, Hasalaka,
Kurunegala
Tamil Medium
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Vavuniya,
Trincomalee,
Sammanthurai,
Mannar
13. MCC 08 Certificate in Foot wear 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Making Embilipitiya,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Medagama
Full Time Day 01.01.2015. Ampara
One Year
* Course with
National V ocational
Qualification - (NVQ)
14. ECC 21 Certificate in House 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Hold Electrical Pathadumbara,
Appliances Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Trincomalee,
01.01.2015. Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day Kurunegala
Six Months
Tamil Medium
* Course with Trincomalee,
National Vocational Nuwara-Eliya,
Qualification - (NVQ) Vavuniya, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu
15. ECC 26 Certificate in Machining 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Gampaha,
One Year 01.01.2015. Embilipitiya,
Homagama, Kandy
* Course with Kalutara, Maradana,
National Vocational Ratmalana,
Qualification - (NVQ) Rathnapura,
Dambulla,
Warakapola,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2043
Matara,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Kegalle, Galle,
Beliatta,
Anuradhapura,
Ampara,
Dehiattakandiya
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Jaffna,
Sammanturai
16 ECC20 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Automobile Painting Kurunegala,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day 01.01.2015. Bandarawela
Six Months
Tamil Medium
* Course with Jaffna
National V ocational
Qualification - (NVQ)
17 ECC17 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Automobile Tinkering Kurunegala,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2015.
Six Months
Tamil Medium
Jaffna
* Course with
National V ocational
Qualification - (NVQ)
18 ECC34 Agriculture Equipment 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Mechanic Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dehiattakandiya
Full Time Day 01.01.2015.
One Year
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
19 ECC19 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Building Construction with passes in Mathematics and Medium Balapitiya,
Technology - Craft Language in not more than two sittings. W arakapola,
Practice (Multi Skill) Kegalle, Kandy
Galle, Matara
Ratnapura,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Beliatta,
One Year 01.01.2015. Kurunegala,
Embilipitiya,
Hasalaka
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
Sammanthurai
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2044
20 ECC 16 Certificate in Fruits and 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Vegetable Processor with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Kandy, Matale
Language and English in not more than two sittings.
Full Time Day Should have a credit pass in Science. English Medium
Six months Kandy
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
* Course with National 01.01.2015.
V ocational Qualification –
(NVQ)
21 ECS 27 Automobile 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Electrician Ratnapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Badulla,
Full Time Day 01.01.2015. Bandarawela,
Six months Dehiaththakandiya,
Kandy, Hasalaka,
* Course with National Kurunegala,
V ocational Qualification Homagama
- (NVQ)
22 ECS 28 Automobile Air 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Condition Kalutara,
Mechanic 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Ratnapura,
01.01.2015. Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day Trincomalee,
Six months Kurunegala,
Kuliyapitiya,
* Course with National Homagama,
V ocational Qualification Bandarawela
- (NVQ)
Tamil Medium
Mannar,
Sammanthurai
23 ECS 07 Wood Craftsman 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
(Building) Ratmalana,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Balapitiya,
Full Time Day 01.01.2015. W eerawila,
Six months Embilipitiya,
Ampara
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
24 ECS 41 Wood Craftsman 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
(Furniture) Ratmalana,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Balapitiya,
Full Time Day 01.01.2015. Dambulla,
One year Nuwara-Eliya,
Hasalaka
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2045
25 ECS 01 Electric Motor 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Winder Embilipitiya
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Badulla
Full Time Day 01.01.2015.
Six months
Tamil Mediuam
Jaffna
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
26 ECC 42 Radio, TV and Allied 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Equipment repairer with passes in Mathematics, Science and Ratnapura
Medium Language - in not more than two sittings
Full Time Day
One Year
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
* Course with National 01.01.2015.
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
27 ECS 39 Field Assistant 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects
Sinhala Medium
(Agriculture) with passes in medium language in not more than Embilipitiya,
two sittings Kandy,
Full Time Day Anuradhapura,
Six months 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dambulla,
01.01.2015. Kuliyapitiya
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
Tamil Medium
- (NVQ) Sammanthurai
28 ECS 29 Out - Board 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Motor Mechanic with passes Matara
Full Time Day Tamil Medium
Six months 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Mannar
01.01.2015.
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
29 ECS 41 Survey Field 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Assistant with passes in not more than two sittings Gampaha,
Balapitiya,
Full Time Day Ratnapura,
Three months 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Matale
01.01.2015.
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
30 ECC 43 Industrial Electronic 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Craftsman with passes in Mathematics and medium Embilipitiya,
language - in not more than two sittings Kandy, Ampara,
Full Time Day Polonnaruwa,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Homagama
01.01.2015.
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2046
31 ECS 40 Plant Nursery 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Development Assistant with passes in Mathematics, Science and Kandy,
Medium language - in not more than two sittings Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day Kuliyapitiya,
Six Months 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dambulla
01.01.2015.
* Course with National Tamil Medium
V ocational Qualification Sammanthurai
- (NVQ)
32 ECS 22 Assistant Quantity 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Survey with passes in Mathematics, Science and Ratmalana,
Medium language - in not more than two sittings Gampaha, Galle,
Full Time Day Matara, Weerawila,
Six Months 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Ratnapura, Matale,
01.01.2015. Anuradhapura,
* Course with National Wariyapola,
V ocational Qualification Anamaduwa,
- (NVQ) Kalutara
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Mannar
33 ECS 23 Building Services 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Technician with passes in Mathematics, Science and Medium Maradana,
language - in not more than two sittings Dambulla,
Full Time Day Matale,
Six Months 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Kurunegala
01.01.2015.
* Course with National Tamil Medium
V ocational Qualification Akkaraipattu
- (NVQ)
34 ECS 24 Bar Bender 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Galle,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dehiaththakandiya
Full Time Day 01.01.2015.
Three months
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
35 ECC 44 Fabricator 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
(Metal) Ampara
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2015.
One Year
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2047
36 ECS 30 Three Wheeler 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Mechanic Dehiaththakandiya,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Pathadumbara
Full Time Day 01.01.2015.
Six months
Tamil Medium
Mannar
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
37 ECC 45 Industrial 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Plumber Maradana,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Ratmalana,
Full Time Day 01.01.2015. Beliatta,
One Year Nuwara-Eliya,
Polonnaruwa
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
38 ECC 46 Machinist (CNC 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Milling Machine Operator) with passes in Mathematics and medium Maradana
language in not more than two sittings
Full Time Day or
One Year 2. Should have passed certificate in Machining
Course (NVQ Level 3/4)
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification 3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
- (NVQ) 01.01.2015
Business Studies Courses :
Full Time Courses
01 BSB 03 National Diploma in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Accounting with passes in Mathematics and G . C. E (A/L) Maradana, Galle,
Examination in Two (02) subjects with passes in Kandy, Ampara,
Full Time Day one (01) of Ratnapura
Two Years (i) Accounting
(ii) Combined Maths Tamil Medium
* Course with National (iii) Business Studies Jaffna
V ocational Qualification (iv) Economics
- (NVQ) (v) Business Statistics English Medium
Maradana
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2015.
02 BSC 04 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects
Sinhala Medium
Accounting with passes in Mathematics and Medium Anuradhapura,
Technicians Language in one  sitting. Balapitiya, Beliatta,
Dambulla, Galle,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Hasalaka,
One Year 01.01.2015. Homagama,
Kalutara, Kandy,
* Course with National Kegalle, Kuliyapitiya,
V ocational Qualification – Kurunegala, Maradana,
(NVQ) Matale, Matara,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2048
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Wariyapola,
Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola, Gampaha,
Trincomalee,
Badulla, Ratmalana
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya, Maradana,
Akkaraipattu,
Mannar
03 BSC 06 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
English Medium
Secretarial Practice (English) with passes in Mathematics and Medium Badulla,
Language in not more than two sittings. Should Balapitiya,
Full Time Day have a  Credit pass in English. Batticaloa,
One Year (i) Competency in spoken & written Kalutara, Kandy,
English will be considered. Kuliyapitiya,
Students who (ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test Kurunegala,
successfully complete this if so decided by the authorities. Maradana,
course are eligible to follow (iii) Female candidates are preferred. Warakapola, Jaffna,
the National Diploma in Homagama,
Secretarial Practice Course, 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Gampaha, Galle,
conducted  by the Sri Lanka 01.01.2015. Matara, Beliatta,
Institute of Advanced Kegalle, Matale,
Technical  Education Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
* Course with National Akkaraipattu,
V ocational Qualification Mannar,
– (NVQ) Anuradhapura
04 BSC 13 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting with passes in Mathematics and Medium Ampara,
and Computing-Sinhala Language in not more than two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Beliatta, Dambulla
Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala. Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day Galle, Kalutara,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Kandy,
01.01.2015. Kuliyapitiya,
Maradana,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Pathadumbara,
Trincomalee,
Kegalle, Warakapola.
05 BSC 14 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Tamil Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting with passes in Mathematics and medium Batticaloa,
and Computing-Tamil language in not more than two sittings Maradana,
Should have a Credit pass for Tamil Language. Sammanthurai,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2049
Trincomalee,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Vavuniya, Jaffna,
One Year 01.01.2015. Akkaraipattu,
Mannar
06 BSC 05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
English Medium
Marketing (English) in not more than two sittings with passes in Batticaloa, Galle,
Mathematics, Medium Language and English Kandy, Matara,
Full Time Day Language. Sammanthurai,
One Year Trincomalee,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Akkaraipattu,
01.01.2015. Beliatta,
Warakapola,
Badulla, V avuniya,
Ratnapura
07 MCS 16 Sales Representative/ 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Assistant wtih passes in Mathematics, Medium Languages Ratnapura, Badulla,
and English Language in not more than two Kuliyapitiya
Full Time Day sittings
Three months
Tamil Medium
2. Age should be bewteen 17 and 29 years as on  V avuniya,
* Course with National 01.01.2015 Akkaraipattu
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
08 MCS 18 Store Keeper 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
wtih passes in Mathematics, Medium Matara, Badulla,
Language in not more than two sittings Kuliyapitiya
Full Time Day
Six months 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
 01.01.2015
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
09 MCS 19 Cashier (Super 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Market/General) wtih passes in Mathematics and Medium Matara
Language in not more than two sittings
Full Time Day
Six months 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
 01.01.2015
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
Part Time Courses
10 BSC 04.1 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects
Sinhala Medium
Accounting in not more than two sittings with a pass for Ampara,
Technicians Mathematics and Medium Language. Moneragala,
Kalutara, Beliatta,
Part Time - One Year 2. Age should not be less than 18 years as Matale,
(Restricted to on 01.01.2015. Trincomalee
employees in an office
of a recognized firm,
Tamil Medium
Government Trincomalee,
Department / V avuniya,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2050
Corporation or Local Jaffna,
Authority or any other Akkaraipattu,
recognized Institute.) Sammanthurai.
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- (NVQ)
11 BSC 13.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Shorthand, with passes in Mathematics and Medium Trincomalee
Typewriting and Language in not more than two sittings.
Computing - (Sinhala)
Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala
Part Time One Year
(Restricted to those 2. Age should be less than 17 years as
who are engaged in on 01.01.2015.
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
12 BSC 14.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Tamil Medium
Shorthand, with passes  in Mathematics and Medium Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Typewriting and Language in not more than two sittings Akkaraipattu,
Computing - (Tamil) Sammanthurai,
Should have a Credit Pass for Tamil Trincomalee,
Part Time One Year Language. V avuniya
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
who are engaged in on 01.01.2015.
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
General Studies Courses
Full Time Courses
01 ESC 01 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects
English Medium
English for Commerce, including English in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Industry and Further Anamaduwa,
Education 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Anuradhapura,
01.01.2015. Badulla, Balapitiya,
Full Time Day Bandarawela,
One Year Batticaloa, Beliatta,
Dambulla,
Students who Dehiattakandiya,
successfully complete this Embilipitiya, Galle,
course are eligible to follow Gampaha, Hasalaka,
the National Diploma in Homagama,
English Course, conducted Kalutara, Kandy,
by the Sri Lanka Institute Kegalle,
of Advanced Technical Kuliyapitiya,
Education Kurunegala,
Maradana
Matale, Matara,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2051
Nuwara Eliya,
Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
V avuniya,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Ratmalana, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu
02 MCC 09 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Japanese Medium
Japanese Language in not more than two sittings. Galle,
Anuradhapura
Full Time - Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as
One Year on 01.01.2015.
03 MCC 07 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Korean Medium
Korean Language in not more than two sittings. Galle, Kegalle
Beliatta,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as Warakapola, Badulla,
One Year   on 01.01.2015. Matara, Ampara,
Anuradhapura,
Jaffna, Kandy,
Kurunegala,
Sammanthurai,
Bandarawela,
Moneragala
04 ECC 23 Certificate for Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Application Assistant with passes in Mathematics, Medium Matale,
Language and English Language in not more Anamaduwa,
Full Timd Day than two sittings. Hasalaka
Three Months
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Tamil Medium
* Course with National 01.01.2015. Sammanthurai,
V ocational Qualification - Akkarapattu
(NVQ)
05 ECC 03 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Hardware with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Galle, Kuliyapitiya,
Languages and English Language in not more Balapitiya, Kegalle,
Full Timd Day than two sittings. Kandy,
Six Months Kurunegala, Matara,
2. Should have completed basic Computer Science Dambulla,
* Course with National Course. Anuradhapura,
V ocational Qualification - Matale,
(NVQ) 3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Dehiattakandiya
01.01.2015. Trincomalee,
Kaluthara
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Kurunegala,
Sammanthurai
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2052
06 ECC 04 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Networking with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Galle, Kandy,
Language and English Language in not more than Maradana,
two sittings. Polonnaruwa,
Full Time  Day Kegalle,
Six Months 2. Shou ld have completed Basic Computer Science Embilipitiya,
Course. Kurunegala,
* Course with National Balapitiya,
V ocational Qualification - 3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Bandarawela,
(NVQ) 01.01.2015. Ratnapura,
Pathadumbara,
Matale,
Homagama
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu,
Vavuniya,
Sammanthurai
07 ECC 31 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Graphic Designing with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Kurunegala,
Language and English Language in not more Wariyapola,
than two sittings. Beliatta, Medagama,
Full Time Day Pathadumbara,
Six Months 2. Should have completed basic Computer Polonnaruwa,
Science Course. Anamaduwa
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification - 3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Tamil Medium
(NVQ) 01.01.2015. Akkaraipattu,
Jaffna, Mannar
Part Time Courses
08 ECC 23.1 Certificate for Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Application Assistant with passes in Mathematics, Medium Language Ratnapura, Matale,
and English Language in not more than two Trincomalee,
Part Time 360 hours sittings. W arakapola
* Course with National 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
V ocational Qualification - 01.01.2015
(NVQ)
09 ESC 01.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects in
English Medium
English for Commerce, not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Industry and Further Badulla, Batticaloa,
Education. (Special consideration will be given to those Beliatta,
employed in a supervisory capacity in an Industrial, Dehiattakandiya,
Commercial or any similar establishment or Embilipitiya, Galle,
Part Time - Two Years those who were employed in a similar capacity Kalutara,
at an earlier date and those who may qualify for Kandy, Matale,
promotion after successful completion of the Course). Moneragala,
Matara,
A basic knowledge of English is essential. Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Vavuniya,
01.01.2015. W eerawila,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2053
Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Pathadumbara
10 ECC 03.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Hardware passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle,
and English Language in not more than two sittings.
Part Time 720 hours
2. Should have completed basic Computer Science
* Course with National Course Tamil Medium
V ocational Qualification - Sammanthurai.
(NVQ) 3. Age should not be less than 17 years as
on 01.01.2015.
(Restricted to those
employed in the relevant
field)
11 ECC 04.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Networking passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle, Embilipitiya,
and English Language in not more than two sittings. Matale, Beliatta,
Part Time 720 hours Kegalle
2. Should have completed basic Computer
* Course with National Science Course. Tamil Medium
V ocational Qualification - Sammanthurai.
(NVQ) 3. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2015.
(Restricted to those employed
in the relevant field)
12 ECC 31.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Graphic Designing passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Anamaduwa
and English Language in not more than two sittings.
Part Time 720 hours Tamil Medium
2. Should have completed basic Computer Jaffna
* Course with National Science Course.
V ocational Qualification -
(NVQ) 3. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2015.
(Restricted to those employed
in the relevant field)
Special Courses :
Full Time Courses
01.  BSC 16 Receptionist 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
English Medium
with passes in Mathematics and Medium Language Galle,  Beliatta,
Full Time Day and English Language in not more than two sittings. Maradana, Gampaha,
One Year Should  have a Credit pass in English. Ratnapura,
Anamaduwa
* Course with National (i) Competency in Spoken and Written
V ocational Qualification English will be considered.
- (NVQ)
(ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test
if so decided by the authorities.
(iii) Female candidates are preferred.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2015.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2054
02. ECC 12 Information 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Communication passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Kegalle, Warakapola,
Technology Technician English Language in not more than two sittings. Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Moneragala, Kandy,
Six Months 01.01.2015. Pathadumbara,
Matale, Hasalaka,
* Course with National Beliatta, Rathnapura,
V ocational Qualification Kurunagala,
- (NVQ) Nuwara-Eliya,
Matara, Maradana,
Kalutara, Galle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Anuradhapura,
Trincomalee,
Medagama,
Embilipitiya,
Ratmalana,
Balapitiya,
Weerawila,
Wariyapola,
Dehiattakandiya,
Ampara, Gampaha
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Vavuniya, Mannar,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee.
English Medium
Batticaloa
03. ECC 07 Steward 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Tamil Medium
with passes in Mathematics, Science and Trincomalee
Full Time Day Medium Language in not more than two sittings.
Three Months
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2015.
04. ECC 01 Construction site 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Supervisor with passes in Mathematics, Science and Galle, Maradana,
Medium Language  in not more than two sittings. Ratmalana,
Full Time Day -One Year Homagama, Kalutara,
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on Matara, Beliatta,
* Course with National 01.01.2015. Rathnapura,
V ocational Qualification - Embiliptiya,
(NVQ) W arakapola,
Monaragala, Kandy,
Anuradhapura,
Kurunegala,
Kuliyapitiya,
Dehiattakandiya,
Wariyapola,
Trincomalee,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2055
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Courses
No. are Available  and Medium
Anamaduwa, Matale,
Gampaha, Badulla,
Balapitiya, Weerawila
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Vavuniya, Mannar,
Trincomalee,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai.
Part Time Courses
05. ECC 12.1 Information 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Communication passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Galle, Kegalle,
Technology Technician English Language in not more than two sittings. Warakapola,
Kalutara,
Part Time 720 hours 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Dehiattakandiya,
01.01.2015. Matara, Maradana,
* Course with National Pathadumbara,
V ocational Qualification - Matale, Hasalaka,
(NVQ) Ratnapura,
Weerawila, Beliatta,
(Restricted to those Balapitiya, Ampara,
employed in the relevant Moneragala,
field.) Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Vavuniya, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee.
10–06
–––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  FISHERIES  AND  AQUATIC
RESOURCES  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT FOR
THE POST OF MARINE ENGINEERING ASSISTANT
 (SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE) - GRADE III IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES AND AQUATIC
RESOURCES - 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from Sri Lankan citizens who
have qualified with qualifications specified in this notification to
recruit for the vacancies exist in Nautical Engineering Assistant (Sri
Lanka Technological Service) Grade III of the Department of Fisheries
and Aquatic Resources. As this is a field job only the male applicants
are recruited to the post.
The examination will be held only in selected Districts and relevant
Districts and District numbers are given in the below chart. The
relevant para of the application should be completed according to
this chart. The applied town/towns will not be allowed to change
later. if there will be not adequate applicants for any of the centers
mentioned above, that center will be cancelled and the relevant
applicant will be sent to the next center closer to it. If there will be no
adequate applicants for all the centers or many of the centers even
after that, action will be taken to hold the examination only in
Colombo.
District District No.
Colombo 01
Matara 02
Badulla 03
Rathnapura 04
Kandy 05
Kurunegala 06
Puttalam 07
Anuradhapura 08
V avuniya 09
Jaffna 10
Trincomalle 11
Batticaloa 12

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2056
1. Terms of Service.– The selected candidates will be recruited to
the marine Engineering Assistant (Sri Lanka Technological Service)
Grade III, subject to the terms mentioned in recruitment procedure
MN-3-2006A, approved by Public Services Commission and
prepared in accordance with Public Administration Circular 6/2006
and general terms which control appointment to the public serivce.
This post is permanent and pensionable.
2. Salary Group and Scale.– Salary Code No. : MN-3-2006A.
Salary Scale : Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 -
Rs. 27,885.
3. Education Qualifications :
(a) Having passed 03 subjects in Science Scheme in the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination including 02 subjects from
Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Combined
Mathematics and Physics in one sitting.
(b) Having passed 06 subjects in the G . C. E. (O/L)
examination including credit passes to Sinhala/Tamil/
English languages and Mathematics and another subject
in one sitting.
4. Professional Qualifications :
(i) National Certificate in Higher National Diploma in
Technology offered by the University of Moratuwa or
Hardy Institute, Ampara ;
or
(ii) National Engineering Diploma offered by National
Apprenticeship and Training Authority ;
or
(iii) National Higher Engineering Diploma offered by the
Ministry of Education and Higher Education ;
or
(iv) Technical Diploma offered by the Open University of Sri
Lanka ;
or
(v) Having successfully completed part I of Engineering
Examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of
Engineers ;
or
(vi) Completion of the level 6 of National V ocational
Qualifications (NVQ) relating to the field of employment ;
or
(vii) Having qualified other qualifications which are accepted
by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission
and equaling to the qualifications referred above in every
respect after obtaining the views of the Ministry of Higher
Education and the Institutions by which the above
mentioned certificates were issued.
5. Physical fitness.– The persons selected to the post should be
physically and mentally fit to discharge the duties of the post at any
part of Sri Lanka.
6. Other Qualifications :
(i) Every applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Appilcant should be having good moral characters ;
(iii) The qualifications required for the recruitment to the post
should be completed in every manner to the closing date
mentioned in notification for calling application.
7. Age limit.– Age should be more than 18 years and less than 30
years to the closing date of application.
8. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments are made on the results
of the written examination and a general interview. Number of
candidates similar to the number of vacancies who scored more than
40% for each of the subjects on the basis of highest marks scored at
the written examination will be recruited by calling for an interview :
(a) Competitive examination for the recruitment will be held
only in Sinhala and Tamil Mediums.
(b) An applicant should answer all question papers by applied
language itself and he is not allowed to change the medium
of language in the application, later.
9. Written Examination :
Question Paper Time Total Pass
Marks Marks
1. Intelligence and 01 hr. 100 40%
Aptitudes Test
2. General Test (Technical 02 hrs. 100 40%
and subject oriented
matters)
Question Paper Syllabus
1. Intelligence and This is short question paper which consists
Aptitudes Test of 50 MCQ type and short answer
questions prepared to measure
mathematical skills, problem solving and
logical and analytical ability and General
knowledge of the applicant. All the
questions should be answered.
2. General Test Part I
(Technical and Questions related to Environment,
subject oriented Scientific, Inventions, Science and
matters) International News.
Part II
Questions related to the subject matters.
10. Examination fee.– An examination fee of Rs. 500 could be
paid to any DIstrict/Divisional Secretarial under the Head of Revenue
2013-02-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt
issued to the name of the applicant on payment has to be affixed in

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2057
the square given in the application. Keeping a copy of the receipt
will be useful. Examination fee will not be refunded for any reason.
11. Mode of application.– Applications have to be prepared in A4
size papers according to the specimen given at the end of this
notification. Application should consist of three pages and para 01-
3.1 in the first page and para 3.2 -4.3 in second page and the rest to
the next page. While preparing applications, in applications with a
Sinhala title should be indicated in English Language and in the
application with a Tamil title the title should be indicated in English
Language in addition to Tamil Language.
Applicants who are already in the Government/Provincial Public
Service must forward the application through Head of their respective
Department/Institution. Applications should not address to the
personal name of the Director General of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources or personal name of any other officer.
Application, duly prepared according to the specimen at the end
of this notification sohuld be sent by registered post to reach
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization or Foreign
Examinations Branch. Examinations Department of Sri Lanka,
P. O. Box 1503, Colombo on or before 24.10.2014. The heading
"Open Competitive Examination to Recruit for Marine Engineering
Assistant (Sri Lanka Technological Service) Grade III of the
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources 2014" has to be
indicated in the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
Applications which do not conform to the requirements stipulated
in this notification or incomplete or received late will be rejected and
such applicants will not be informed. Receipt of the application will
not be acknowledged and complains relevant to an application or
relevant letter lost in post will not be considered. Therefore it is
applicant's responsibility to send application on or before the
stipulated date.
12. Entering for examination :
(a) Admissions will be issued to all applicants who had sent
duly perfected applications by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. Department of Examinations will publish
a paper notice immediately after issuance of admissions
to applicants. If admissions have not received after 2-3
days of this notice it should be informed to the Department
of Examinations as mentioned thereof. You are informed
to forward your inquires to the Department of
Examinations with a copy of the application, receipt
obtained by paying the examination fee and receipt
obtained at sending the application through registered
post mentioning the name of the examination and your
full name, address and NIC Number. If applicant lives
outside Colombo, it is more fruitful to inquire with request
letter mentioning a Fax Number to fax a copy of the
admission to the applicant. Candidate who sits for the
Examination should produce application with duly attest
signature to the Examiner in charge of the Examination.
Candidates who do not produce their admissions will not
be permitted to appear for the Examination.
(b) A candidate should sit for the examination at the
Examination Centre prescribe to him, and all the candidates
should hand over the relevant admission to the Examiner
in charge of the Examination on the first day of the
Examination. A code of rules to be followed by candidates
is pubilshed in this notice.
(c) Issuance of admissions to the candidate should not be
considered that he/she has fulfilled required qualifications
for him/her to appear in the examination.
(d) You shall liable to any punishment prescribed by the
Commissioner General of examinations if violation of
rules, for the examination is observed.
13. Identity of the candidate.– A candidate should prove his identity
to the satisfaction of examiner in charge of the examination center for
all subjects of the examination. Any of the following documents
should be produced to conform the identity of the candidate :
(i) A valid NIC issued by the Department of Registration of
Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.
14. Selection for the appointment.– Number of candidates similar
to the number of vacancies on the basis of highest marks from the
candidates who have scored more than 40% for each subject at the
written examination will be recruited by calling for a General Interview.
14.1 Issuance of results.– All the candidates will be informed
the results of the examination personally or published
at the website 
www.results.exam.gov .lk by the
Commissioner General of Examinations and addition to
handing over the Results Sheet to the "Secretary, Public
Services Commission".
15. Furnish of false details.– In case of revealing disquailfication
of an applicant her/his candidature could be cancelled before the
examination or during the examination or after the examination or at
any time. If it reveals that a candidate has furnished false information
knowingly or any special detail is purposely concealed by him, he
shall dismissed by the Government Service.
Public Services Commission will take decisions on any regulation
not mentioned in this notification.
If the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of the notifications are
non-consistence then the Sinhala version will be accepted.
By order of Director General, Combined Services,
Director General,
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources.
Maligawatte,
Colombo 10,
26th September, 2014.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2058
ëjr yd c,c iïm;a fomd¾;fïka;=fõ kdúl bxðfkare iyldr III fY%aKsh ^Y%S ,xld ;dCIK fiajh&
i|yd n|jd .ekSfï ;r. úNd.h - 2014
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF THE POST OF MARINE ENGINEERING ASSISTANT (SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE) GRADE III OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES - 2014
Index No. :
For official use only
Medium of the Examination : Town to be presented for the examination :
Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, Town Town No.
(Write the relevant No. inside the cage) First selection
The medium is not allowed to change later Second selection
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Letters) Eg. : Mr. SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Letters)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identify Card No. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Letters)
2.2 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Official Address :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block letters)
2.4 Official Address :–––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.5 Address to send the application :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Letters)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1 Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.2 Marital Status : Married - 1 unmarried - 2
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 24.10.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.5 Telephone Number :
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (A/L) :
Index No. :–––––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––––.
Subject Pass

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2059
4.2 G . C. E. (O/L)
Index No. :–––––––––––––.  Year :–––––––––––––.
Subject Pass
4.3 Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
5.0 Eamination fee :
(i) Receipt No. :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Date :–––––––––––––.
(iii) The office, which the payment was made :–––––––––––.
(iv) Amount Paid : Rs. :–––––––––––––.
Affix the original copy of the receipt here.
Declaration of the applicant
I hereby declare that the information furnished by me in this
application is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and the
receipt bearing No. .................... dated ................. obtained by paying
examination fee has been affixed to this application. In case it is
revealed that I am disqualified according to the rules and regulations
of this examination before the examination or after the examination I
agree to accept any decision taken to cancel my candidature. Further,
I declare that I will liable to any law and regulation imposed by the
Director General of Examinations regarding the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Department
(Only for candidates already in Government Service/Provincial
Government Service)
I hereby certify the applicant Mr./Mrs./Ms .......................... ( a)
has earned all the salary increments entitled to him for the date
........................ and ( b) had not be liable to any disciplinary
punishment except a warning.
I certify that information given in this application are true and
correct and the receipt received by paying the prescribed examination
fee has been fixed here.
If this officer is selected to the post he/she could be immediately
released from the present post.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of the
Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10–132
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
First Efficiency bar Examination for Entrepreneurship
Development Training Officers of the Small Enterprises
Development Division - 2014
AN examination for the First Efficiency Bar for the Entrepreneurship
Development Training Officers of the Small Enterprises
Development Division of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills
Development will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner General
of the Examinations on behalf of this Ministry.
The applications are called as per the following notification.
02. Examination Procedure :
(a) This examination consists of 3 question papers. The
syllabuses relevant to each paper are as follows.
(b) The total marks for each subject is 100 from subjects 01
to 03 and the minimum pass mark is 40, for each subject.
(c) This examination will be conducted in Sinhala and Tamil
mediums. Candidates are not allowed to change the
medium applied for.
(d) it is needed to obtain 30 marks out of 75 marks in the
written test for the subject of English and 10 marks out of
25 marks in oral test.
(e) Candidates can offer the 03 subjects once or several times.
(f) Examination fee .– The candidates appearing for
examination for the first time need not to pay the
examination fees. If it is not for the first time, the
examination fees will be charged as mentioned below :
For the whole examination Rs. 500
Per Subject Rs. 200
This examination fee should be paid in cash at any District or
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt received in the
name of applicant should be affixed by one margin in the relevant
cage of the application.
03. Question papers and the syllabuses relevant to each paper.
Question paper 1 (Time - 03 hours)
(I)Financial Regulations (Subject No. -  01)
(i) Consolidated Fund.
(ii) Units of Budget Classification.
(iii) Recurrent Expenditure, Capital Expenditure.
(iv) Virement Procedure.
(v) Supervision by the Chief Accounting Officers.
(vi) Acco unting Officers and Accounting Officers of Public
Revenue.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2060
(vii) Responsibilities of Chief Accounting Officers.
(viii) Duties and Responsibilities of Accounting Officers on
Public Revenue.
(ix) Supervision and control by Treasury.
(x) Executive powers of the Treasury as a Department.
(xi) Internal Audit.
(xii) Delegation of duties on financial control.
(a) Expenditure ( b) Income
(xiii) Audit quarries.
(xiv) Payment procedure.
(xv) Board of Survey.
(xvi) Procedures on supplies and obtaining services.
Question Paper 2 (Time - 03 hours)
(II) Establishment Code and Office Procedure. (Subject No. 02)
A question paper that examines the knowledge on Chapter
No. I, II, III, IV , VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIV , XV , XXII,
XXIV, XXV , XXVII of the part I and Chapter No. XLVII
of the part II of the Establishment Code and the Office
Procedures and field organizing will be tested.
Question Paper 3 (Times - 03 hours)
(III) English - (Subject No. 03)
(a) Written Test
(b) Oral Test
(1) Content :
Written Examination (3 hours)
(a) Grammar : The following aeras will be tested :-
(i) The verb form of all principal tenses, of English e. g. :
The present Simple Tense, The Simple Past, The
Future, The Present Perfect etc.
(ii) Nouns, Countable, Uncountable.
(iii) Pronouns
(iv) Adjectives Degrees of Comparison.
(v) Adverbs of Frequency, Word order, phrases and
sentences.
(vi) Prepositions
(vii) Determiners
(viii) Question Words
(ix) Modal Auxiliaries, Can, Could, May, Might, Should,
Must, Ought.
(x) The Definite Article
(xi) Cardinals/Ordinals
(xii) The Passive Construction
(xiii) Relative Clauses
(xiv) If Clauses
(xv) Reported Speech
(xvi) There is/there are
(xvii) Have/has
(b) V ocabulary tested will be that of General Modern English
with special emphasis on the following field of
management Administration and Social and Economics
Development.
(c) Writing - Ability to write essays, Department Reports,
Official Letters.
Oral Examination (15 minutes)
(a) Speech
(b) Listening Comprehension
(c) Reading
(2) Scheme of Examination :
1. Written Examination - There will be one paper of 3 hrs.
duration. (75% Marks)
2. Oral Examination
 - 15 minutes duration (25% Marks)
04. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared as per specimen
application given at the end of this notification in an A4
size paper using both sides of the paper. In such a manner
that Heading Numbers 01 to 04 appear on the first page
and the rest on the second page. The relevant information
should be filled in correctly by his/her own handwriting.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and
that have not been filled properly will be rejected without
notice. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
application with you. The applications that do not
comply with the specimen application given in the notice
will be rejected. Please indicate the title of the examination
appearing the specimen in English as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil application forms.
(b) The duly filled applications should be sent by registered
post to reach the following address before 03.11.2014.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations,
(Organization and Foreign Examination Branch),
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
(c) The name of the examination "First Efficiency Bar
Examination for Entrepreneurship Development Training
Officers" should be clearly indicated on the top left hand
corner of the envelope containing the application.
Applications received after the closing date will be
rejected.
(d) Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledge a notice
shall be published in the newspapers by the
Commissioner General of Examinations as soon as

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2061
admission cards are issued to applicants. If the admission
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to inform the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. When informing your full name,
address, NIC and the name of the examination shall be
indicated. It would be advisable for candidates outside
Colombo to fax a letter of request along with a fax number
to the candidate to the Department of Examination of Sri
Lanka through the fax number mentioned in the
notification for sending a copy of the admission. When
inquiring so, it would be advisable to keep, the photocopy
of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to payment
of examination fee and the receipt of registration of
application to furnish where it is necessary.
05. Sitting for the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all candidates who have sent their
applications. Candidates should sit for the examinations
at the examination center assigned to them. Candidates
should get their signature on the admission card attested
in advance surrender to the supervisor of the examination
hall. Candidates who fail to produce the admission and
will not be permitted to sit for the examination. The
rules and regulations that have to be followed by the
candidate are given in this Gazette notification.
Note.– Issuing of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination. All candidates are
bound to comply with the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations with
regard to the conducting of this examination. Further,
candidates will be subjected to the punishment imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations for
violations of these rules and regulations.
(b) Identity of the candidates. Candidates should prove their
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this propose
any of the following documents will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) V alid passport.
B. W
IJAY ARATNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and
Skills Development.
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development,
"Nipunatha Piyasa",
No. 354/2,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
03rd October, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
For Office use only
F
IRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP
DEVELOPMENT TRAINIGN OFFICERS OF THE SMALL ENTERPRISES
DEVELOPMENT DIVISION OF THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS AND
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT - 2014
Medium in which you sit for the Examination :
(Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with Initials :–––––––––––––.
(Indicate the Initials at the end of the Name)
(In English block capital letters)
E. g.– GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
1.2 Name in Full :–––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
1.3 Name in Full :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
02. 2.1 Official Address :–––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
2.2 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
2.3 Sex :
(Female - 1,  Male - 0)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
03. Subject offered in the Examination :
1. ................................ Subject No.
2. ................................ Subject No.
3. ................................ Subject No.
04. The relevant attempt Number :–––––––––––––.
05. Examination fee :
(i) Amount which you have paid Rs. :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the office which you have paid :–––––––––––.
(iii) Date when you have paid :–––––––––––––.
(iv) Receipt Number :–––––––––––––.
If you have paid the examination fee, according to paragraph
No. 02 (f) of the Gazette notification, the receipt should be
affixed here. It will be advisable to keep a copy of the
receipt with you.

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2062
I, declare that the above information is accurate Further ; I shall
agree to abide by the rule and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of the Examination on conducting the examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................., who
submits this application, Placed his/her signature in my presence
and the he/she is qualified to sit for the relevant Efficiency Bar
Examination. Further, I certify that he/she is sitting for this
examination for the first time/paid the examination fee and affixed
the relevant receipt.
––––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––. Signature.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Deisgnation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
10–230
––––––––––––––––––
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  GRADE  III  OF  PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE - 2013(2014)
REVISIONS are made to, sub-section (iii) of paragraph 8.0 eligibility,
section (C) of paragraph 9.0. Applications, date fo forward
applications to the Department Heads of paragraph 10.0 of the
Gazette notification "Limited Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to Grade III of Public Management Assistants' Service
- 2013(2014)" published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist
Repubilc of Sri Lanka No. 1,878 dated 29" August 2014 and section
(iii) of paragraph 8.0 eligibility of the corrected Gazette notification
"Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of
Public Management Assistants' Service - 2013(2014)" published in
the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,879
dated 05th October 2014 as per the decision of the Public Service
Commission.
8.0 Eligibility :
(iii) Candidates should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects
(06) including Language/Literature and Arithmetic/Pure
Mathematics/Elementary Mathematics/Commercial
Arithmetic.
(vi) All qualifications prescribed for recruitment to the post
shall be completed as at 10th of October 2014.
9.0 Applications :
(c) The application form must be completed correctly and
legibly in the candidates own handwriting and sent by
registered post to reach the,
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
On or before 10.10.2014 through the Heads of Departments
in which the candidates are serving.
10.0 Candidates are requestd to forward their applications to the
Heads of their Departments well in advance enabling them to forward
the applications to the Commissioner General of Examinations on or
before 10.10.2014.
* The closing date will be extended up to 10th of October
2014 due to this amendment.
* The date mentioned in the sub-section 4.12 and part 3, 5,
7 of the certificate of the Head of the Department of
specimen application form, of the Gazette notification is
revised as 10.10.2014 due to this amendment.
* The candidates who have already applied are hereby
informed not to make fresh application in response to
this revision.
* The other provisions laid down in the Gazette notification
shall remain effective.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Service.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
18th of September, 2014.
10–284
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  ENVIRONMENT  AND  RENEWABLE
ENERGY
Forest  Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITEMNT TO THE POSTS OF FOREST FIELD
ASSISTANT (OPEN) - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who possess
qualifications for recruitment to the Post of Forest Field Assistant in
the Forest Department.

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2063
01. Salary Scale :
(i) According to PL : 2-2006-A. According to Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006(IV) - Rs. 12,210 -
10x130 -10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,600.
02. General Terms of Engagements and Service Conditions :
(i) This appointment is permanent and pensionable. The
selected candidates should make contribution to the
Widow/Widower and Orphan's Pension Scheme.
(ii) The appointment will be subjected to a probation period
of three (03) years.
(iii) The selected candidates should prepare to serve in any
part of the island under any situations.
(iv) The selected candidates will have to assist higher Officer
for arduous and risky duties such as forest protection,
investigations on forest crimes, arresting criminals and
forest produce and produce them before courts etc. These
officers will have to involve in these activities personally
even on Public holidays and nights.
Because of the hard and risky nature of the duty of Forest
Field Assistant, a woman may face it practically difficult
to involve in such activities.
(v) General conditions of service governing appointments in
the Public Service mentioned at the beginning of the
paragraph (11a) of the gazette Notification are also
applicable.
(vi) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. No candidates will be allowed to change the medium
of language indicated in the application.
03. Age Limit.– Applicants should not be less than 18 years and
not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of applications.
Accordingly, those who possess the data of birth on 31.10.1996 or
before and 31.10.1969 or after are eligible to apply. The upper age
limit will not apply to these who are already in Public Service and
Provincial Public Service.
04. Educations and other qualifications.– All applicants should
have completed following qualifications satisfactorily :
(i) Should pass the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination in six (6) subjects at least
with two credit passes in not more than two sittings.
(ii) The applicants who passes a skills certificate of National
V ocational Quailfication Level - 2(N. V . Q.). Which will
be decided by the Conservator General of forests as
relevant to the post, will be more benefitted.
(iii) Height of the male applicants should not be less than 5
feet 02 inches and the chest should not be less than 32
inches.
(iv) Minimum height of the female applicants should be of
05 feet.
(v) The applicants should possess a sound character.
(vi) Should possess physical and mental fitness to serve in
any part of the island under any situation.
05. Method of Recruitment :
(i) The applicants who have qualifications under above
paragrpah 04 will be summoned for an interview after a
written test. In this case, twice the number of candidates
to be recruited will summon for the interview in the
descending order of such marks. Recruitment will be
made in the descending order of the total marks obtained
from the written test and the interview based on the
available/actual number of vacancies. Results will be
notified to all the applicants personally by the
Commissioner General of Examinations by post or
through the web site : www.results.exams.gov.lk.
(ii) When there are several applicants who scored euqal marks
for the available/actual last vacancy as mentioned above
paragrapah 5.1 only the applicants who scored higher
marks will be recruited.
(iii) The applicants selected based on the qualifications
mentioned under above 5.1, will have to sit for the
Dendrology Test (Preliminary Level) within a period of
03 years and after passing that test and completions of
03 years satisfactory service, will be confirmed in the
post.
(iv) The officer recruited as such will have to follow
theoretical and practical training course conducted for
Forest Field Assistants within a period of 03 years and
pass the examination. Then these officer will be able to
get N. V. Q. - 4 certificate and will be employed in
permanent service.
06. Syllabus.– The written examination consist of two question
papers :
(i) Intelligence Test :
Durations  - 01 hour, Marks - 100
There are 50 questions in the form of multiple - choice
and short answers in order to test the candidate's rational
and analytical skills and to test the decision making ability.
The candidate shall have to answer all the questions.
(ii) Technical Question Paper :
Durations - 2 hours, Marks - 100
This paper will assess the knowledge on forest resource
and its effects on organisms, the ecology of Sri Lanka
Geographical importance. Agricultural Economy of Sri
Lanka, important information on Ministry of
Environment and Renewable Energy - Forest Department

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2064
and their mission and objectives. Natural Environment,
forest and vegetations, importance on the close relations
ship between forest and people, basic knowledge on
geography (shape of the earth, geographical features) the
candidates shall have to answer all the questions.
(iii) The applicants should sit for both these questions papers
in one medium of language.
07. Applications and other information :
(i) The applications should be in conformity with the
specimen appended at the end of this notice. It should be
prepared on papers sized 21 x 29cm (A4 size) using
both sides by the applicants and Nos. 1-8 in the specimen
applications should be included in page 01 and the rest in
page 02. The application should be completed in the
medium of language in which the candidate is eligible to
sit for the examinations. The applications should be send
under the registered cover to the Commissioner General
of Examination, Organizational and Foreign Examination
Branch, Department of Examination, P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo. On or before 31.10.2014 “Recruitment to the
post of Forest Field Assistant (Open) - 2014xz” should
be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the
envelope. (Applications should not be sent to any
personal name of to any other address).
(ii) Incompelte and delayed applications will be rejected
without prior notice.
(iii) No complaints regarding lost applications inthe post
will be entertained.
(iv) The signature of the applicants should be attested by a
Principal of a Government School or Justice of Peace or
Commissioned Officer in the Army, Navy, Afir Force or
Police Service holding a Gazetted post or an Officer holding
a staff grade permanent post in Public Service or
Provincial Public Servie or the Grama Niladhari of the
residential area.
(v) The application which are not in conformity with this
notice will be rejected.
(vi) The officers in the public service should send their
applications through the respective heads of their
Department. It has to be mentioned that if this officer
has been selected he could be released from his present
post immediately.
(vii) Receipt of the application will not be acknowledged.
08. Examination Fees :
(i) Examination fee is Rs. 400. The receipt obtained on
payment of this fee to any post office or sub post office
under the revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations should be pasted
in the relevant place given in the application (Retaining a
photocopy of the receipt with the applicant will be
useful).
(ii) The fee is not to refundable and not be transferable to
any other examination.
09. The applicant must produce one or all of the document given
below when required :
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Educational Certificates,
(iii) A certificate obtained from Grama Niladhari recently
(wtih countersign of the Divisional Secretary),
(iv) Two character certificates,
(v) Other relevant certificates.
Note.– Documents/certificates or photocopies of them should
not be sent along with the application.
10. (i) The examination centers and Admissions Cards. The
examination will be held at the examinations centers in towns
mentioned in Schedule 1 - of this notice. The town where the candidate
wishes to sit for the examinations and its number should be mentioned
as first and second choice at the Head of the application.
(i) When there are no sufficient applicants to hold the
examination in a particular town, those applicants will
be directed to the town mentioned as their second choice
or to another closer by town. Further, when there are no
sufficient applicants to hold the examination in all
proposed towns or majority the Commissioner General
of Examination will take necessary actions to hold the
examination in Colombo.
(ii) Admission card will be issued to the candidates who are
within the age limit mentioned in the notice and have
sent duly perfected application forms along with the
receipt obtained after paying examination fee by the
Commissioner General of Examination. A notice in this
regard will be published in newspaper by the Department
of Examination. Sri Lanka as soon as the admission cards
were issued. If the candidate has not received the
admission card at least before 05 days from the date on
which the examination to be held as per the notice, he/
she should inquire from the Department of Examination.
During these inquiries the applicant should mention the
name of the examination applied full name, national
identity card number and address accurately. It may be
mroe effective to submit a fax number if any, along with
the other information to obtain a copy of the admission
card if you are outside Colombo. It will be benefitted if
you can produce a copy of the application, a copy of the
receipt obtained after paying examination fee and the
receipt obtained after sending the application by
registered post during inquiries.

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2065
(iii) The issue of an admission card to a candidates does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit for the examination and the admission
card in which his/her signature has been duly attested
should be submitted to the Head of Examination centre
on the very first day.
(iv) The candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination
regarding the conduct of the examination and issue of
results. These who violate such rules and regulations
will be subjected to any punishment determined by the
Commissioner General of Examination.
11. Identity of the candidate.– A candidate must prove identity to
the satisfaction of the invigilator and one of the following documents
will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
12. Furnishing false Information.– If the candidate is found to be
ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to
or during or after examination. If any of the particulars furnished by
a candidate who is in public service, is found to be false with his
knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed any important fact, he
will be liable to dismissal from public service.
13. Actions will be taken as per the decisions of the Conservator
General of Forests with regards to the matters that have not been
mentioned in this notice.
Conservator General of Forests.
Forest Department,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
16th September, 2014.
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUTIMENT TO THE POST OF
FOREST FIELD ASSISTANTS OF THE FOREST DEPARTMENT - 2014
Town in which it is expected to sit for the examination :
Town No. of the Town
1st Choice
2nd Choice
(Complete as per Schedule - 1)
01. Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
02. (i) Name with initials incating initials at the end (In block
capitals) :–––––––––––––.
(Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.)
(ii) Full name (In block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
03. (i) Address to which admission card to be posted (In block
capitals) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Permanent address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
04. Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. (i) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age at 31.10.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Citizenship :
By descent - 1
By Registration - 2
(Wrtie the relevant number in the cage)
08. Telephone Number :
09. Physical Fitness :
(i) Height :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Chest :–––––––––––––. inches
(Inot applicable for female applicants)
10. Educational Qualifications :
(i) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) :
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt
Year :––––––. Index No. :––––––.    Year :––––––. Index No. :––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2066
11. Other Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
12. Professional/Other Qualification :–––––––––––––.
13. (i) The Post Office to which the examination fee was paid :
–––––––––––––.
(ii) Numbe of the cash receipt and date :–––––––––––––.
Please affix the cash receipt here
14. (i) Have you ever been convicted for any offence by a Court
of Law ? Yes/No :–––––––––––––.
(ii) If yes, give details :–––––––––––––.
15. If you are already employed, give particulars :
(i) Institute :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Date of first appointment :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Designation :–––––––––––––.
(iv) Salary :–––––––––––––.
16. Names and address of two non related referees :
(i) –––––––––––––.
(ii) –––––––––––––.
17. Declaration of the applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
given in the application are found to be incorrect prior to my selection,
I am liable to be disqualified and if it is found after the selections, I
am liable to be dismissed without any compensation. Further I hereby
declare that I will be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examination and issue of results.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
18. Attestment of the applicant's signature :
I do hereby certify that applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .........................
is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature before
me on ................. 2014.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
19. If the applicant is in Public/Provincial Public Service, the relevant
Head of the Institution should complete the following :
I hereby certify that applicant Mr./Ms ............................ is serving
in this Ministry/Department/Office as a ........................... holding a
permanent/temporary post and the particulars furnished by him/her
are true and correct. He/She can be released/cannot be released from
the present post if he/she is selected for the above post.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department or
an Officer Authorized by him.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
(Placed the rubber stamp)
Date :–––––––––––––.
(Cut the unnecessary words)
(No docment or a copy of it should be annexed other than the receits
obtained after paying examination fee)
SCHEDULE I
Town and the Number of Towns in which Examination Centers
are to be established.
Town Number of the Town
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Mulative 13
Kilinochchi 14
Madakalapuwa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
10–214

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2067
PUBLIC  SERVICES  COMMISSION
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT FOR
THE POST OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (DISTRICT)
GRADE III OF EXECUTIVE GRADE OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES - 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited to recruit for the 05 vacancies
existing in the Post of Assistant Director (District) Grade III of
Executive Grade at the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources by order of the Public Services Commission. Applications
prepared according to the specimen application form given at the
end of this notification should be sent by registered post to reach the
"Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations Sri Lanka,
P. O . Box 1503, Colombo" on or before the date stipulated below.
The heading "Open Competitive Examination to recruit for the Post
of Assistant Director (District) Grade III of Executive Grade of the
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources - 2014" has to be
clearly indicated in the top left hand corner of the envelope.
(a) Closing date for calling applications is 31.10.2014.
Note.– Complaints regarding any letter lost in post or received
late will not be considered. Any loss occurred due to
delaying application to the last date should be borne by
the applicants themselves.
2.0 Method of Recruitment :
Recruitments are done according to the results of a written
examination and structured interview.
Five times the number of candidates similar to the number of
recruitments from the candidates who scored 40% or more for all the
question papers for a written examination conducted by an institute
approved by the Commissioner General of Examinations or Public
Services Commission will be called for the structured interview.
Marks will be given at the structured interview according to a
marking scheme approved by the Public Services Commission by an
interview board approved by the same.
Qualified candidates who scored higher total marks at written
examination and structured interview will be recruited to the post by
the Public Services Commission on merit basis.
Number  of recruitments and the effective date of the appointment
will be decided as per the order of the Public Services Commission.
3.0 Terms and Conditions of the Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to Widow/Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) The officers appointed to this post are liable to three (03)
year probation period and shold pass the Efficiency Bar
Examination within this three (03) year period.
(iii) Language proficiency should be obtained in accordance
with the Government Policies within 05 years from the
date of appointment according to the provisions of Public
Administration Circular No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014
and other relevant circulars.
(iv) Shold be liable to the Procedural Rules of the Public
Services Commission, Establishments Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial
Regulations of the Government and other regulations
issued by the Department.
4.0 Salary Scale :
Monthly Salary Scale of SL-1-2006 (Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -
8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555) according to the Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006 is entitled to the
post.
5.0 Qualifications :
5.1 Educational Qualifications :
Should have obtained a degree from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission with
any one of the subjects of Zoology, Biology, Marine
Biology, Fish Biology.
5.2 Professional Qualifications .– Will be considered as a
special qualification.
5.3 Experience.– Will be considered as a special qualification.
5.4 Physical Fitness :
(i) All the candidates should be fit to work in any part of
Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should be mentally and physically fit to discharge
duties of the post.
5.5 Other Qualifications :
(i) Every applicant should be a Citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Applicant should have Good Moral Character.
(iii) The qualifications required for the recruitment to the post
should be completed in every manner before the closing
date mentioned in Notification/ Gazette for calling
application.
6.0 Age limit :
6.1 Minimum limit : not less than 21 years
6.2 Maximum limit : not more than 35 years
7.0 Written Examination :
7.1 Written examination consists of the following subjects
will be conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations :
Subjects Duration Total Marks Pass Marks
1. Aptitude Test 01 hr. 100 40%
2. Comprehension 1 1/2 hr. 100 40%
3. General Knowledge 01 hr. 100 40%

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2068
7.2 Syllabus :
Question Paper Syllabus
Aptitude Test This question paper is prepared to measure
the logical and analytical ability and
intelligence of the candidate. This consists
of 50 MCQ and short answer questions of
mathematical problems and environment
related matters. All the questions should be
answered.
Coprehension This is a question paper prepared to measure
analytical knowledge by understanding article
on recent social background or minutes of a
discussion and essay/summary writing
ability. All the questions should be answered.
General knowledgeThis question paper consists of 50 MCQ and
short answer questions on specific matters
related to financial, economical, political,
international relations, management, science
and technology, education, sports, social and
cultural fields and specially basic knoweldge
on local and international fisheries matters.
All the questions should be answered.
7.3 Structured Interview :
Five (05) times the number of candidates similar to the
number of candidates to be recruited, among the candidates
who scores 40% or more marks for each subject at the
written examination will be called for the structured
interview on merit basis. The date for the structured
interview will be decided by the Secretary. Marks will be
given at the interview conducted by an interview board
appointed by the Public Services Commission.
Note.– Calling for the structured interview does not
confirm that he/she has fulfilled the requirements for
appointment :
Marking Criteria Maximum
Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 30
Professional Qualifications 10
Experience 25
Computer literacy 15
Language Proficiency 15
Competencies shown at the interview 05
Total 100
7.4 Examination Results.– Final report of results on the skills
basis considering the merit order of the total marks
obtained at the a written examination and the interview
will be furnished by the Commissioner General of
Examinations after handing over the marks obtained at
the structured interview by the Public Services
Commission to the Commissioner General of
Examinations. Results will be personally informed to the
candidates by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
8.0 Terms and conditions of the examination :
(i) Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media and candidates can sit the examination in one of
these languages. All the question papers should be
answered in the same language and the medium of the
Examination mentioned in the application will not be
allowed to change. All the candidates should sit for the all
three (03) question papers.
(ii) An examination fee of Rs. 1,000 could be paid to any
post office or sub post office under the Head of Revenue
2013-02-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations.
The receipt issued to the name of the applicant on payment
has to be affixed in the cage given in the application by an
edge of the receipt. Keeping a copy of the receipt will be
useful.
(iii) Examination fee paid for the examination will not be
refunded or transferred for any other examination for any
reason.
(iv) Date for the examination which is held in Colombo will be
informed later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected and will not be
informed :
Note.– Candidates are not permitted to enter the examination
centre without an admission card. Only the admission
cards certified for the signature of the candidate will be
provided to the examiner in charge.
Issuing an admission card to the candidate does not confirm
that he/she has fulfilled all the requirements to sit for
the Examination.
(vi) Applications have to be prepared in 22-29cm size A4
papers using both sides of the paper. Application should
be prepared as heading 1.1-2.6 in the first page and heading
3.1- 4.3 in second page and the rest in the next pages and
should be filled with the own hand writing of the
candidate. While preparing applications, in applications
with a Sinhala title the title should be indicated in English
Language and in the application with a Tamil title the title
should be indicated in English Language in addition to
Tamil language. Applications which are not prepared
according to the specimen application will be rejected and
will not be informed. Keeping a copy of the application
will be useful. Further informed that the candidate should
check that the conformity of the application with the
specimen application and applications which are not
incompliance with the specimen application and
applications which are not incompliance with the specimen
application will be rejected and will not be informed.

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2069
(vii) Receipt of the application will not be acknowledged and
the Department of Examinations will publish a paper
notice immediately after issuance of admissions to
applicants. If admissions have not been received after
2-3 days of this notice it should be informed to the
Department of Examinations as mentioned thereof. You
are informed to forward inquiries to the Department of
Examinations mentioning your full name, address, NIC
number of the applicant and the name of the examination.
If applicant lives outside Colombo, it is more fruitful to
inquire with a request letter mentioning a fax number to
fax a copy of the admission to the applicant by 011-
2784232. It will be more useful to keep the copy of the
application copy of the receipt obtained by payment of
the examination fee and receipt obtaned at sending the
application through registered post to produce when
requested in such inquiries.
(viii) Commissioner General of Examinations has the right to
postpone or cancel the examination on approval of the
Public Services Commission.
(ix) Candidates are liable to rules and conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations. He/She shall
be liable to any punishment prescribed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations if violation of
ruels, for the examination is observed.
9.0 Identity of the candidate.– A candidate should prove his identity
to the satisfaction of the examiner in charge of the examination centre
for all subjects of the examination. Any of the following documents
should be produced to confirm the identity of the candidate.
(i) A valid NIC issued by the Department of Registration of
Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.
10.0 Matters to be considered :
(a) Any document or a copy of that document should not be
attached to the application.
(b) Applications of applicants who failed to produce
documents when requested will not be considered.
Applicants who are already in the Government/Provincial Public
Service must forward the application through the Head of their
respective Department/Institution. It is compulsory to attest the
signature of all the applicants. Candidates who have applied for the
examination through their institute should attest his/her signature by
their respective Head of the Department. Signature of the other
applicants has to be attested by a Principal of a Government School/
retired principal, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of Peace,
Commissioner of Oath, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, an
authorized officer of Army, Navy or Air Force or by a permanent
staff officer in public service or Provincial Public Service drawing an
annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or above or a priest of a temple or any
religions priest.
11.0 Punishment for providing false information .– In case of
revealing disqualification of an applicant her/his candidature could
be cancelled before the examination or during the examination or after
the examination or at any time. If it reveals that a candidate has
furnished false information knowingly or any special detail is
purposely concealed by him, he shall be dismissed from the
Government Service.
12.0 This post should liable to the conditions of procedural Rules
of the Public Services Commission, Circulars issued at time to time
relevant to the Public Service, Service Minute of the Grade III of
Executive Grade and amendments to it.
13.0 Public Services Commission will take decisions on any
condition not mentioned in this notification.
14.0 If the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of the notifications
are non-consistent then the Sinhala version will be accepted.
By order of the Public Services Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources Development.
Maligawatta,
Colombo 10,
18th September, 2014.
ëjr yd c,c iïm;a fomd¾;fïka;=fõ úOdhl ks,Or .Kfha
 III fY%aKsfha iyldr wOHCI ^Èia;%sla&
;k;=rg n|jd .ekSu i|yd jk újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2014
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (DISTRICT) GRADE III OF EXECUTIVE GRADE OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES - 2014
Index No. :
For officer use only
Medium of the Examination :
Sinhala - 2,  Tamil - 3,  English - 4
(Write the relevant No. in the cage)
Medium of examination will not be allowed to change later.
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name in full (In English block letters) :––––––––––.
(Eg. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE BUDDHIKA
SAMPATH KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
1.2 Surname with initials at the end of the name (in English
block letters) :––––––––––.
(Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA H. M. B. S. K.)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(English/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2070
1.5 Sex :
Female - 1 Male - 0
(Write relevant No. in the cage)
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
2.4 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.5 Address to send the Admission card  :––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
2.6 Telephone No. :
3.0 3.1 Marital Status :
Married - 1 Unmarried - 2
(Write the relevant No. at the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 31.10.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Educational and Professional Qualifications :
4.1 Basic Degree Qualification :
4.1.1 Degree :––––––––––––.
4.1.2 Subjects :––––––––––––.
4.1.3 Year :––––––––––––.
4.1.4 University :––––––––––––.
4.2 Post Graduate Qualifications :
Degree Relevant Class Y ear University
Subject/Field
4.3 G . C. E.  (A/L) Qualifications :
4.3.1 Year :––––––––––––.
4.3.2 Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass
4.4 G . C. E.  (O/L) Qualifications :
4.4.1 Year :––––––––––––.
4.4.2 Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass
4.5 Computer Literacy :
Course Duration Institute Year
4.6 English Language Proficiency (Pl. Indicate the followed
courses) :–––––––––––.
4.7 Professional Qualifications relevant to the field :
Course Duration Institute Year
5.0 Experience :
Designation Institute/Division From To
6.0 Payment of examination fee :
(i) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(ii) Date :––––––––––––.
(iii) Place which made the pa yment :––––––––––––.
(iv) Payed amount Rs. :––––––––––––.
Affix the original copy of the receipt here.
(Keeping a copy of the receipt will be usable)
Declaration of the applicant
(Should be signed in the presence of the officer attesting)
I do hereby honourly declare that the particulars given by me in
the application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge, and
the receipt hearing No. ..................... and dated .................. received
upon the payment of examination fee has been affixed here. In the
case it is revealed that I am disqualified person according to the rules
and regulations of this recruitment examination before the examination
or during the examination or after the examination. I agree to accept

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2071
any decision taken to cancel my candidature. Further I declare that I
am liable to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations for conducting examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
7.0 Attestation of the applicants signature :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... signed
in my presence today on .......................... and he/she has affixed the
receipt, received upon the payment of examination fee for the
examination.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting.
1. Name of the officer attesting :––––––––––––.
2. Designation :––––––––––––.
3. Address :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
8.0 Certification of the Head of the Department/Institute :
(to be certified by the immediate Head of the applicant)
I hereby certify that this applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................
is serving in this office at the post of ........................... (designation)
and the information furnished by he/she are accurate and he/she has
fulfilled all the qualifications required to apply for this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
10–254/2
––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICES  COMMISSION
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT
FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (DISTRICT)
GRADE III OF EXECUTIVE GRADE OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES AND AQUA TIC
RESOURCES - 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited to recruit for the 05 vacancies
existing in the Post of Assistant Director (District) Grade III of
Executive Grade at the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources by order of the Public Services Commission. Applications
prepared according to the specimen application form given at the
end of this notification should be sent by registered post to reach the
“Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations Sri Lanka, P. O .
Box 1503, Colombo” on or before the date stipulated below. The
heading “Open Competitive Examination to recruit for the Post of
Assistant Director (District) Grade III of Executive Grade of the
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources - 2014” has to be
clearly indicated in the top left hand corner of the envelope.
(a) Closing date for calling applications is 31.10.2014.
Note.– Complaints regarding any letter lost in post or received
late will not be considered. Any loss occurred due to
delaying application to the last date should be borne by
the applicants themselves.
2.0 Method of Recruitment :
Recruitments are done according to the results of a written
examination and structured interview.
Five times the number of candidates similar to the number of
recruitments from the candidates who scored 40% or more for all the
question papers for a written examination conducted by an institute
approved by the Commissioner General of Examinations or Public
Services Commission will be called for the structured interview.
Marks will be given at the structured interview according to a
marking scheme approved by the Public Services Commission by an
interview board approved by the same.
Qualified candidates who scored higher total marks at written
examination and structured interview will be recruited to the post by
the Public Services Commission on merit basis.
Number  of recruitments and the effective date of the appointment
will be decided as per the order of the Public Services Commission.
3.0 Terms and Conditions of the Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to Widow/Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) The officers appointed to this post are liable to one year
acting in period.
(iii) Language proficiency should be obtained in accordance
with the Government Policies within 05 years from the
date of appointment according to the provisions of the
Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 dated
21.01.2014 and other relevant circulars.
(iv) Should be liable to the Procedural Rules of the Public
Services Commission, Establishments Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial
Regulations of the Government and other regulations
issued by the Department.

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2072
4.0 Salary Scale.– Monthly Salary Scale of SL-1-2006A (Rs. 22,935
-10x645 - 8x790 -17-1,050 - Rs. 53,555) according to the Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006A is entitled to the post.
5.0 Qualifications :
5.1 Educational Qualifications :
Should have obtained a degree from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission ;
or
Having passed all four subjects in G . C. E. Advanced
Level Examination including Zoology and Botany (for
Old Syllabus) ;
or
Having passed three subjects in G . C. E. Advanced Level
Examination new syllabus in one sitting with BIology as
a subject (apart from the general examination) ;
or
Having passed 3 subjects in G . C. E. Advanced Level
Examination with credit passes for two subjects under
the old syllabus/new syllabus.
5.2 Professional Qualifications .– Will be considered as a
special qualification.
5.3 Experience.– Will be considered as a special qualification.
(a) For degree holder applicants :
(i)  Should be an officer of the Department of Fisheries
and Aquatic Resources at permanent posts of
Programme Manager, Quality Control Officer,
Fisheries Social Development Assistant, Fisheries
Inspector and Fisheries License Officer with not
less than 05 years satisfactory service period.
(ii) Having passed the relevant Efficiency Bar
Examination.
(iii) Having completed 05 years immediate satisfactory
Service Period.
(b) For applicants without a degree :
(i) Should be an officer of the Department of Fisheries
and Aquatic Resources holding permanent posts of
Fisheries Inspector, Fisheries Social Development
Assistant and Fisheries License Officer with not
less than 10 years satisfactory service period.
(ii) Having passed the relevant Efficiency Bar
Examination.
(iii) Having completed 05 years immediate satisfactory
Service Period.
5.4 Physical Fitness :
(i) All the candidates should be fit to work in any part of
Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should be mentally and physically fit to discharge
duties of the post.
5.5 Other Qualifications :
(i) Every applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Applicant should have good moral character.
(iii) The qualifications required for the recruitment to the post
should be completed in every manner before the closing
date for calling application.
6.0 Age limit.– Not relevant.
7.0 Syllabus :
7.1 Written Examination :
Limited Competitive Examination to recruitment for
Executive Grade Posts at the Department of Fisheries
and Aquatic Resources consists of the following 03
subjects.
Subjects Duration Total Marks Pass Marks
1. Aptitude test and 1 1/2 hr. 100 40%
General Knowledge
2. Fisheries Act and 1 1/2 hr. 100 40%
Regulations
3. Establishments Code/ 1 1/2 hr. 100 40%
Procedural Rules of
the Public Services
Commission and
Financial Regulations
7.2 Syllabus for the Written Examination :
Question Paper Syllabus
Aptitude test and This question paper is prepared to measure the logical and analytical ability and intelligence of the candidat e.
General Knoweldge This consists of 50 MCQ and short answer questions of mathematical problems and environment related
matters. All the questions should be answered.

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2073
Fisheries Act and This question paper prepared to measure,
Regulations (i) ( a) Basic knowledge related to Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act.
(b) Basic knowledge on fishing operation licensing.
(c) Basic knowledge on provisions for the protection of fish and other aquatic resources
(ii) Basic knowledge on Fisheries Regulations imposed by time to time.
(iii) Basic knowledge on Fisheries Pension Scheme and Social Security benefit scheme.
All the questions should be answered.
Establishments Code/ This question paper is prepared to measure office procedures being used in the government offices.
Procedural Rules of Questions are prepared relevant to the Part I of the Establishments Code to give knowledge about the
the Public Services important matters in office management covering the following Chapters of the Establishments Code.
Commission and Chapter I - General
Financial Regulations Chapter II - Recruitment Procedure and Appointment.
Chapter IV - Grant of Monthly Pay, Temporary Status, Payment Status and Pensionability
Chapter V - Release, Reversion and Termination of Employment
Chapter VII - Salaries
Chapter IX - Fees
Chapter XXVII - Channel of Communications
Chapter XXXI - Exercise of the Rights of Association and Expression of Opinion
Chapter XXXII - Exercise of political rights
Chapter XLVII - General Conduct and Discipline
Chapter XLVIII - Rules for Disciplinary Procedure
Procedural Rules of the Public Services Commission :
Chapter III - Appointment
Chapter IV - Service Minutes and Scheme of Recruitment
Chapter VI - Terms and Conditions Governing Appointment
Chapter VIII - Period of Probation, Period of Acting and Confirmation of Appointment.
Chapter XII - Release of a Public Officer temporarily or permanently from the Public Service
Chapter XVI - Extension of Service and Retirement.
To measure the basic knowledge on accounts and cash book procedures the following chapters of the Financial
Regulations.
Chapter I-IX of the Part I of the Financial Regulations.
All the questions should be answered.
Question Paper Syllabus
7.3 Structured Interview :
Five (05) times the number of candidates similar to the
number of candidates to be recrutied, among the candidates
who scores 40% or more marks for each subject at the
written examination will be called for the structured
interview on merit basis. The date for the structured
interview will be decided by the Secretary. Marks will be
given at the interview conducted by an interview board
appointed by the Public Services Commission.
Note.– Calling for the structured interview does not confirm
that he/she has fulfilled the requirements for
appointment :
Marking Criteria Maximum
Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 30
Professional Qualifications 10
Experience 25
Computer literacy 15
Language Proficiency 15
Competencies shown at the interview 05
Total 100

<!-- page 52 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2074
7.4 Examination Results.– Final report of results on the skills
basis considering the merit order of the total marks
obtained at the a written examination and the interview
will be furnished by the Commissioner General of
Examinations after handing over the marks obtained at
the structured interview by the Public Services
Commission to the Commissioner General of
Examinations. Results will be personally informed to the
candidates by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
8.0 Terms and conditions of the examination :
(i) Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media and candidates can sit the examination in one of
these languages. All the question papers should be
answered in the same language and the medium of the
examination mentioned in the application will not be
allowed to change. All the candidates should sit for the all
three (03) question papers.
(ii) An examination fee of Rs. 1,000 could be paid to any
post office or sub post office under the Head of Revenue
2013-02-13 of Commissioner General of examinations.
The receipt issued to the name of the applicant on payment
has to be affixed in the cage given in the application by an
edge of the receipt. Keeping a coy of the receipt will be
useful.
(iii) Examination fee paid for the examination will not be
refunded for any reason.
(iv) Date for the examination which is held in Colombo will be
informed later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected and will not be
informed :
Note.– Candidates are not permitted to enter the examination
centre without an admission card. Only the admission
cards certified for the signature of the candidate will be
provided to the examiner in charge.
Issuing an admission card to the candidate does not confirm
that he/she has fulfilled all the requirements to sit for
the examination.
(vi) Applications have to be prepared in 22-29cm size A4
papers using both sides of the paper. Application should
be prepared as heading 1.1-2.6 in the first page and heading
3.1-4.3 in second page and the rest in the next pages and
should be filled with the own hand writing of the
candidate. While preparing applications, in applications
with a Sinhala title the title should be indicated in English
language and in the application with a Tamil title the title
should be indicated in English language in addition to
Tamil language. Keeping a copy of the application will be
useful. Further informed that the candidate should check
that the conformity of the application with the specimen
application and applications which are not incompliance
with the specimen application will be rejected and will
not be informed.
(vii) Receipt of the application will not be acknowledged and
the Department of Examinations will publish a paper
notice immediately after issuance of admissions to
applicants. If admissions have not been received after 2-
3 days of this notice it should be nformed to the
Department of Examinations as mentioned thereof. You
are informed to forward inquiries to the Department of
Examinations mentioning your full name, address and NIC
number of the applicant and the name of the examination.
If applicant lives outside Colombo, it is more fruitful to
inquire with a request letter mentioning a fax number to
fax a copy of the admission to the applicant by Fax No.
011-2784232. It will be more useful to keep the copy of
the application copy of the receipt obtained by payment
of the examination fee and receipt obtained at sending the
application through registered post to produce when
requested in such inquiries.
(viii) Commissioner General fo Examinations has the right to
postpone or cancel the examination on approval of the
Public Services Commission.
(ix) Candidates are liable to rules and conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations. He/She shall
be liable to any punishment prescribed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations if violation of
rules, for the examination is observed.
9.0 Identity of the candidate.– A candidate should prove his identity
to the satisfaction of the examiner in charge of the examination centre
for all subjects of the examination. Any of the following documents
should be produced to confirm the identity of the candidate.
(i) A valid NIC issued by the Department of Registration of
Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.
10.0 Matters to be considered :
(a) Any document or a copy of that document should not be
attached to the application.
(b) Applications of applicants who failed to produce
documents when requested will not be considered.
Applicants who are already in the Government/Provincial Public
Service must forward the application through the Head of their
respective Department/Institution. It is compulsory to attest the
signature of all the applicants. Candidates who have applied for the
examination through their institute should attest his/her signature by
their respective Head of the Department. Signature of the other
applicants has to be attested by a Principal of a Government School/
retired principal, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of Peace,
Commissioner of Oath, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, an

<!-- page 53 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2075
authorized officer of Army, Navy or Air Force or by a permanent
staff officer in public service or Provincial Public Service drawing an
annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or above or a priest of a temple or any
religions priest.
11.0 Punishment for providing false information .– In case of
revealing disqualification of an applicant her/his candidature could
be cancelled before the examination or during the examination or after
the examination or at any time. If it reveals that a candidate has
furnished false information knowingly or any special detail is
purposely concealed by him, he shall be dismissed from the
Government Service.
12.0 This post should liable to the conditions of procedural Rules
of the Public Services Commission, Circulars issued at time to time
relevant to the Public Service, Service Minute of the Grade III of
Executive Grade and amendments to it.
13.0 Public Services Commission will take decisions on any
condition not mentioned in this notification.
14.0 If the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of the notifications
are non-consistent then the Sinhala version will be accepted.
By order of the Public Services Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources Development.
Maligawatta,
Colombo 10,
18th September, 2014.
ëjr yd c,c iïm;a fomd¾;fïka;=fõ úOdhl ks,Or .Kfha
 III fY%aKsfha iyldr wOHCI ^Èia;%sla&
;k;=rg n|jd .ekSu i|yd jk iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2014
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION TO RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (DISTRICT) GRADE III OF EXECUTIVE GRADE OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES
Index No. :
For officer use only
Medium of the Examination :
Sinhala - 2,  Tamil - 3,  English - 4
(Write the relevant No. in the cage)
Medium of examination will not be allowed to change later.
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name in full (In English block letters) :––––––––––.
(Eg. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE BUDDHIKA
SAMPATH KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
1.2 Surname with initials at the end of the name (in English
block letters) :––––––––––.
(Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA H. M. B. S. K.)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(English/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
1.5 Sex :
Female - 1 Male - 0
(Write relevant No. in the cage)
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
2.4 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.5 Address to send the Admission card  :––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
2.6 Telephone No. :
3.0 3.1 Marital Status :
Married - 1 Unmarried - 2
(Write the relevant No. at the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 31.10.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Educational and Professional Qualifications :
4.1 Basic Degree Qualification :
4.1.1 Degree :––––––––––––.
4.1.2 Subjects :––––––––––––.
4.1.3 Year :––––––––––––.
4.1.4 University :––––––––––––.
4.2 Post Graduate Qualifications :
Degree Relevant Class Y ear University
Subjects/Field
4.3 G . C. E.  (A/L) Qualifications :
4.3.1 Year :––––––––––––.
4.3.2 Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass

<!-- page 54 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2076
4.4 G . C. E.  (O/L) Qualifications :
4.4.1 Year :––––––––––––.
4.4.2 Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass
4.5 Computer Literacy :
Course Duration Institute Year
4.6 English Language Proficiency (Pl. Indicate the followed
courses) :–––––––––––.
4.7 Professional Qualifications relevant to the field :
Course Duration Institute Year
5.0 Experience :
Designation Institute/Division From To
6.0 Payment of examination fee :
(i) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(ii) Date :––––––––––––.
(iii) Place which made the payment :––––––––––––.
(iv) Payed amount Rs. :––––––––––––.
Affix the original copy of the receipt here.
(Keeping a copy of the receipt will be usable)
Declaration of the applicant
I do hereby honourly declare that the particulars given by me in
the application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
the receipt hearing No. ..................... and dated .................. received
upon the payment of examination fee has been affixed here. In the
case it is revealed that I am disqualified person according to the rules
and regulations of this recruitment examination before the examination
or during the examination or after the examination. I agree to accept
any decision taken to cancel my candidature. Further I declare that I
am liable to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations for conducting examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
7.0 Attestation of the applicants signature :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... signed
in my presence today on .......................... and he/she has affixed the
receipt, received upon the payment of examination fee for the
examination.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting.
1. Name of the officer attesting :––––––––––––.
2. Designation :––––––––––––.
3. Address :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
8.0 Certification of the Head of the Department/Institute :
(to be certified by the immediate Head of the applicant)
I hereby certify that this applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................
is serving in this office at the post of ........................... (designation)
and the information furnished by he/she are accurate and he/she has
fulfilled all the qualifications required to apply for this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department
or any other officer authorized by him.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
10–254/1

<!-- page 55 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2077
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 56 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.10.2014
2078
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2014
OCTOBER 03.10.2014 Friday — 19.09.2014 Friday 12 noon
10.10.2014 Friday –– 26.09.2014 Friday 12 noon
17.10.2014 Friday –– 03.10.2014 Friday 12 noon
24.10.2014 Friday –– 10.10.2014 Friday 12 noon
31.10.2014 Friday –– 17.10.2014 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 07.11.2014 Friday — 24.10.2014 Friday 12 noon
14.11.2014 Friday –– 31.10.2014 Friday 12 noon
21.11.2014 Friday –– 07.11.2014 Friday 12 noon
28.11.2014 Friday –– 14.11.2014 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 05.12.2014 Friday — 21.11.2014 Friday 12 noon
12.12.2014 Friday –– 28.11.2014 Friday 12 noon
19.12.2014 Friday –– 05.12.2014 Friday 12 noon
26.12.2014 Friday –– 12.12.2014 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.