

<!-- page 1 -->

793 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
793
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 795
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th August, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 03rd August, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,510 _ 2007 ¡ï“åàÌà”º 10 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .08.10
No. 1,510 – FRIDAY ,  AUGUST 10, 2007
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,509 of  03.08.2007 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
794
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

795 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTMENTAL  EXAMINATION  FOR  PRELIMINARY
GRADE  MEDICAL  OFFICERS
AND  DENTAL  SURGEONS – SEPTEMBER,  2007
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for
Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons which
should be passed by  preliminary grade Medical Officers before
promotion to grade II and which should be passed by Dental Surgeons
before confirmation in the service in terms of Section 07 of the
Minute of Medical Officers in the Health Services, published in the
Gazette (Extra Ordinary) No. 662/11 of 17.05.1991 of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, will be held on 30th September,
2007 in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The venue and the time of
the examination will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and
Dental Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination
can apply for this examination.
03. Applications.– Applications prepared by the candidates as
per specimen appended to this letter should be sent under Registered
cover to reach the Director (Examinations) “Suwasiripaya” No. 385,
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or
before 31.08.2007 through their Heads of Institutions. The Head of
Division should certify the accuracy of contents in each application.
A self addressed envelope in the size of 9''x 4" inches, affixed with
stamps to the value of Rs. 30.00 should be sent along with the
application. (Candidates can write their official or private address)
Applications which are received late, incomplete or inaccurate will
be rejected.
04.  Examination fees :–
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However in every subsequent
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per
subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application
and cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
(ii)The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any
other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination :–
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be
issued with Admission Cards. They should duly complete
and submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination centre.
Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the examination.
(ii)Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at
the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents will be accepted :—
(a) National Identity Card,
(b) Departmental Identity Card,
(c) Driving License,
(d) Passport.
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of
three written question papers and a Sinhala/Tamil Viva Voce test.
Each part will receive 100 marks. Candidates should score a minimum
of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can be completed
at one sitting or at several sittings.
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
07.1 Written Examination :
07.1.1 Establishments Code.– Duration 02 hours. Should
answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions. Total
marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Establishments Code :
(a) Part I – Chapters II, III, V , VI, VII, VIII,
IX, XI, XII, XIII, XV , XXIV , XXV ,
XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII,
XXXIII.
(b) Part II – Chapters XLVII and XLVIII.
(ii)General Regulations of the Department of
Health Services.
(iii)Orders of the Public Service Commission.
07.1.2Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries.–
Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should
answers four (04) questions out of seven (07)
questions.
Syllabus :
Health Mannual
  Part I – Medical Services
  Part II – Laboratory Services
07.1.3Accounts.– Duration 02 hours. Should answers 04
questions out of 07 questions. Total marks 100.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
796
Syllabus
(i) Financial Regulations – Part I
Chapter I – All Sections
II – All Sections
III – All Sections
IV – All Sections
V – Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6
VI – All Sections
VII – Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6.
(ii)Regulations of Stores Accounts of the
Department of Health Services.
(iii)Sections of Finance in the manual of the
Department of Health Services.
(iv)Financial Regulations relating to the daily
routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.
07.2 Viva Voce – Sinhala/Tamil
The Staff Officers in the Department of Health Services
will conduct this Examination in Colombo to examine
the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language. Total Marks
100. Skills of Officers to discuss on matters pertaining
to their daily routine duties will be examined.
08. The information is also available in the Web Site–
www.health.gov.lk.
Dr. U. A. A
JITH MENDIS ,
Director General of Health Services.
For Secretary of Health.
Ministry of Health Nutrition and Welfare,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
27th July, 2007.
For Office use only
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
Departmental Examination for Preliminary Grade
Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons – September, 2007
01. (a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials
at the end) :————.
(ii)Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials
at the end) :
(iii)Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
(b) (i) Designation (Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon) :–——.
(ii)Date of Internship appointment :————.
(iii)Date of appointment to the preliminary Grade :–——.
02. Subjects Offered (Mark “ü” within the cages against the subjects
you offer in this Examination. Mark “X” against the subjects
not   offered) :
Administration of Hospitals Accounts
and Dispensaries
Establishment Code Sinhala Viva V oce
Tamil Viva Voce
03. (a) Present Station :————.
(b) District of the Present Station :————.
(c) Examination Center preferred (If sufficient number of
candidates are not available any examination center action
will be taken to refer them to the closest examination center)
Mark “ü” in the relevant cage.
Colombo Kandana Mulleriyawa
Kaluthara G alle Badulla
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
(d) Whether a self-adderssed envelop in the size of 9 x 4 inches
with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 30.00 has been attached
to the application to post the Admission Card ? :————.
(e) (i) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In Sinhala/
Tamil) :————.
(ii)Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In English
Capitals) :————.
04. Medium you sit for the examination (Sinhala/English/Tamil) :
————.
05. (a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :–—.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application ? :
Stamp Cage

<!-- page 5 -->

797 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
06. Certificate of the candidate :
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and
I need not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for the
first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ……
since I repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by
me to the application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by
the Department of Health for the conduct of this
Examination and if I was found ineligible in accordance
with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever
decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
————,
Signature of the candidate.
2007.
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss ………… is well known to me and he/she* sits
the Examination for the first time/repeats the Examination* he/she*
need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps  to the value of Rs. ………
to the Application and he/she* placed his/her* signature in my
presence.
————,
Signature of Head of Institution/
Frank/Rubber Stamp.
Stamp
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized unit/specialised
Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss ………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental
Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars furnished
by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the
particulars available in his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to
sit for the Examination.
————,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Specialized campaign.
(Frank/Rubber Stamp)
08–409
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS 2 GRADE II OF SRI LANKA TEACHER
EDUCATORS SERVICE
THE Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 2-II of Sri
Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service will be held in Colombo on
November 2007.
The syllabus of this examination and other provisions have been
published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1070/13 and dated 11th March
1999. This syllabus and other provisions are indicated below for the
convenience of the applicants.
The officers may appear for the prescribed subjects in the
Efficiency Bar Examination in the same instance or in different
instances.
Syllabus
Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
(01) General Management and
Establishment Work Regulation in
the Establishment code with 100 1- 1/2hours
special reference for Chapters i, ii,
iii, iv, v, vii,viii, ix, xii, xiv, xxiv,
xxviii, xxx, and xxxi
(02) Financial Regulations – with special
reference for Chapters i, ii, v, viii,
xii, xiii and xiv in Part I of the
Government Financia - Regulations 100 1 1/2 hours
(03) Education Law – Candidates’
knowledge expected relating to
the following Ordinance and Acts
of Parliament 100 2hours
(i) Education Act, No.31 of 1939 and regulations imposed
thereunder
(ii)Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special Provisions)
Act, No.5 of 1960
(iii)Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Supplementary
Provisions) Act, No.8 pf 1961
(iv) Public Examinations Act No.25 of 1968 amended by Public
Examinations (Amendment) Act, No.15
of 1976
(v) Assisted Schools (Special Provisions) Act, No.65 of 1981
(vi) National Institute of Education Act, No.28 of 1985
(vii)Colleges of Education Act, No.30 of 1986
(viii)National Education Commission Act, No.19 of 1991

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
798
(ix)National Authority on Teacher Education Act No.32 of 1997
(x) Constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference for the 13th
Amendment and Chapter 3 on Fundamental Rights.
(xi)Enactments made by Provincial Councils relating to Education.
P.  S.–Candidates should obtain at least 40% marks for each subject
for passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
03. Language Medium of the examination :
i. Candidates may answer the papers in Official Language or
in the National Language.
ii. Candidates may answer the papers in the language medium
of the competitive examination they appeared for joining
the Public Service. Regarding those who joined Public
Service without appearing for a Competitive Examination
they may answer the papers in the language medium of the
examination they were qualified to join the Public Service.
04. If it is revealed that any candidate had appeared for the
examination in a medium he/she is not entitled to answer his/her
candidature will be cancelled.
05. Application should be prepared in conformity to the following
specimen form.
06. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by the rules and
regulations imposed by him for conducting this examination.
07. Applications should be sent under registered post addressed
to Commissioner  General of Examinations, Foreign Examinations
Branch, Department  of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to be
reached on or before 10.09.2007. Any applications received after
this date will be rejected. The words ‘Efficiency Bar Examination -
Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service 2-II, should be written on the
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
08. In the event of any candidate not receiving his admission card
at least seven days before date of examination he should promptly
notify to that effect to the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta Battaramulla. Telegraphic address: Commissioner General
of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla. While
informing the non receipt of the admission Card, following information
it is necessary to supply the following information :
i. Name of Examination ;
ii. Candidate’s name in full ;
iii.Candidate’s address in full ;
iv. Date of posting the applications.
(Registered number and Post office)
Those who are residing close by may notify the
Organizations and foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations (E- Block).
09. Any appeals forwarded by candidates who fail to fulfil the
requirements indicated at para above will not be considered.
10. It is the responsibility of the candidates to submit evidence to
prove their identity at the Examination hall and for this purpose any
one of the following documents will be valid :
(i) National identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the
Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A Valid Passport.
11. It has been decided to charge examination fees on the following
basis from the candidates appearing for this examination :
(a) No fees will be charged from candidates appearing for the
first time for the whole examination or for part of the
examination ;
(b) Fee for the whole examination Rs.150.00 ;
For one subject Rs. 50.00.
Candidates should pay the examination fee by revenue stamps
by duly placing their signature and canceling the stamps.
A
RIYARATNE  HEWAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
17th July, 2007.
Application
E
FFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  IN CLASS  2 GRADE  II OF   SRI LANKA
TEACHER  EDUCATORS ’ SERVICE
Applications should be sent under registered post addressed to
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examination Pelawatta
Battaramulla through the Head of the Institute.
(Name of the examination should be indicated on the top left
hand corner of envelope)
Language medium appearing for the examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Relevant Number to be written in the cage)
1. (a) Name with initials at end :———.
(In English Capital letters) Ex :- Mr/Mrs/Miss Silva, A. B.
(b) Names denoted by initials  :———.
(In English capital letters)
2. Date of birth :
Year                   Month                Date

<!-- page 7 -->

799 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
3. (i) Designation :———.
(ii)Name and address of NCOE/TC serving (Admission Card
will be sent to this address) :———.
4. Private address (In English Capital letters) :———.
5. Please indicate clealy the subject number and subjects appearing
as indicated under
 (a) in para 3 of the Notice :
Subject No. Subject
1
2
3
6. Whether you have appeared for this examination earlier
completely or partly and if so indicate the subjects, year appeared
and the medium :
Medium year Medium
…………… …………… ……………
7, Examination fees paid :
Stamps to be affixed here
(Prescribed stamps to be affixed and cancelled by applicants’s
signature)
8. I hereby declare that the above details are true and  correct and
that I am entitled to sit for this examination in the language
medium indicated in para  03 of the Gazette Notification.
––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :———.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Forwarded.
I certify that this candidate is eligible to sit for this examination
and he/she is qualified to appear in the language medium indicated
under para 03 of Gazette Notification 02. I also certify that the
candidate has duly cancelled the stamp/stamps.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of President NCOE/Manager T.C/
Designation.
Date :———.
08-241
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS
IN CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS' SERVICE – 2007 (I)
REFERENCE above examination notice published in the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1503 dated
22.06.2007.
2. It is hereby notified that the closing date of application
stipulated in paragraph 5.0 of the above examination notification is
amended as 24th August 2007.
A. N
OBERT ,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration &
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration &
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 7,
25th July 2007.
08-438
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND
HOME AFFAIRS
Registrar General’s Department
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO
THE POSTS OF DOCUMENTS ASSISTANTS
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited by the Registrar General for
the Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts of
Documents Assistants of the Registrar General’s Department.
This Examination will be held in Colombo in December, 2007 by
the Commissioner General of Examinations. The Head of Department
holds rights to postpone or cancel the examination.
01. Conditions of Service.– Recruitments to the post of Documents
Assistants will be made subject to the general conditions governing
appointments in the public service and on the following conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates should make contribution to the Widow/
Widower and Orphans Pension Fund. They are also subject
to the Establishment Code and Financial Regulations.
(ii)Sections 10 to 12 of Chapter 11 of the Establishments
Code will also apply on this regard.
(iii)New entrant officer to the public service will be subject to
a probation period of three (03) years.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
800
(iv) Officers who are already in public service will be appointed
on acting basis for one year.
(v) The candidates should pass the written Efficiency Bar
Examination before Lapse of 3 years from appointment.
No exemption from this Efficiency bar will be granted on
the basis of age.
(vi) On confirmation in the post the officers selected from the
Public Service will cease to be a member of the former
service and will have no right of reversion to that service.
02. Salary Scale.– MN-1-2006, Rs. 12,920 - 10 x 120 - 11 x 140
- 10 x 210 - 10 x 290 - Rs. 20,660. (Circular 6/2006)
03. Age Limit.– Candidates should not be less than 18 years and
not more than 45 years. The upper age limit will not apply to the
officers already in the Public Service.
04. Educational Qualifications.– The following qualifications
should have been completed as at 20.07.2007.
Passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in not more
than two sittings including any of the subjects from Language (Sinhala/
Tamil) or Literature and Arithmetic, Basic Mathematics. At least 05
subjects should be passed in one sitting with credit passes in 03
subjects including Language/Literature ; or
Passed the N.C.G.E. Examination in 06 subjects in not more than
two sittings including First Language and Mathematics. At least 05
subjects should be passed in one sitting with A or B passes in 03
subjects including First Language ; or
Passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in not more
than two sittings including Language (Sinhala/Tamil) and
Mathematics. At least 05 subjects should be passed in one sitting
with Credit passes in 03 subjects including Language.
05. Professional and Other Qualifications.– Should possess the
certificate obtained after following a course of which the duration is
not less than 06 months in a Government Technical College or the
National Youth Services Council or the National Apprenticeship
Board on Shorthand or Typing or Clerical or Draughtsman ship or
Higher Accountancy or Computer or Accounts Assistants’ and
successful completion of 06 months training period in a Government
Institute.
06. Method of Recruitment.– Selections will be made at an interview
held for the highest scorers of the competitive Examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examination for the eligible candidates
who were selected after calling for applications through a notice in
the Government Gazette/Public Newspapers.
07. Examination Fee.– Examination fee is Rs. 250. The receipt
obtained on payment of this fee to the District/Divisional Secretariat
under Revenue Head No. 4000-20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner
General of Examination before the closing date of applications. This
fee is not fundable. It will be useful to retain a photocopy of the
receipt with the candidate.
08. Method of application :
(a) The application should be in conformity with the specimen
appended to this notice and should be prepared on a A4
sizes paper using its both sided and including No. (1)-(5)
in the first page.
(b) The application should be filled in the language in which
the candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
(c) The applications for the post should be sent under the
registered cover to the Commissioner General of
Examinations Sri Lanka, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on or before the 20.09.2007.
"Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts
of Documents Assistants” should be clearly indicated on
the top left corner of the envelope containing the
application, Applications received after this date will not
be accepted. It will be useful to retain a photocopy of the
application.
Note.– Candidates in the Public Service/Provincial Public
Service should send their applications through the
respective Heads of their Department/Organization.
(d) Applications which are not complete in every respect
may be rejected. No complaints regarding lost or delayed
applications in the post will be enteretained.
(e) Receipt of an application will not be acknowledged.
Admission cards will be sent to the candidates by the
Commissioner General of Examination by post. A
candidate who does not receive the admission card seven
days before the date of the examination should immediately
notify the Commissioner General of Examinations, with
the following details :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii)Full name of the Candidate ;
(iii)Address ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, Registration number
and Post Office ;
(v) Photocopy of the receipt of payment of Examination
Fees.
09. Admission to the Examination Centre :
(i) A candidat presenting himself/herself for the examination
must produce his/her Admission in which his/her signature
has been duly attested to the Head of the Examination
Centre. A candidate who fails to do so will not be permitted
to sit for the examination.
(ii)Every candidate should sit the examination at the
Examination Hall assigned to him and follow the general
rules imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examination.

<!-- page 9 -->

801 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
(iii)The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit for the examination.
10. Identity of the Candidate.– A candidate must prove his/her
identity to the satisfaction of the Head of Examination Centre for
each subject he/she offers. One of the following documents will only
be accepted for this purpose.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport issued not more than three years prior to
the date of examination.
11. Furnishing False Information.– If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage
prior to or during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by a Candidate, who is in the Public Service, is found to be
false within his knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed any
important fact, he will be liable to dismissal from the Pubilc Service.
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
13. Method of Examination :
I. Medium :
(a) The candidate may apply for the Examination in one of
the two mediums of Sinhala and Tamil.
(b) Every candidate should answer the question papers in
the language which is stated in the application.
(c) No candidate will be allowed to change the medium of
language indicated in his/her application.
II. Subjects and syllabus.– The examination consists of the
written question papers of the following subjects.
(1) Language Skills.– A question paper of 1 1/2 hours
designed to test candidate’s knowledge of expression
of ideas, comprehension, orthography and grammar in
association with subject related matters. (100 Marks)
(2) Intelligence.– A question paper of 01 hour designed to
test the candidate’s Statistical and logical ability and
general intelligence associated with subject related
matters. (100 Marks)
40% or more marks for each question paper should be
obtained in order to qualify for the recruitment.
14. The final decision regarding any matter complicated or not
provided for herein will be at the discretion of the Registrar General.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
27th July, 2007.
For office use only
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND HOME
AFFAIRS
Registrar General’ s Department
Recruitment to the Posts of Documents Assistants
Medium of Examination
(Write the relevant Number in the cage)
(Sinhala - 2)
(Tamil - 3)
01. (i) Last name followed by initials (in English Block Capitals)
:—————.
(ii)Names denoted by initials (in English Block Capitals) Eg. :
SILV A, A. B.
02. Full Address :
(i) Private (in English Block Capitals) :—————.
(ii)Official (in English Block Capitals) :—————.
(Officers who are in Public Service/Provincial Public Service
must write their official addresses. Any change in address
should be informed immediately.)
03. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––,  Date :––––––––.
(ii)Age as at 20.07.2007 :––––––––.
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
04. Sex :
Female - 01
Male - 0 (write the relevant number in the cage)
05. Civil Status :
Married - 2
Unmarried - 1 (write the relevant number in the cage)
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Educational Qualifications : G. C. E. (O/L Examination) :
1st Sitting : 2nd Sitting :
Year :—–—. Index No. :—–—. Year :—–—.  Index No. :—–—.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2007
802
08. Professional and Other Qualifications :—————.
Details of the Course as per Para. 7 in the Gazette Notification.
Institution whereCourse Duration Government Duration
Course was Institute where of
followed Candidate T raining
underwent
Training
09. Firmly paste the Cash receipt here :
10. Certificate of the Candidate :
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief all the
information given in this form is true and I have affixed cash receipt
No. ………… dated in payment of the Examination fee. I also agree
to be bound by the rules governing the examination introduced by
the Commissioner general of examination and any decision that may
be taken to cancel my candidature prior to or after the Examination if
it is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of the
Examination or to dismiss me from the post without compensation
if the inaccuracy is detected aftter the appointment.
—————,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :—————.
Attestation
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………… who is an
officer of my office personally known to me signed before me on
……………… 2007.
—————,
Signature of Attesting Officer.
Name :—————.
Designation :—————.
Address :—————.
Attestation
In case of Government servants, the signature can be attested by
the Head of Department or the relevant Staff Officer. In case of
external candidates signature can be attested by Principal of an
approved School, a retired Principal of such school, Justice of the
Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-law, an officer of the
public or Local Government Service drawing an annual consolidated
salary of Rs. 19,755 or over, Notary Public, a Chief Priest, or a
Priest in charge of a religious institution.
Certificate of the Head of Department
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………… is employed in
this Department and that his/her work and conduct are satisfactory.
He/She fulfills the requirement stated in the relevant notification
calling for applications to apply for this examination. No penalty
whatsoever has been imposed on him/her other than a warning. He/
She can/cannot be released from service, if selected.
—————,
Signature of Head of Department.
Date :—————.
Name and Designation :—————.
Address :—————.
Telephone No. :—————.
08–435
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.