

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 27.12.2017
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2051$15 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 27 jeks nodod - 2017'12'27
No. 2051/15 - WEDNESDAY,  DECEMBER  27, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
NATIONAL  POLICY   AND  STRATEGIC  FRAMEWORK   ON   INJURY  PREVENTION  AND
MANAGEMENT  IN   SRI   LANKA
National Policy and Strategic Framework on Injury Prevention and Management in Sri Lanka has been approved by the
Cabinet of Ministers at its meeting held on 06.06.2017 and is effective from same date. The policy is a long felt need of
the country and will provide policy guidance and directions to the national and provincial authorities and other relevant
stakeholders for effective implementation of the  National Injury Prevention Programme.
J
ANAKA  S UGATHADASA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health, Nutrition & Indigenous
Medicine.
20th December 2017.
National  Policy   and  Strategic  Framework   on  Injury  Prevention  and  Management  in  Sri  Lanka
Ministry of Health Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine 2016
Non Communicable Diseases (NCD) Unit, Ministry of Health & Indigenous Medicine.
Introduction
Injuries are the leading cause of hospitalization and the 11th leading cause of hospital deaths in Sri Lanka. Majority of the
injury victims are in the productive age group (15 to 44 years) and cause devastating consequences to the injured person
as well as the lives of family members and community.
As this growing burden of injuries challenge economic and social development, the Government of Sri Lanka has
recognized prevention and management of injuries as a priority area of work.
Thus the Ministry of Health has taken the initiative to develop the National Policy and strategic framework on
injury prevention and magament with input from government officials, experts and stakeholders engaged in injury prevention.
1A   PG   3844 — 507  (12/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 27.12.2017
2A
Scope of the current policy document :
The National policy will cover the unintentional injuries among all age groups through following levels of prevention.
1. Primary prevention - Which involves interventions aimed at reduction in the exposure to risk and prevention of
injuries from occurring, through adoption of safer behaviours and safer environments.
2. Secondary prevention - Which involves interventions that can provide early detection and appropriate management
of an injury event to prevent more serious consequences. (pre-hospital care, emergency trauma care).
3. Tertiary prevention - Which involves interventions to reduce the likelihood of disability and management of
disabilities due to injury (rehabilitation).
Intentional injury is addressed through the Mental Health Policy. Secondary prevention and selected aspects of
tertiary prevention are seen as common to all types of injury and this policy addresses the service structures that are
required. The Disaster preparedness policy is coherent with this policy in service delivery aspects.
Vision
Injury free Sri Lanka
Mission
The mission is to reduce the frequency and severity of injuries by incorporating injury prevention strategies into everyday
life of people.
Policy goal
To minimize injury events and reduce injury morbidity, disability and mortality in Sri Lanka.
Key Strategies
The following strategies areas are identified and prioritized to achieve the policy objective
1) Strengthen coordinated action for injury prevention.
2) Raise awareness on gravity of the injury problem and prevention of injuries
3) Maintain and recommed legislative and regulatory mechanisms supporting injury prevention.
4) Empower community and stake holders to design and develop safe environments.
5) Strengthen the organization capacity to provide optimum post event care and rehabilitation of the injury victim.
6) Strengthen the injury information system and promote research.
Strategic Objectives
Strategic objecties are identified under each strategic area
Strategy 01 : Strengthen coordinated action for injury prevention
Objetives :
1) Strengthen the National Committee for Prevention of Injuries (NCPI) to enhance coordination mechanism and
to ensure integration of injury prevention efforts. (shall be represented by : Health, Transport, Highways and
Road Development, Department of Motor Traffic, National Transport Commission, Police, Labour, National

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 27.12.2017
3A
Institute of Occupational safety and Health (NIOSH), Education, Justice, Provincial Councils and Local
Governments, Social Services, Treasury, Ministry of Mass Media and Information, Insurance Board)
2) Develop and implement plans to coordinate and guide injury prevention at different levels : National, Regional
and Community.
Strategy 02 : Raise awareness on gravity of the injury problem and prevention of injuries
Objectives :
1. Create awareness and acceptance among policy makers, professionals and general public that most injuries can
be prevented.
2. Incorporate module on Injury Prevention into the curricula for primary, secondary and relevant undergraduate
education.
3. Develop and include Injury Prevention module in relevant in-service training programmes in the respective
departments.
4. Encourage individuals and groups to be actively involved in injury prevention.
5. Encourage positive attitudes towards safety promotion and injury prevention among all.
Strategy 03 : Maintain and recommend legislative and regulatory mechanisms supporting injury prevention
Objectives :
1) Strengthen implementation and enforcement mechanisms of existing legislation and regulations.
2) Support compliance by formulating and updating guidelines, code of practices and standards to the communities.
3) Identify deficiencies in existing legislative and regulatory mechanisms
4) Recommendation, introduction or modification of the legislation and regulations that facilitate injury prevention.
Strategy 04 : Empower community and stake holders to design and develop safe environments.
Objectives :
1) Promote safe environment through empowerment of individuals, families and communities.
2) Ensure safety and freedom from injury as a kee component in all development projects and programms.
3) Improve environments and products to reduce the likelihood of injuries occuring as a result of human error.
Strategy 05 : Strengthen the organization capacity to provide optimum post event care and rehabilitation of the
injury victim.
Objectives  :
1) Strengthen appropriate pre-hospital care for injury victims.
2) Strengthen basic emergency are available at primary level institutions.
3) Strengthen emergency care available at secondary and tertiary level institutions.
4) Strengthen appropriate rehabilitation and integrated services available at primary, secondry and tertiary level
institutions.
5) Strengthen appropriate rehabilitation and integrated services available in the community.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 27.12.2017
4A
Strategy 06 : Strengthen the injury information system and promote research
Obejctives :
1) Develop and implement National Injury Surveillance system
2) Establish mechanism for systematic dissemination of information among the stakeholders and community
periodically.
3) Identity research priority in the area of injury prevention.
4) Promote research to fill deficiencies in injury information and convert research into pratice.
5) Disseminate Annual Report to all sectors in a timely manner.
Coordinating mechanism
Appropriate coordination mechanisms will be established at the national, provincial and disrict level. The directorate of
Non Communicable Diseases of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine is the focal point for injury
prevention and will serve as the operational and overall coordination body in implemnting the National Injury Policy in the
country.
Director Non Communicable disease will coordinate with different sectors for proper implementation of National
policy, in order to ensure that the national strategic plan on injuries is implemented throughout the country. Also the
availability of resorces for effective implementation of the policy should be ensured. The NCD Unit is managed by the
Director under the supervision and guidance of the Deputy Director General (NCD). A sustainable financial mechanism
will also be ensured for implementation of the injury policy efficiently.
Responding to local need and circumstances, PDHSs and RDHSs will develop integrated provincial and disrict
plans that are consistent with the national policy after consulting relevant stakeholders.
At the provincial level, implementation of the injury prevention program will be coordinated by the Provincial
Consultant Community Physician (or Medical Officers in their absence) under supervision of PHDS. Implementation of
the disrict plans will be coordinated by Medical Officer Non Communicable Disease (MONCD) under supervision of
RDHS. MONCD is the District Program Manger (District Focal Point) for the injury Prevention Program.
Implementation
Medium term operational plan (3-5 years) and annual plans shall be formulated from this strategic framework. The strategic
plan on injury prevention and management shall guide the preparation of implementation plans  at provincial and district
level. It is vital to lialise with the Provincial Health Ministries to ensure smooth implementation of the program. Therefore,
it is recommended that each province/region formulate a provincial regional committee on prevention of injuries to
facilitate better implementation of the activities within the respective areas.
Collaboration with NGOO and community groups (Youth groups, Gramodaya and welfare organization etc.) will
enhance better delivery of the preventive activities at the grass root level.
Monitoring and Evaluation  :
Monitoring and evaluation shall take place according to the medium term and annual plan. This Plan will spell out the
relevant performance indicators to be used at national, sub-national including institutional levels. A system of regular
monitoring will be established at these levels.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 27.12.2017
5A
National Committee for Prevention of Injuries (NCPI).
The NCPI functions as the key technical body advising on implementation of the National Policy. It will be charied by the
Director General of Health Services, and constitute representation from relevant government agencies. The NCPI will
recommed and support inter-sectorial actions required for prevention and management of injuries, evaluate the impact of
implementation of policy measures and advice on modifications of the national policy as necessity arises, monitor the
implementation of the national policy across the sectors and provide yearly reports for the National Health Council and
Provincial Councils and  flag up important issues that require advice to the National Health Council. Within the NCPI, for
each specific  type of injury, sub committee will be formed to coordinate the preventive efforts.
Thr NCPI is accountable to the Secretary of Health for policy implementation.
Technical Working Group (TWG) on Injuries
The TWG will consist of 8-10 members and will function under the Director NCD. The membership can be expaned as per
the working requirements where additional members will co-opted from representation from the relevant stakeholders.
Annexure A
The standard definition of an injury as used by WHO is : “Injuries are caused by acute exposure to physical agents such as
mechanical energy, heat, electricity, chemicals, and ionizing rediation interacting with the body in amounts or at rates that
exceed the threshold of human tolerance. In some cases (for example, drowing and frostbite), injuries result from the
sudden lack of essential agents such as oxygen or heat” (WHO 2002).
It can be bodily lesion resulting from acute exposure to energy in amounts that exceed that threshold of
physiological tolerance, or an impairment of function resulting from a lack of one or more vital elements ( i. e. air, water,
warmth) ; as in drowing, strangulation or freezing. The time between exposure to the energy and the appearance of an
injury is short (WHO, 2002).
The energy causing an injury may be :
1. Mechanical ( e. g. an impact with a moving or stationary object, such as a surface, knife or vehicle)
2. Rediant ( e. g. blinding light or a shock wave from an explosion)
3. Thermal ( e. g. air or water that is too hot or too cold)
4. Electrical
5. Chemical ( e. g. a posion or an intoxicating or mind-altering substance such as alcohol or a drug)
Injuies are the acute, physical conditions listed in Chapter XIX and Chapter XX in the International Statistical
Classification of Disease and Related Health Problems, Tenth revision  (ICD - 10)
The above definition of an injury includes drowing (lack of oxygen), hypothermia (lack of heat), strangulation
(lack of oxygen), decompression sickness (excess nitrogen compounds) and poisiongs (by toxic substances). It does Not
include conditions that result from continual stress, such as carpal tunnel syndrome, chronic back pain and poisioning due
to infections. Mental disorders and chronic disability, although these may be eventual consequences of physical injury,
are also excluded by the above definition (WHO 2002).
01-294
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.