

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2057
2057
wxl 1"630 - 2009 fkdjeïn¾ 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'11'27
No. 1,630 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2060
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 2067
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th December, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th
November, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,629 of 20.11.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2058
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2059
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2060
JUDICIAL  SERIVCE  COMMISSION
Application are called for in Terms of Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 115)
the Recruitment for the Post of Quazis
01. Hambantota : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim marriages and Divorce Act
(Chapter 115) for the Post of the Judicial Zone of Hambantota.
02. Gampaha : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act
(Chapter 115) for the Post of Quazi in the Divisional Secretariat Divisions of Gampaha, Attanagalla, Meerigama
and Mahara in Gampaha District.
03. Kegalle : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act
(Chapter 115) for the Post of the Judicial Zone of Kegalle.
04. Negombo : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act,
(Chapter 115) for the Post of the Judicial Zone of Negombo.
Persons with following Qualifications may Apply.– Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized university or a Moulavi
holding a certificate from an institution recognized by the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religion and Cultural Affairs or  a ho lder of the
Al-Alim Certificate issued by the Department of Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar professional qualifications
or a retired public servant who has held office in staff grade.
Persons currently holding a permanent post in the public service shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicant should be persons of over 40 years of age and of good character and standing in the community and possessing a
sound knowledge of the Law relating to Muslim Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidates will be appointed for a period, which will be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for which he is appointed. A Quazi will be paid a monthly
allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all inclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support service (clerical, assesso rs, typing,
postal).
Application forms can be obtained from the Judicial Service Commission Secretariat, should be sent to reach me on or before
15th December, 2009.
M. P. D
E SILV A,
Acting Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Hulftsdorp, Colombo 12,
November, 2009.
11–757
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2061
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th December, 200 9.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
26th October, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
Matara Malimboda Post of Registrar of Birth and Deaths in District Secretary/Additional
Thelijjawila Division and Marriage (General) Regi strar General, District
in Weligam Korale Division Secretariat, Matara
Matara W elipitiya Post of Registrar of Birth and Deaths in District Secretary/Additional
Udukawa Division and Marriage (General) Registrar General, District
in Weligam Korale Division Secretariat, Matara
11–619
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE  DEVELOPMENT  AND  AGRARIAN  SERVICES
Hector Kobbekaduwa Agrarian Research and Training Institute
APPLICATIONS are called for the following posts from suitably qualified Sri Lankan citizens.
01. Post.– Accountant :
1. Qualifications and Experience :
(i) An associate member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants or member of Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants UK or the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants UK ;
and
02 years experience after obtaining membership ;
or
(ii) Degree in Management with Final Part I Examination of the Institute of Chartered Accountants or Intermediate
Examination of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants UK ;
and
03 years relevant experience as an Accountant.
2. Age.– 22 - 45 years.
3. Salary Code and Salary Scale. – MM I-I Rs. 25,640 - 3 x 665 - 7 x 735 - 15 x 925 - Rs. 46,655 (Candidates with
qualification and experience may be considered for appointment at a suitable point on the above salary scale.)
(To proceed beyond the salary point Rs. 30,575 the Officer requires to obtain Post-graduate Diploma in Finance
Management).

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2062
02. Post.– Head, Publication Unit.
1. Qualifications and Experience :
(i) Degree from a recognized University with English as a subject or Degree in Mass Communication with Credit pass in
Sinhala/Tamil at G. C. E. (A/L) ;
and
10 years experience in Information and Publication and Management Work in a reputed Institute.
(ii) Information and Publication Officer who possess Degree with 10 years experience at HARTI.
2. Age.– 22-45 years.
3. Salary Code and Salary Scale. – MM I-I Rs. 25,640 - 3 x 665 - 7 x 735 - 15 x 925 - Rs. 46,655 (Candidates with
experience may be considered for appointment at a suitable point on the above salary scale.) (To proceed beyond Rs.
30,575 the officer requires a Post-graduate Diploma in Mass Communication or relevant field.)
03. Post.– Research Officer
1. Qualifications and Experience :
(i) A Degree from a recognized University with 1st or 2nd Class Upper Division in Economics, Agriculture, Development
Economics, Environmental Economics, Statistics and Sociology ;
or
A Degree from a recognized University with one or more of the above specified subjects together with a post-graduate
degree from a recognized University ;
or
A Degree from a recognized Unviersity with 08 years experience in a related field and an excellent record of academic
publications.
2. Age.– 22-45 years.
3. Salary Code and Salary Scale.– AR -I Rs. 24,725 - 550 x 5 - 645 x 5 - 770 x 15 - Rs. 42,250 (Candidates with experience
may be considered for appointment at a suitable point on the above salary scale.).
04. Post.– Information/Publication Officer (English/Sinhala) - Grade I
1. Qualifications and Experience :
(i) A Degree from a recognized University in the field of Social Sciences with Sinhala/English as a subject (as relevant)
and 5 years relevant experience ;
or
Passes in 04 subjects at old syllabus or 03 subjects at the new syllabus at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination at one sitting
and credit pass in English at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
and
At least 10 years experience in the field of Information/Publication work in a recognized Establishment.
2. Age.– 22-45 years.
3. Salary Code and Salary Scale.– JM 1-2 Rs. 20,890 - 365 x 10 - 550 x 18 - Rs. 34,440 (Candidates with experience may
be considered for appointment at a suitable point on the above salary scale.)
05. Post.– Statistical Officer
1. Qualifications and Experience :
A Degree from a recognized University in Statistics or relevant field with 05 years relevant experience. Computer
literacy will be an added qualification.
2. Age.– 22-45 years.
3. Salary Code and Salary Scale. – JM 1-2 Rs. 20,890 - 10 x 365 - 18 x 550 - Rs. 34,440.
06. Post.– Data Analyst
1. Qualifications and Experience :
A Degree from a recognized University with 05 years relevant experience in analyses of data using statistical
software. Computer literary is essential.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2063
2. Age.– 22-45 years.
3. Salary Code and Salary Scale. – JM 1-2 Rs. 20,890 - 10 x 365 - 18 x 550 - Rs. 34,440.
07. Post.– Statistical Assistant – Gr. III
1. Qualifications and Experience :
A Degree from a recognized University with Statistics, Mathematics, Economics, Agriculture, Commerce, Public/
Business Administration as a subject. Candidates who do not have Mathematics as a subject for the Degree should
have passed in Mathematics at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination. Computer literacy will be an added qualification.
2. Age.– 22-45 years.
3. Salary Code and Salary Scale. – MA 2-2 Rs. 14,610 - 145 x 10 - 170 x 7 - 290 x 4 - 345 x 20 - Rs. 25,310.
Other Benefits.– Contribution to the Employees' Provident Fund will be at the rate of 15% from the Institute and 10% from the
employee. The Institute will also make a contribution equivalent to 3% of the employee's salary to the Employee's Trust Fund.
Exemption from income tax currently available to public sector employees will also apply. A medical scheme is also available for Institute
staff. In addition to the salaries metnioned for the above posts, Government approved cost of living allowances will be paid.
The upper age limits for the above posts does not apply for those who are already in Government/Corporation/Statutory Board
services.
Duly filled applications should be sent under registered cover together with copies of birth certificates, educational certificates
and certificates of experience to reach me on or before 15.01.2010. The post applied for should be clearly indicated on the top  left-hand
corner of the envelope. Applications from candidates serving in Government Departments/Corporations/Statutory Boards will be
considered only if they are forwarded through the respective Head of the Institute.
Director,
Hector Kobbekaduwa Agrarian
Research and Training Institute.
No. 114, Wijerama Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
12th November, 2009.
11–825
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE  AND  LAW  REFORMS
Post of Labour Tribunal Interpreter (Sinhala/Tamil) and
(Sinhala/English)
APPLICATIONS are called from citizens of Sri Lanka with requisite
qualifications mentioned in this notification for Posts of Interpreter
(Sinhala/Tamil) and (Sinhala/English) in the Labour Tribunals under
the Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms.
02. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Passed the Senior School Certificate Examination of Ceylon
with credit passes in four subjects including Language
andArithmetic or Pure Mathematics or Elementary
Mathematics ;
or
Passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary
Level) Examination of Sri Lanka in six subjects with credit
passes at least in four subjects including Language and
Mathematics with passes in :-
(i) Sinhala Language/Tamil Language,
(ii) Arithmetic or Pure Mathematics ; and
(iii) Four other subjects with not less than five subjects
in one sittings ; or
Passed the N.C.G .E. Examination in six subjects in
not more than two sittings with "B" passes for four
subjects including Sinhala/Tamil and Mathematics
(should have passed in not less than five subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil and Mathematics in one
sitting) ; and
(b) (i) Applicants should have the ability to speak clearly
and accurately in two other languages (Sinhala/tamil/
English) in addition to the medium in which the
applicants have passed the examination by which
they have acquired the necessary qualifications.
(ii) The selected candidate should have ability to interpret
from one language (Sinhala/Tamil/English) to one or
more other language/languages.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2064
03. Age Limit.– Not less than 22 years and more than 45 years
at the date on which the applications close. The maximum age limit
will not apply to persons already in Public Service/Provinical Public
Service.
04. Salary Scale.– MN - 1 - 2006 A(iv) (step 06) Rs. 13,845 -
5 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 10 x 240 - 10 x 320 - Rs. 22,040 per month.
05. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates who have fulfilled the
above qualifications in terms of the PA Circular No. 15/90 will be
recruited on merit on the results of a written examination and an
oral examination to be held by the Secretary to the Ministry of
Justice and Law Reforms.
1. Written Examination :–
Syllabus :
Translation of Sinhala Language into Tamil Language Two
Translation of Tamil Language into Sinhala Language hour
Translation of Sinhala Language into English Language question
Translation of English Language into Sinhala Language paper
Total marks - 100
2. Oral Examination  - Total marks - 50
Applicants who obtain highest marks at the written examination
will be called for an oral examination depending on the number
of existing vacancies at the ratio of 1:2. The ability to interpret
will be assessed at the oral examination. The Interview Board
will be appointed by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice
and Law Reforms. The Marking Scheme will be determined by
the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms.
06. Terms of Engagement :
(i) This post is permanent. It is pensionable. Contribution
should be made to the Widows', Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(ii) The appointment will be on probation for a period of
three years. If a permanent officer already in the Public
Service who and has been confirmed in his/her appointment
is selected, he/she will be appointed subject to an acting
period of one year.
(iii) Selected candidate should pass the First Efficiency Bar
Examination within three years and the Second Efficiency
Bar Examination within seven years from the assumption
of duties.
07. Conditions of Service .– Sections 10 to 12 in Chapter II of
the Establishments Code will apply.
08. Applications prepared according to the specimen appearing
at the end of this notification and should be sent under registered
cover to reach :
The Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms,
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12. on or before 18.12.2009.
 
09. The words "Application for the Post of Labour Tribunal
Interpreter" should be written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application.
10. The application should be completed in all respects. Late
applications will be rejected without any notice and complaints
relating to the loss of any application and connected documents in
the post will not be entertained.
11. Applicants who are in Public Service/Provincial Public Service
should forward their applications through the Heads of their
respective Departments/Institutions.
12. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before selection and to dismissal if
discovered after selection.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms,
Colombo 12.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
M
INISTRY OF JUSTICE AND LAW REFORMS
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF LABOUR TRIBUNAL INTERPRETER
(SINHALA/TAMIL) AND (SINHALA/ENGLISH)
No. :–––––––––.
(For office use only)
01. Full name :
In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––.
In English :–––––––––.
02. Name with initials :
In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––.
In English :–––––––––.
03. Residential address :
In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––.
In English :–––––––––.
04. Office Address :–––––––––.
05. Telephone No. :–––––––––.
06. N.I.C. No. :–––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :–––––––––.
08. Age on 31.10.2009 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
09. Whether Male/Female :–––––––––.
10. Citizenship :–––––––––.
11. Medium of Education :–––––––––.
12. The post applied for Interpreter (Sinhala/Tamil) or (Sinhala/
English) :–––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2065
13. Educational Qualifications :
G .C.E. (O/L) Examination :
School Subjects Pass level Year
14. Other Qualifications :–––––––––.
15. I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any
particular, contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I
am liable to disqualification, if detected before selection and to
dismissal without compensation, if detected after appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
REPORT OF THE HEAD OF DEP ARTMENT IF THE
APPLICANT IS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE
PART "B"
(The recommendation of the Head of Department)
It is certified that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... has been serving
in this institution as a ................... and that the particulars given by
the said officer are true and correct and his/her work attendance and
conduct is satisfactory. Also, it is informed that in the event of his/
her been selected for the above post, he/she can be/cannot be released
from the present post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
11–762
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
CLASS I POSTS OF SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCATION
SERVICE AND POSTS OF DIRECTOR, ADDITIONAL
DIRECTOR OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY
APPLICATIONS are called for the Class I posts of Sri Lanka
Technical Education Service in the Department of Technical
Education and Training under the Ministry of V ocational and
Technical Training.
Applications, prepared as per the specimen given below, should
be sent by Registered Post to reach The Secretary, Ministry of
V ocational and Technical Training, No. 354/2, "Nipunatha Piyasa",
Narahenpita, Colombo 05, on or before 15.12.2009. The top
left-hand corner of the envelope should be marked "Class I posts of
Sri Lanka Technical Education Service and Posts of Director and
Additional Director for Colleges of Technology".
02. Terms and Conditions of Employment :
(i) These posts are permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will have to contribute towards the Widows'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme. The selected persons, if
not holding a permanent and pensionable posts in the
Public Service, will be appointed subjected to a period of
three years probation/trial, as the case may be. If an officer,
already holding a permanent and pensionable post in Public
Service is selected, his/her appointment will be on an acting
capacity for a period of one year, at the first instance.
(ii) Every Officer, appointed to a post of Sri Lanka Technical
Education Service are expected to obtain the competency
in second language within 05 years from the date of
appointment in accordance to the Public Administrative
Circular No. 07/2007. Failure to complete the competency
in the Second Language within the stipulated period will
result in the deferment of the increment. The Language
proficiency of these officers is, pass for Sinhala/Tamil in
G . C. E. (O/L) as a main subject (should not be a 2nd
language or optional subject) and pass the oral test held
by the Department of official languages or pass the special
skills examination held by the Department of official
languages.
03. Salary and Allowance.– Salary scale for the class I according
SL-1 -2006 is Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 -
Rs. 53,555 and initiating point of the salary (monthly) is Rs. 36,755.
04. Qualifications required.-  Every candidate should furnish
satisfactory proof in support of the following qualifications before
18.07.2008 :–
4.1 Be of excellent moral character and physically sound ;
4.2 Be not less than 30 years and not more than 45 years as at
the closing date for applications. (The upper age limit
does not apply to those already in Public Service/Provincial
Public Service) ;
4.3 (i) Should have a Post Graduate Degree or a Post Graduate
Diploma or Equivalent qualifications ; and
Should have completed at least one year of satisfactory
service* in the Class II of Sri Lanka Technical Education
Service and should have been confirmed in his/her post ;
or
(ii) Should have a Post Graduate Degree or a Post Graduate
Diploma or equivalent qualifications ; and
Should be holding a post in the Ministry of V ocational
and Technical Training or in an Institution under the
same Ministry and should be an officer, holding a post

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2066
of, SL-1 salary scale, according to 06/2006 Salary
Circular and should be confirmed in his/her post and
be in receipt of a salary not less than Rs. 30,965 per
month on 18.07.2008 ; or
(iii) Should have completed at least five years of satisfactory
service* in Class II of Sri Lanka Technical Education
Service and should have been confirmed in his/her post.
* Satisfactory service means, that all salary increments
have been earned on the due date during the last five
years and not been subject to any kind of disciplinary
punishment other than a warning.
05. Every candidate should be prepared to produce any or all of
the following documents when called upon to do so :–
(a) Certificate of Birth ( N. B.– Certificate of Birth issued
for the purpose of the Code of Regulations for Assisted
Schools or the Baptismal Certificate will not be
accepted) ;
(b) Degree Certificates or Educational Certificates ;
(c) Two testimonials ;
(d) Certificates to prove professional and or technical
qualifications ;
(e) Certificate of higher examinations passed in Sinhala,
Tamil and English.
Note.– (1) No document or copies of documents should be
attached to the applications.
(2) Applications of candidates who fail to produce the
required documents when called upon to do so, will
not be considered.
06. Applications of candidates in Public Service should be
forwarded through their respective Heads of Departments.
Applications received after the prescribed date will be considered
only when received by the Head of the Department before the
closing date and forwarded adducing valid reasons for the delay.
07. Applications and any other correspondence related thereto
should be addressed officially to the Secretary, Ministry of vocational
and Technical Training and not personally to any officer.
08. Attention is drawn to General Conditions applicable to
appointment of posts in the Public Service published at the
beginning of Part I Section II(A) of this Gazette and to the Minute
of the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service, announced in Part I
General of Gazette No. 415 published on 15.08.1986 and the
amendments made thereto from time to time.
09. Appointments to Class I of Sri Lanka Technical Education
Service will be made on the results of a Viva-Voce test according to
the minute of the Sri Lanka Technical Educations Service. Marks
will be given on merits as well as on seniority.
T
HILAK HAPANGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training.
Ministry of Vocational and Technical Training,
"Nipunatha Piyasa",
No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05,
2009.
S
PECIMEN FORM OF THE APPLICATION
(TO BE PREPARED IN PAPERS OF 8 1/2" X 13 1/2")
CLASS I POSTS OF SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCA TION SERVICE AND POSTS OF
DIRECTOR AND ADDITIONAL DIRECTOR FOR COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY OF
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING UNDER THE
MINISTRY OF VOCA TIONAL TECHNICAL TRAINING
01. Name (with initials) Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
02. Name in full :–––––––––––.
03. Official Address :–––––––––––.
04. Private Address and Phone No. :–––––––––––.
05. ( a) Whether a Sri Lankan :–––––––––––.
(b) If so, by descent or by registration :–––––––––––.
06. Gender (Male/Female) :–––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
08. Age on the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
09. Particulars of present post :
(a) Post and the date of appointment :–––––––––––.
(b) Whether permanent or temporary :–––––––––––.
(c) Whether pensionable or non-pensionable :–––––––––.
(d) Whether confirmed in the post :–––––––––––.
(e) Department :–––––––––––.
(f) Institution/Place of work :–––––––––––.
(g) Annual consolidated salary scale :–––––––––––.
(h) Present annual consolidated salary :–––––––––––.
10. Particulars of higher Educational Qualifications : (Degree/Post
Graduate Diploma/Post Graduate) :
University/ Degree/Post Year Subjects/
Institution Graduate Diploma Fields
11. Particulars of Professional Qualifications :
Certificate Institution which Y ear Subjects/
issued the Certificate Fields

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2067
12. Secondary Educational Qualification :
Examination Year Subjects Grade
G . C. E. (O/L)
13. Institutions attended of for Professional Educations :
Institution Course From To
14. Previous appointments to be stated in chronological order
with exact dates :
Post Institution From To
15. If an Officer in the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service
whether efficiency Bar has been completed :–––––––––.
If so, indicate :
(i) The year of Efficiency Bar completed :–––––––––.
(ii) Type of Certificate obtained for the above :––––––––.
16. Whether you have been convicted in Court of law on criminal
offence. If so give details :–––––––––.
17. If served in a Government Department or Board/Corporation
in Public Sector, state reasons for resignation from/termination
of the service :–––––––––.
18. Is there any disciplinary inquiry pending against you (If so
state details in brief) :–––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained therein are found to be false and incorrect, I
am liable to be disqualified before selection and to dismissal without
any compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the
appointment.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––.
11–799
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
Recruitment of Students for Audiology Technicians Training – 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible citizens of Sri Lanka for recruitment of students for Audiology Technicians in the Department
of Health Services.
01. Educational Qualifications :
1.1 ( a) Passed General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in 06 subjects at not more than two sittings
with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, Science and one other subject ; and
(b) Passed General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination in 03 subjects of Science stream at one sitting
including Physics.
1.2 Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 45 years of age as at 28.12.2009.
02. A competitive Examination will be held for applicants with required qualifications and those who have secured highest
marks will be subjected to an interview and selected for training.
03. Scheme of the examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media.
(b) Candidates should answer all the question papers of the examination in one langauge.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2068
Method of Selection.– Candidates should secure minimum of 40% marks to have a psss in each subject. The candidates who
have secured highest marks will be called for the interview to inspect their qualifications. No marks will be given at the
interview and those who have fulfilled required qualifications and secured highest marks for the two subjects will be
selected for the training course.
Subjects for the examinations. – There will be two question papers for the examination.
Subject Duration Marks
(i) Intelligence 01 hour 100
(ii) T echnical paper 1 1/2 hour
100
200
===
Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence.– The question paper consists of questions to measure the logical thinking and the capability to decide on
analytical situations of the applicant.
(b) Technical.– Knowledge in subject applicable to the post.
03. the students who attend to other courses during 05 days of the week and forenoon of Saturdays should not apply, since the
above training course is a full time training course.
04. The period of training is 06 months.
05. Method of application :
(a) Applications should be prepared as per form of specimen attached to this letter.
(b) Examination Fees. – Every applicant should pay an examination fee of Rs. 200 by a money order drawn in favour of
Secretary, Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero
Mawatha, Colombo 10 and encashable from the General Post Office, Colombo. The examination fee once paid will not
be refunded under any circumstances.
(c) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountants Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law or
by a Government Officer drawing a salary not less than Rs. 124,080 per annum.
(d) The application perfected should be sent under Registered Cover to reach the Director (Exams), Ministry of Healthcare
and Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before
28.12.2009. The words “Recruitment for Audiology Technicians Training” should be written on the top left hand corner
of the envelope enclosing the application.
06. Admission Cards.– The Secretary Health will issue admission cards to candidates so as to be received by them before one
week of the date of examination. A paper notice will be published in this regard and the applicants should be attentive on this  matter.
Candidates are required to submit one of the following documents to prove their identity to the supervisor at the examination c entre.
(a) A valid National Identity Card issued by the Department of Persons registration.
(b) A valid Passport.
07. The candidates who do not have received admission card by the said date should inquire from the Director (Examinations)
with following details. Tele. No. : 011-2679160.
(a) Name of the examination
(b) Selected Town
(c) District applied
(d) Registration Number of the application
(e) Number of the receipt paying the exam fees.
08. The applications of those candidates of the government or semi-government institutions should submit their applications
through their Head of the Department.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2069
09. Applications will not be acknowledge.
10. Applications received after due date will be rejected.
11. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notice will be rejected.
12. Applicants, who have fulfilled educational and other qualifications above, will be called for interviews. The applicants
should submit originals of the following documents at the interview. The candidature of those candidates who fail to submit ori ginals of
the relevant documents at the interview will be cancelled.
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Originals of the educational certificates and in the absence of originals, the results sheet issued to external candidates or
the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination ;
(iii) Certificate issued by the Department of Examinations indicating the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination marks level ;
(iv) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving License ;
(v) Certified copies of the V oters Lists from 2005 to 2007 to confirm the residence of applicant within the district for a
period of 03 years. If the name of the applicant is not available in the V oters List, his parents names should be available
and such applicants should submit the Certificate of Residence issued by the Grama Seva Officer and countersigned by
the Divisional Secretary to confirm residency in that division during the relevant period.
13. ( a) The trainees who are selected for training will be subject to the rules and regulations in force within training schools
and other regulations enforced from time to time by the Department of Health.
(b) The training of those trainees who fail in the examinations or whose work and conduct is unsatisfactory or who fail
to comply with the conditions of examination and leave in their schools of training during the period of training is
liable to be stopped at any time without payment of any compensation.
(c) Trainees will be paid an allowance during the period of training.
(d) The trainees on admission to the training school shall enter into an agreement with the Director General of Health
Services that he completes the training successfully and he does not withdraw from the Training and if he is given an
appointment after completion of training he shall serve the Department of Health Services for a minimum of 05 years
period. In the event he withdraws from the training or leaves the training or had to be discontinued from the training
as per paragraph (b) above during the period of training, he shall refund to the Department the expenditure incurred
for the payment of allowances and other expenses born by the Government during the period of his training.
Otherwise, action will be taken to recover such expenses incurred by the Department in accordance with the
agreement.
14. Terms of Engagement. – The Department is not bound to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. The
trainees who succeed in the final examination will be appointed by the department to the grade III of the Audio Technician in the districts
where vacancies are available based on their merits at the end of the training.
15. Information educational and other qualifications .– When filling in applications the educational and other qualifications
should be entered with due care. If the certificates furnished by applicant are approved to be false or incorrect after recruit ment for
training or after giving appointment, action will be taken to discontinue that applicant from the training or to dismiss him from the service
and also to black list their names which would prevent them from re-entering to the Government Service.
16. Medical Examination.– The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination, to assure their physical and mental
fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said medical examination will become disqualifi ed to
continue with their training.
17. All the officers so recruited will be subject to the provisions of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, circulars inforced by the department of Health Services, Financial Regulations and other rules and regulations an d orders
enacted from time to time by the Government.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2070
18. The decision of the Secretary Health will be the final in respect of any issue arising outside the guidelines mentioned in this
gazette notification.
Dr. ATHULA KAHANDALIY ANAGE,
Secretary.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
"Suwasiripaya", No. 385,
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
10th November, 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT  FOR AUDIOLOGY TECHNICIANS' TRAINING – 2009
MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND NUTRITION
For Office use
Medium : District applied for in preferential
Sinhala - S 01
Tamil - T 02
English - E 03
(Write the relevant letter in the box)
01. ( a) Name with initials (In block letters) :––––––––––.
(b) Name in full (In block letters) :––––––––––.
(c) Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
(d) National Identity Card No. :
02. ( a) Permanent Address :
In Sinhala/Tamil In English
................................. ..................................
................................ ..................................
................................. ..................................
................................. ..................................
(b) Address to which the admission card to be sent :––––––––––.
03. ( a) Sex : (write the relevant in the box)
Female - F
Male - M
(b) Date of Birth : Date :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Year :––––––––––.
(c) Age as at 28.12.2009 : Days :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Years :––––––––––.
04. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G.C.E. (O/L) Examination (First Sitting) : G. C. E. (O/L) Examination (Second Sitting) :
Year :––––––––––.      Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.      Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade
01 06 01 06
02 07 02 07
03 08 03 08
04 09 04 09
05 10 05 10

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2009
2071
(b) G .C.E. (A/L) Examination :
Year  :––––––––––.          Index No.  :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
05. Other Qualification :––––––––––.
06. Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law for any officer ? :––––––––––.
Y es No (Please mark 3 in the relevant box)
If yes specify :––––––––––.
07. Details of the receipt for payment of examination fees :
(a) Office to which the Examination fees are paid ? :––––––––––.
(b) V oucher No. and Date :––––––––––.
(c) Amount paid :––––––––––.
08. Declaration of the Applicant :
(a) I do hereby respectfully declare that the information provided by me in this application are true and correct to the best of m y
knowledge. I agree to bear any loss for not filling any part hereof filling erroneously. Further I declare that I have filled in all
the part hereof correctly.
(b) I am aware that I am liable to be disqualified if this declaration is proved to be false before appointment and dismissed if t he
same is detected after the appointment.
(c) I agree to abide all the conditions of this examination.
(d) I will not change any information provided in this application at a later stage.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
09. Attestation :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................................ who submit this application is personally known to me and he/she
placed his/her signature on ....................... before me.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
Full name of the Attestor :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(confirm with official frank please)
11–829
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.