

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1390
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1388
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"194 – 2020 iema;eïn¾ ui 18 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'09'18
No. 2,194  –  fRiday , sEPtEmbER 18, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th october, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th september, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1385 - b 82059- 5,403 (09/2020)


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1386
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1387
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1388
Posts – vacant
GENERAL SIR JOhN kOTELAWALA 
DEfENCE uNIvERSITy 
vacancies for university hospital 
APPLICATIONS are invited from the suitably qualified 
professionals for the following posts at the General sir John 
Kotelawala defence University Hospital (UHKdU) :
1. medical Consultant :
• Consultant Anaesthetist (Preferably with special 
interest in cardiothoracic surgery)
•  Consultant Orthopedic Surgeon
• Consultant Intensivist
• Consultant Dermatologist
• Consultant Cardiac Electro Physiologist
• Consultant in SexuallyTransmitted Diseases
• Consultant Emergency Physician
• Consultant Nephrologist
• Consultant Vascular and Transplant Surgeon
• Consultant ENT surgeon
• Consultant in Sports Medicine 
• Consultant Cardiothoracic Surgeon
• Consultant Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery
• Consultant Paediatric Cardiologist
• Consultant in Restorative Dentistry
• Consultant Judicial Medical Officer
• Consultant Plastic Surgeon
• Consultant Radiologist
Qualifications :
 (i) Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons who are 
registered/ registerable in the sri Lanka medical 
council according to the medical (amendment) 
act, No. 28 of 2018.
  oR
 (ii) Medical Officers/ Dental Surgeons with valid 
full registration of sri Lanka medical council 
(sLmc)
  aNd
 (iii) doctor of medicine(md)/ master of surgery (ms) 
in the relevant specialty with Board Certification 
of Post-Graduate institute of medicine (PGim), 
University of colombo, sri Lanka [appendix i 
of the Gazette (Extraordinary) No: 1883/17 dated 
11.10.2014 of the democratic socialist Republic 
of sri Lanka].
  aNd
 (iv) Certificate of good standing from Sri Lanka 
medical council (sLmc)
Salary Scale. – mc 1-2 -(Rs. 91,645 - 12 x 2,700 -                      
Rs. 124,045)
2. Medical Officer - Grade I
Qualifications :
 (i) Medical Officers with valid full registration of Sri 
Lanka medical council (sLmc) for practicing as 
a Medical Officer.
   aNd
 (ii) a minimum of six (06) years of experience as a 
Grade II Medical Officer in institutions coming 
under the ministry of Health or Hospitals 
registered with Private Health services Regulatory 
council of ministry of Health, sri Lanka under 
the category of "Private Hospital, Nursing Homes 
and maternity Homes."
  aNd
 (iii) A recognized post graduate qualification 
mentioned in appendix ii of the Gazette 
(Extraordinary) No: 1883/17 dated 11.10.2014 of 
the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
   aNd
 (iv) Certificate of good standing from Sri Lanka 
medical council (sLmc)
Salary Scale. – mo 1-1 - (Rs. 58,675 -3 x 1,375 -7 x 
1,385 -2 x 1,910 - 10 x 2,270 - Rs. 99,015)
*Medical Officer Grade I will be placed on MO 1-1 step 
14 -Rs.78,585
3. Dental Surgeon - Grade I
Qualification :
 (i) dental surgeons with valid full registration of               
sri Lanka medical council (sLmc) for practicing 
as a dental surgeon 
    aNd

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1389
 (ii) a  minimum of nine (09) years of experience as a 
Grade ii dental surgeon in institutions  coming 
under the ministry of Health or Hospitals registered 
with Private Health services  Regulatory council 
of ministry of Health, sri Lanka under the 
category of "Private Hospitals, Nursing Homes 
and maternity Homes."
     aNd
 (iii) A recognized post graduate qualification mentioned 
in appendix ii of the Gazette  (extraordinary) 
No: 1883/17 dated 11.10.2014 of the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri  Lanka.
     aNd
 (iv) Certificate of good standing from Sri Lanka 
medical council (sLmc)
Salary Scale.– mo 1-1( Rs. 58,675 -3 x 1,375 -7 x 1,385 
-2 x 1,910 - 10 x 2,270 - Rs. 99,015)
* dental surgeon  Grade i will be placed on mo 
1-1 step 14 -Rs.78,585.
4. Medical Officer - Grade II
Qualifications :
 (i) Medical Officers with valid full registration of Sri 
Lanka medical council (sLmc) for practicing as 
a Medical Officers
     aNd
 (ii) a minimum of two (02) years of experience as a 
Medical Officer in institutions  coming under the 
ministry of Health or Hospitals registered with 
Private Health services Regulatory council of 
ministry of Health, sri Lanka under the category of 
"Private Hospitals, Nursing Homes and maternity 
Homes."
     aNd
 (iii) Certificate of good standing from Sri Lanka 
medical council (sLmc)
Salary Scale.– mo 1-1 Rs.(58,675 -3 x 1,375 -7 x 1,385 
-2 x 1,910 - 10 x 2,270 - 99,015)
* Medical Officer Grade II will be placed on MO 
1-1 step 5 -Rs.64,185.
5. Dental Surgeon - Grade II
Qualification :
 (i) dental surgeons with valid full registration of sri 
Lanka medical council (sLmc) for  practicing as 
a dental surgeon ;
  aNd
 (ii) Certificate of good standing from Sri Lanka 
medical council (sLmc).
Salary Scale.– mo 1-1 (Rs. 58,675 -3 x 1,375 -7 x 1,385 
-2 x 1,910 - 10 x 2,270 - Rs. 99,015)
* dental surgeon  Grade ii will be placed on mo 
1-1 step 1 -Rs.58,675
6. Medical officer - Preliminary Grade
Qualifications :
 (i) Medical Officers with valid full registration of Sri 
Lanka medical council (sLmc) for practicing as 
a Medical Officers
     aNd
 (ii) Certificate of good standing from Sri Lanka 
medical council (sLmc)
Salary Scale.– mo 1-1 (Rs. 58,675 -3 x 1,375 -7 x 1,385 
-2 x 1,910 - 10 x 2,270 -  Rs. 99,015)
* Medical Officer Preliminary Grade will be 
placed on mo 1-1 step 2 -Rs.60,050
General Conditions :
 (i) shall be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 (ii) Shall be physically and mentally fit to discharge 
the duties of the post well and to serve in the  
General sir John Kotelawala defence University 
Hospital or at any other place as may be  
determined by the University administration.
 (iii) shall be of excellent moral character.
 (iv) Shall have all the qualifications by the closing 
date of applications.
 (v) the above posts are on permanent basis and the 
recruits will be on probation for a period of  three 
(03) years except Consultants, Medical Officer 
Grade i, dental surgeon - Grade i, medical 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1390
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
Officer - Grade II and Dental Surgeon - Grade II 
who have been employed in the  public service 
who shall be subject to a probationary period of 
one (01) year.
 vi. medical consultants shall be required to teach 
and train medical  and allied Health sciences 
undergraduates and Postgraduate students under 
the supervision and direction of the deans and  
respective Heads of departments of faculties 
medicine and allied Health sciences.
 vii. contribution of the employee to Employees 
Provident fund (EPf) is10% and the University 
will contribute 15% for (EPf) and 3% for 
Employees trust fund (Etf)'(subject to revisions 
that may be introduced by Parliment by law).
 viii. applicants who are already in the Government 
service are adviced to submit their applications 
through the Head of the institute. 
 ix. Genaral sir John Kotelawala defence University 
reserves the right to shortlist prospective  
applicants.
 x. Duly completed applications with certified copies 
of relevant certificates shall be submitted  under 
registered cover to reach "Executive director, 
General sir John Kotelawala defence University 
Hospital, Werahera" on or befor 30.09.2020. the 
post applied shall be indicated on the top left 
hand corner of the envelop.
 xi. incomplete or late application and those which 
do not comply with the prescribed format will  
be rejected.
 xii. applications and other relevant details could be 
downloaded from the KdU Website :
 www.kdu.ac.lk
 major General (Rtd) 
Kamal gunarathne,
 WWVRWP RsP UsP ndc psc,
 secretary, ministry  of defence and
 chairman of the board  of management,
 General sir John Kotelawala defence University.
09–639
amENdmENt 
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
State ministry of Skills Development vocational 
Education, Research and Innovations
sRi LaNKa iNstitUtE of adVaNcEd 
tEcHNoLoGicaL EdUcatioN 
admission of students to the adv anced technological 
institutes for the academic Year 2020
REfERENcE paragraph No. 10 of Notice No. 09-348 
published on Gazette No. 2192 dated 04.09.2020 should be 
amended as follows :
10. Higher National diploma in English (HNd in 
English). 
10.1 full time - 2 1/2 years. 
Applicants should have the following qualifications : 
 (i) Passed the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in one 
sitting in any stream ;
  and 
  ordinary pass for General English at the                        
G. c. E. (a/L) Examination ;
  or
  credit pass for English of the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination ; 
  or (remove ''and mathematics")
  ordinary pass for appreciation of English 
Literary texts at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. 
 dr. K. L. 
JaYaratna, 
 director General, 
 sri Lanka institute of advanced 
 technological Education. 
09–602

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1391
amENdmENt 
mINISTRy Of PubLIC SERvICES, 
PROvINCIAL COuNCILS AND LOCAL 
GOvERNmENT
Limited Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to Grade III of management Service 
Officers Service -2019 (2020)
REVisioNs are made to, section (ii), note of the section 
(iii) and section (vi) of Paragraph 8.0 Eligibility of the 
Gazette notification “Limited Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to Grade iii of management service 
Officers Service- 2019 (2020)” published in the Gazette of 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka No. 2185 dated 
17th July 2020 as mentioned below.
8.0 eligibility :-
 (ii) shall have completed at least 5 years active and 
satisfactory service period for the closing date 
of application and that fact shall be certified by 
the Head of the Department. Further, the officer 
should not have been subjected to a disciplinary 
punishment as per the provisions set out in Public 
service commission circular No. 01/2020 as for 
the closing date of application.
 (iii)
Note: Public service commission has decided to 
grant two consecutive sittings to all officers in 
Primary Service Category who have confirmed 
in service before 26.11.2001, completed 18 
years of active service period as at the closing 
date of application and have completed the 
expected qualifications as mentioned in 
paragraph 8.2 of this notification, who have 
been paid salaries under the primary level of 
PL category salary codes, to sit for the Limited 
competitive Examination of management 
Service Officers Service. Accordingly, 
the officers, who have fulfilled relevant 
qualification and have been paid under PL 
category, can apply for examination at this 
occasion.
 (vi)  All qualifications prescribed for recruitment 
to the post shall be completed as at 28th of 
September 2020.
02. the other provisions laid down in the Gazette 
notification shall remain unchanged and the closing date 
will be extended to 28.09.2020 due to this amendment.
03. Officers who have already applied for this examination 
are advised not to apply again due to this amendment.
 s. 
aloKabandara,
 director General of combined services,
 ministry of Public services, Provincial 
 councils & Local Government.
ministry of Public services, 
Provincial councils & Local Government,
independence square, colombo 07,
04th of september 2020.
09-488
–––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to 
Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects' 
Service - 2019(2020)
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called for recruitment of 
qualified candidates to fill 16 vacancies in Grade III of 
sri Lanka architects’ service on the order of the Public 
services commission. applications prepared in accordance 
with the specimen form of application indicated at the end 
of this notification should be sent by registered post on or 
before the date mentioned below to reach commissioner 
General of Examinations, organization (institutional and 
foreign Examinations) branch, department of Examination 
Sri Lanka, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo. “Open Competitive 
Examination for recruitment to Grade iii of sri Lanka 
Architects’ Service” should be clearly indicated on the 
top left corner of the envelope. further, the name of the 
examination should be indicated in English language as 
well, in applications prepared in both sinhala and tamil 
mediums.
(a) closing date of applications is 19.10.2020.
Note : No complaint that an applicatio n or a related 
document has been lost or delayed in post 
shall be considered. the candidate shall bear 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1392
the losses which may occur due to their delay 
in sending applications until the closing date.
1. Method of recruitment.– Number of candidates 
equivalent to the number expected to be recruited shall be 
called for the general interview on the order of the merit 
of the total marks obtained at the examination out of the 
candidates who have passed all the subjects at the written 
examination.
the number of appointments to be made and the effective 
date of the appointment shall be determined on the order of 
the Public service commission.
2. Conditions for employment in the service :-
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
are bound to the policy decisions taken by the 
government with regard to the pension scheme 
you are entitled to, in future. further, you shall 
contribute to Widows’ and orphans’/ Widowers’ 
and orphans’ Pension scheme. you shall 
make the contributions as determined by the 
government from time to time.
 II. The officers who are appointed to the post shall 
be subjected to a probation period of three years 
(03) and the First Efficiency Bar Examination 
should be passed within the period of said three 
years.
 III. Officers, who join the service in a non-official 
language, should obtain the proficiency in one 
of the official languages within the probation 
period and the relevant proficiency level in other 
official language should be acquired within 05 
years as per the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014.
 iV . the appointm ent shall be subjected to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission, Establishments code of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations of the government and the 
conditions stipulated in the minute of sri Lanka 
architects' service and the revisions made to the 
same subsequently.
3. Salary Scale.– as per the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016, this post is entitled to the salary scale 
sL-1- 2016 Rs. 47,615 -10 xl,335 - 8 x 1,630-17x 2170-              
Rs. 110,895/- (monthly).
4. Educational Qualifications :-
shall have obtained a bsc. degree in architecture of 
five years from a University recognized by the 
University Grants commission 
or
shall have obtained a bsc. degree in built Environment 
of three years from a University recognized by 
the University Grants commission and a Post 
Graduate Diploma in the relevant field.
or
shall have obtained a bsc. degree in built Environment 
of three years from a University recognized by 
the University Grants commission and 05 years 
experience in the relevant field.
5. Professional qualifications.– shall have acquired the 
full professional qualification (Chartered Architect’s Status).
This qualification shall apply only to the candidates, who 
are recruited under the note of No.06.
6. Age Iimit.– shall not be less than 21 years and not more 
than 36 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
Note:  the maxium age limit shall not apply to the 
officers holding a post in the public service, 
which is permanent and pensionable, who have 
satisfied qualifications metioned under No.05.
7. Physical Fitness.– Every applicant shall be physically 
and mentally fit
 i. to serve in any part of the island
 ii. to perform the duties of the post.
8. Other Qualifications :-
 i. applicants shall be citizens of sri Lanka.
 ii. applicants shall be of excellent moral character.
 III. Shall have satisfied all the qualifications required 
for the recruitment in each and every way as at 
the closing date of applications.
 iV . shall have not appeared for the open competitive 
Examination of sri Lanka architects’ service 
more than two times.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1393
4. Educational Qualifications :-
shall have obtained a bsc. degree in architecture of 
five years from a University recognized by the 
University Grants commission 
or
shall have obtained a bsc. degree in built Environment 
of three years from a University recognized by 
the University Grants commission and a Post 
Graduate Diploma in the relevant field.
or
shall have obtained a bsc. degree in built Environment 
of three years from a University recognized by 
the University Grants commission and 05 years 
experience in the relevant field.
5. Professional qualifications.– shall have acquired the 
full professional qualification (Chartered Architect’s Status).
This qualification shall apply only to the candidates, who 
are recruited under the note of No.06.
6. Age Iimit.– shall not be less than 21 years and not more 
than 36 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
Note:  the maxium age limit shall not apply to the 
officers holding a post in the public service, 
which is permanent and pensionable, who have 
satisfied qualifications metioned under No.05.
7. Physical Fitness.– Every applicant shall be physically 
and mentally fit
 i. to serve in any part of the island
 ii. to perform the duties of the post.
8. Other Qualifications :-
 i. applicants shall be citizens of sri Lanka.
 ii. applicants shall be of excellent moral character.
 III. Shall have satisfied all the qualifications required 
for the recruitment in each and every way as at 
the closing date of applications.
 iV . shall have not appeared for the open competitive 
Examination of sri Lanka architects’ service 
more than two times.
9.
9.1 Written Examination:-
 9.1.1 this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
 9.1.2 Syllabus:-
No. Subjects Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
Duration
hrs.
01 intelligence
test 100 40 01
02 General
Knowledge 100 40 02
Subject No. 01- Intelligence Test
this paper shall be designed to test the candidate's ability 
of critical reasoning, analytical power on issues and ability 
of decision making.  
Subject No 02- General knowledge
this question paper shall be designed to test the 
understanding of the candidate on political, social, cultural 
and economic environment of sri Lanka, matters which are 
important in national and international aspects and national 
and international, scientific and technical development. This 
question paper shall consist of two parts. The first part shall 
consist of questions for short answers and 25 marks shall be 
allocated. the second part shall consist of questions in semi 
structured nature. for this part, the candidate shall answer 5 
out of 8 questions. 75 marks shall be allocated for this part.
9.1.3 Issuance of results :-
 the candidates are required to secure a 
minimum of 40% of the marks for each 
subject in order to pass the examination. 
a priority list based on the aggregate of 
marks of the applicants, who have secured 
marks in the above manner, which contains 
a number of applicants equivalent to the 
number of vacancies, will be submitted 
by the department of Examinations, sri 
Lanka to the secretary of the Public service 
commission. Results of the examination will 
be informed personally to all the applicants,  
who sat for the examination, or published on 
the website www.results.exams.gov.lk.
9.2 Interview :
9.2.1  General interview:-
 Qualifications mentioned in the Minute of 
sri Lanka architects' service and the notice 
published in line with the same, shall be 
verified and the physical fitness shall be 
examined at the General interview. (No 
marks shall be allocated).
 Qualifications shall be examined by an 
interview board appointed by the Public 
service commission.
10. Conditions of the examination :-
 i.  Examination will be held in sinhala, tamil 
and English media. candidates can sit for the 
examination in a language medium of their 
preference. candidates must answer all the 
question papers in one language. candidates 
are not allowed to change the medium 
mentioned in the application. Every candidate 
must sit for all the question papers.
 ii. the examination fee is Rs. 1200/-. it should 
be paid before the closing date of applications 
at any Post Office/ sub Post Office to be 
credited to Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of 
commissioner General of Examinations. one 
edge of the receipt obtained thus in the name of 
the candidate should be pasted in the relevant 
cage of the application form. it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt. money orders 
or stamps are not accepted for examination 
fees.
 iii. the fee shall not be refunded under any 
circumstances.
 iV . applications which are not duly perfected will 
be rejected without notice.
Note: candidates shall not be permitted to 
enter the examination hall without the 
admission card. only the admission cards 
on which the signature has been attested 
shall be submitted to the supervisor of 
the examination on the first day of the 
examination.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1394
 admission cards shall be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations 
to the applicants those who have paid 
the prescribed examination fee on or 
before the closing date of applications 
and correctly perfected the application 
along with the receipt. the issuance of 
an admission card to a candidate does 
not mean that he or she has fulfilled 
the requisite qualifications to sit the 
examination.
 V . application should be prepared on papers of 
size 22-29 cm (a-4) and the sections l.0 to 2.9 
should appear on the first page, sections from 
2.10 to 6.0 should appear on the second page 
and the rest should appear on the other page. 
the relevant particulars shall be furnished 
clearly by the candidates in his/her hand 
writing. applications that do not comply with 
the specimen and that are not completed in 
every aspect shall be rejected without notice. 
it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
application with the candidate.
 Vi. the commissioner General of Examinations 
shall issue admission cards to all the 
candidates, who are within the age limit 
indicated in the notification and who have 
sent the correctly perfected applications 
along with the receipt relevant to payment of 
the examination fees paid on or before the 
closing date of applications, on the assumption 
that only the individuals, who have satisfied 
the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette 
notification, have applied for the examination. 
a notice shall be published in the newspapers 
by the department of Examinations as soon as 
admission cards are issued to applicants. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 
3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall 
be taken to inquire from the organisations 
(institutional and foreign Examinations) 
branch of the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the notification. 
When informing, the name of the examination 
applied for, full name, address and the Nic 
number of the candidate shall be indicated. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside 
colombo to fax a letter of request along with a 
fax number of the candidate to the department 
of Examinations through the fax number 
mentioned in the notification, for sending a 
copy of the admission. further, it would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the application, 
copy of the receipt relevant to payment of 
examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information 
requested by the department of Examinations.
 Vii. this examination will be held in colombo 
and the date of examination will be informed 
in due course. commissioner General of 
Examinations shall reserve the power to 
postpone or cancel the examination on the 
approval of the Public service commission.
 Viii. candidates are subjected to rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination. they are liable to be subjected to 
a punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations for breach of these 
rules.
 iX. Identity of Candidates.– a candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination 
hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject he offers. for this purpose, any of 
the following documents shall be accepted.
 i. National identity card.
 ii. a valid passport.
 iii. driving license valid in sri Lanka
candidates should enter the examination hall without 
covering their face and ears in order to prove their identity. 
further, any candidate who refuses to assist for proving his/
her identity will not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. the candidates should remain in the examination hall 
from the time of entering up to leaving the examination hall 
without covering face and ears enabling the invigilators to 
identify the candidate.
N.B. (a) No document or a copy of the same should 
be attached to the application.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1395
 (b) the applications of the candidates who are 
unable to submit relevant documents at the 
interview shall not be considered.
 X. Officers who are serving in the Public Service/ 
Provincial. Public service, should send in 
their applications through respective Heads of 
institutions/ departments. it is compulsory for all 
the applicants to get their signature attested before 
appearing for the examination. applicants who 
appear for the examination through an institution 
should get their signature attested by their head 
of the institution as well. other applicants should 
get their signature attested by Principal of a 
Government school/ Retired Principal, Grama 
Niladhari of the division, Justice- of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney at Law, Notary 
Public, a Commissioned Officer of the Three 
Armed Forces, a permanent staff grade officer of 
the Public service or Provincial Public service, or 
a chief incumbent of a buddhist temple or a clergy 
of any other religion who reserves a considerable 
status.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the 
examination. if it is found that a candidate has furnished 
information with knowledge that they are false, or if he has 
willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable for 
dismissal from the Public service.
12. in the event of any inconsistency between sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
on the order of the Public service commission,
 J. J. 
rathnasiri.
 secretary,
 ministry of Public services, 
 Provincial councils and Local Government.
ministry of Public services, 
Provincial councils and Local Government, 
independence square,
colombo 07,
03rd september, 2020.
(For office use only)
sPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN
open competitive examination for recruitment to grade iii of sri lanKa architects’ service (2019) 2020
1.0  medium :- medium of Examination :
 sinhala - 2    tamil - 3     English - 4                          (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
•  The application should be filled in the medium of language in which the candidate intends to sit for the examination.
2.0   
 2.1 Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––.
  (e.g.– HERatH mUdiyaNsELaGE samaN KUmaRa  GUNaWaRdHaNa)
 2.2 Name with initials at the end (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (e.g.– GUNa WaRdHaNa,H.m.s.K)
 2.3 Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.4 National identity card No. :–

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1396
 2.5 Permanent address in English block capitals: (admission card will be sent to this address) :––––––––––––.
 2.6 Permanent address (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––.
  2.7  telephone No. :-
    mobile fixed 
 2.8 sex:- (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  male - 0  female -1
 2.9 date of birth :           year :                       month :                 date :
 2.10 age as at the closing date of applications :   years :               months :        days :
 2.11 Postal town  :––––––––––––.
 2.12 Race :- (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  sinhala - 1       tamil - 2       indian tamil - 3         muslim - 4            other - 5
 2.13 marital status:- (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
   single - 1 married - 2
 2.14 E-mail address :–––––––––––.
3.0 Educational Qualifications :
 3.1 degree :–––––––––––. 
 3.2 Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––. 
  (Please read 04 in the notification carefully)
 3.3 index No. :–––––––––––. 
 3.4 Language medium of the examination :–––––––––––.
 
4.0 Professional Qualifications :
 4.1 Date of acquiring the full professional qualification (Chartered Architect's Status) :––––––––––––. 
5.0 Paste the cash receipt properly :-
 
 Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
 Office to which the fee was paid :––––––––––––.
 date :––––––––––––.
6.0 if you have ever been convicted of any criminal offence, please mention the offence and the punishment :                                                                                                    
––––––––––––.
7.0  Certificate of the candidate:-
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed 
the receipt No. ............... dated ................. being the payment of the examination fee. i also agree to be bound by the 
rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1397
examination, if it is found that i am ineligible according to the regulations of the examination. further, i shall be liable to 
be dismissed from service without any compensation, if it is found that any particular indicated in the application is found 
to be false or incorrect even after the appointment. and, i agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of examinations on conducting the examination and issuing the results.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
8.0 attestation of the applicant’s signature, (as per Para 9 (X)) of the Gazette Notification) :
i hereby certify that ................................................................. (full name), who submits this application, is known to me 
personally, that he/ she has paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/ She placed his/ 
her signature in my presence on..............................
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :–––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the official stamp)
9.0 Certificate of the Head of the Institution (Only for the applicants engaged in public/ provincial public service) :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss............................................................. who is submitting this application, is working as 
a ................................. in this ministry/department/institute and his/her application is hereby recommended and submitted. 
He/she can be released from the post held at present, if he/ she is selected for this post.
 –––––––––––––––,
 (signature of the Head of the department/institution).
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
09–455
–––––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for 
recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service - 2020
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called from officers in Public Service/ Provincial Public Service of Sri Lanka, who possess 
following qualifications, to fill 10 vacancies in Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service as per the order of the Public 
service commission. the applications prepared in accordance with the specimen form of application, which is given at 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1398
the end of this notification, should be sent by registered 
post to reach the commissioner-General of Examinations, 
institutional and foreign Examinations branch, P.o. box. 
1503, colombo on or before the date mentioned below. the 
words "Limited competitive Examination for recruitment to 
Grade iii of sri Lanka architects’ service 2020" should be 
clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. 
further, it is essential to mention the name of examination 
in English language as well, in applications prepared in both 
sinhala and tamil mediums.
(a) closing date of applications is 19.10.2020.
Note : No complaint that an application or a related 
document has been lost or delayed in post shall 
be considered. the candidate shall bear the 
losses which may occur due to their delay in 
sending applications until the closing date.
01. Method of recruitment. – Recruitment of officers to 
Grade iii of sri Lanka architects’ service on limited basis 
shall be made on the results of a written examination and 
structured interview.
a number equivalent to twice the number of recruitments 
to be made out of those who have secured 40% or above 
for each subject of this examination shall be called for 
the structured interview on the order of merit of marks. 
Recruitments shall be made on the order of merit of the 
aggregate they receive when the marks they obtain at the 
structured interview are added to the marks they secure at 
the written examination.
Number of appointments and effective date shall be 
determined on the order of the Public service commission.
In case where there is no sufficient number of qualified 
applicants under the limited stream, the recruitment to be 
made under limited stream shall also be made under the 
open stream.
02. Conditions for employment in the service :-
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contribution shall be made to the widows’ and 
orphans/ widowers’ and orphans pension 
scheme.
 ii. Officers who are appointed to this post shall be 
subjected to an acting period of one year.
 iii. Officers shall obtain proficiency in the other 
official language at the relevant level within   
05 years as per P.a circular 01/2014.
 iV . this appointment shall be subjected to the 
Procedural Rules of Public service commission 
and the conditions stipulated in sri Lanka 
architects’ service minute and revisions made 
to the same.
03. Salary Scale.– a salary scale (monthly) of  sL-1-2016 
Rs. 47,615 - 10x1335 - 8x1630 - 17x2170 - Rs. 110,895 shall be 
entitled to this post as per Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016.
4. Educational qualifications :-
i.
 (i) shall have obtained a degree in architecture of 
five years from a university recognized by the 
University Grants commission.
  or
 (ii) shall have obtained a bsc. degree in built 
Environment of three years from a university  
recognized by the University Grants 
commission along with a Post Graduate 
Diploma in the relevant field of study.
  or
 (iii) shall have obtained a bsc. degree in 
built Environment of three years from a 
university recognized by the University 
Grants commission along with experience of                        
05 years in the relevant field.
  and
  Officers who have completed the above 
qualifications, who have completed an active 
and satisfactory period of service of 05 years 
in the Public or Provincial Public service 
and who draw salaries under the salary code 
of mN 2 or above referred to in the Public 
administration circular 06/2006.
ii. Officers who have passed the Standard Course - 
Part i at sri Lanka institute of architects and have 
completed 10 years of active and satisfactory 
service in the Public service/ Provincial Public 
service
iii. draughtsman in special class of the sri Lanka 
technological service with an immediately 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1399
preceding 05 years of satisfactory period of 
service.
05. Physical fitness.– Every applicant shall be physically 
and mentally fit
 (i) to serve in any part of the island
 (ii) to perform the duties of the post.
06. Age Limit.–  Not applicable.
07. Other qualifications :-
 i. applicants shall be of an excellent character.
 ii. shall have completed a satisfactory service of 
five years immediately preceding the (05) date 
of calling applications,which is 19.10.2020.
 iii. Shall have been confirmed in service.
 iV . Shall have satisfied each and every way all 
the qualifications and conditions required for 
recruitment to the post as at the closing date of 
applications, which is 19.10.2020.
08. 8.1 Written examination :-
8.1.1 this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
8.1.2 syllabus :-
No. Subjects Maximum 
marks
Pass 
marks Duration
01
Knowledge 
related to the 
subject of 
architecture
100 40 03
02 General 
question paper 100 40 02
Subject No. 01 - knowledge related to the subject of 
Architecture
this question paper shall be designed in the following 
manner.
duration - three hours
two compulsory questions shall be answered from Part i 
and ii (20 marks each) four questions shall be answered out 
of the 6 questions in the other three parts. (15 marks each)
Pass mark is 40%
Part I - Practical role of an architect in public service
1. difference of the practice of architecture 
between public and private sector.
2. scope, advantages and disadvantages of the 
role of architect.
3. Responsibilities towards general public.
4. Responsibilities towards the organization.
Part II-
1. basic studies and investigations
2. conceptual design and approach to basic 
estimates
3. Planning and formulating procedures and 
obtaining necessary approvals and clarifications
4. the set of plans to be prepared for obtaining 
approval from relevant local government 
institutions
5. Comprehensive field plans and specifications 
on architecture
6. Preparation of detailed data with the 
coordination of other consultants (structural 
and service plans)
Part III - tasks of the organization and operational 
medium 
1. Vision and mission of the organization
2. Role and task of the organization
3. organization structure
4. duties, responsibilities and interrelationship of 
each division in the performance of the tasks of 
the organization
5. Links with other public institutions
Part Iv - contribution of architects to the project within 
the preconstruction period of the project
1. bid documents and estimate of institutions
2. Procurement guidelines
3. Pre tender meetings and tender activities
4. t echnical evaluation and the types of tender boards
5. agreements and awarding contracts
Part v  - contribution of the architects during the 
implementation process and post contract period of the 
project
1. Progress review meetings at the site

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1400
2. Quality control procedures
3. maintaining the coordination with construction groups
4. Estimating the built environment and activities on post analysis
5. maintenance registers
Subject No. 02 — General question paper
this question paper is limited to 02 hours. it consists of two parts.
Part I : This question paper consists of questions related to scientific matters in wide range covering all subjects.
Part II : this question paper consists of questions related to other general subjects such as economics, politics, culture 
and art.
Structure of the question paper :
• Above question papers may consist of multiple choice or semi structured questions or combination of both.
• All questions shall be answered.
8.1.3  Issuance of results :-
 a  result sheet consisting of the names of applicants who have secured total marks above the limit prescribed as per 
the notice by the Public service commission prepared on the order of merit of the candidates who have become 
qualified after appearing for the written test shall be submitted to Secretary, Public Service Commission. Results 
shall be personally informed to all the applicants who appear for the examination or published in the web site 
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
8.2  Interview :
8.2.1 structured interview :
Sections to which marks shall be allocated after examining Maximum
marks
Total
marks
1.  Additional educational qualifications
10
10
20
I. Post Graduate degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants 
commission
II. Full professional qualification
2. Additional professional qualifications :
I. Publications submitted in relation to the present field of service (It shall be confirmed whether 
the isbN numbers have been obtained and the media in which such publications appeared 
shall be mentioned - 01 mark per each publication)
II. Posts held at local/ foreign institutions in relation to the present field of service (Relevant 
service certificates should be submitted - 01 mark for each shall be allocated)
III. Awards/ commendation received within the present field of service (Should be proved by 
form general 230 or acceptable certificates - 01 mark for each shall be allocated)
Iv. Innovations made in relation to the field of service (The certificate issued by the institution 
which recognized such innovation shall be submitted - 01 mark for each)
05
05
05
05
20

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1401
2. Quality control procedures
3. maintaining the coordination with construction groups
4. Estimating the built environment and activities on post analysis
5. maintenance registers
Subject No. 02 — General question paper
this question paper is limited to 02 hours. it consists of two parts.
Part I : This question paper consists of questions related to scientific matters in wide range covering all subjects.
Part II : this question paper consists of questions related to other general subjects such as economics, politics, culture 
and art.
Structure of the question paper :
• Above question papers may consist of multiple choice or semi structured questions or combination of both.
• All questions shall be answered.
8.1.3  Issuance of results :-
 a  result sheet consisting of the names of applicants who have secured total marks above the limit prescribed as per 
the notice by the Public service commission prepared on the order of merit of the candidates who have become 
qualified after appearing for the written test shall be submitted to Secretary, Public Service Commission. Results 
shall be personally informed to all the applicants who appear for the examination or published in the web site 
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
8.2  Interview :
8.2.1 structured interview :
Sections to which marks shall be allocated after examining Maximum
marks
Total
marks
1.  Additional educational qualifications
10
10
20
I. Post Graduate degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants 
commission
II. Full professional qualification
2. Additional professional qualifications :
I. Publications submitted in relation to the present field of service (It shall be confirmed whether 
the isbN numbers have been obtained and the media in which such publications appeared 
shall be mentioned - 01 mark per each publication)
II. Posts held at local/ foreign institutions in relation to the present field of service (Relevant 
service certificates should be submitted - 01 mark for each shall be allocated)
III. Awards/ commendation received within the present field of service (Should be proved by 
form general 230 or acceptable certificates - 01 mark for each shall be allocated)
Iv. Innovations made in relation to the field of service (The certificate issued by the institution 
which recognized such innovation shall be submitted - 01 mark for each)
05
05
05
05
20
Sections to which marks shall be allocated after examining Maximum
marks
Total
marks
3. Professional experience :
I. activities of architects regarding single building
– Houses
Public offices
(Houses and public offices of the government with the extent of 300Sq to 500Sq)
II. architectural works related to semi storied
– Housing schemes  
– mixed development buildings  
(2 to 5 floors)  
15
10
55
III. architectural works related to elevated buildings
- Housing schemes
- mixed development buildings
(storied building projects over 6 stories)
10
Iv
v
settlements and main project plans 
- Housing schemes 
- master Plan
- mixed development buildings
other
- additional designs (E.g. Exhibition grounds)
- contribution for social services 
- Housing clinic
- other educational courses related to the profession (E.g. Green buildings)
(Acceptable certificates should be submitted to prove the above facts)
10
4.  merit displayed at the interview 05
Total marks 100
Allocation of marks and verification of qualifications shall be made by a board of interview appointed by the Public 
service commission.
9. Conditions of the examination :-
 i.  the examination will be held in sinhala, tamil or English media. candidates shall sit for the examination in 
a language of their preference. a candidate must sit for all the papers of the examination in one and the same 
language. a candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the 
application. Every candidate shall sit for the 02 question papers.
 ii. Examination fee is Rs. 1000/-. Examination fee can be paid in cash to any Post Office/ Sub post office to be 
credited to the revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained 
in the name of the applicant should be affixed by one edge of the receipt in the relevant cage so as not to be 
detached. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt. money orders or stamps shall not be accepted for 
examination fee.
 iii. Under no circumstances the examination fee will be refunded.
 iV . the date of examination shall be informed in due course.
 V.  applications that are not completed in every aspect shall be rejected without notice.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1402
Note : candidates shall not be permitted to enter the 
examination hall without the admission card. 
only the admission cards on which the signature 
has been attested shall be submitted to the 
supervisor of the examination on the first day of 
the examination.
 admission cards shall be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations to the 
applicants those who have paid the prescribed 
examination fee on or before the closing date 
of applications and correctly perfected the 
application along with the receipt. the issuance 
of an admission card to a candidate does not 
mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite  
qualifications to sit for the examination.
 Vi. application should be prepared on paper of 
size 22-29 cm (a-4) and the sections 1.0 to 3.2 
should appear on the first page, sections from 
3.3 to 6.0 should appear on the second page and 
the rest should appear on the other page. the 
relevant particulars shall be furnished clearly by 
the candidates in his/her hand writing. applications 
that do not comply with the specimen and 
that are not completed in every aspect shall be 
rejected without notice. it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the application with candidate.
 Vii.  Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. 
a notice shall be published in the newspapers 
and website of the department as soon as 
admission cards are issued to applicants. if the 
admission card is not received even after  2 or 
3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall 
be taken to notify the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
it would be advisable to keep the following in 
hand at the time of calling the department of 
Examinations: i.e. a photocopy of the application 
form, receipt of registration, kept at your 
possession, in case of applicants outside colombo, 
letter of request furnishing a fax number to which 
the admission cards should be sent.
 Viii. this examination shall be held in december, 
2020 in colombo and the commissioner General 
of Examinations shall reserve the power to 
postpone or cancel the examination on the approval 
of the Public service commission.
 iX. candidates are subjected to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on conducting the examination. 
they are liable to be subjected to a punishment  
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for breach of these rules.
 X. Identity of Candidates: a  candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination  
hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. for this 
purpose, only one of the following documents shall 
be accepted.
 i. National identity card ;
 ii. a valid passport ;
 iii. a valid sri Lankan driving license.
N.B. (a)  No document or a copy of the same should be 
attached to the application.
 (b) the applications of the candidates who are 
unable to submit relevant documents at the 
interview shall not be considered.
Officers who are serving in Public Service/ Provincial 
Public service shall forward their applications through their 
Heads of the department/ institution. the signature of every 
candidate shall have been attested by the respective Head of 
the institution.
10. in the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
on the order of the Public service commission,
 J. J. 
rathnasiri.
 secretary,
 ministry of Public services, 
 Provincial councils and Local Government.
ministry of Public services, 
Provincial councils and Local Government, 
independence square,
colombo 07,
03rd september, 2020.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1403
(For office use only)
sPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN
limited competitive examination for recruitment to grade iii of sri lanKa architects’ service (2020)
medium- Language medium of examination :
sinhala - 2    tamil - 3   English - 4                   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
•  The application should be filled in the same language in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
1.0  Personal information :
 1.1 Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––.
  (e.g.– HERatH mUdiyaNsELaGE samaN KUmaRa  GUNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (e.g.– GUNa WaRdHaNa,H.m.s.K)
 1.3 Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
 1.4 National identity card No. :–
2.0 2.1 Permanent address in English block capitals: (admission cards will be posted to this address) :––––––––––––.
 2.2 Permanent address (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––.
 2.3 t elephone No. : 
                 mobile                                    fixed 
3.0 3.1  sex:-  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  male - 0  female -1
 3.2 Ethnic group :           (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  sinhala -1     tamil - 2       indian tamil - 3         muslim - 4      other - 5
 3.3 date of birth : y ear :                           month :                       date :
 3.4 age as at the closing date of applications :  years :          months :               days :
 3.5 marital status:-               (indicate the relevant  number in the cage) 
   married - 1                   single - 2
 3.7 E-mail address :–––––––––––.
4.0 your service/grade [class, Grade or segment] out of the departmental Grades mentioned in Para 7 of the Gazette 
Notification shall be indicated (if any). If you have served in more than one eligible service/grade, those shall be 
indicated with dates
 4.1 Post held at present :–––––––––––. 
 4.2 service to which the post belongs (Public service/ Provincial Public service) :–––––––––––. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1404
 4.3 Grade :–––––––––––. 
 4.4 class/ segment :–––––––––––. 
 4.5 date of appointment to the post :––––––––. 
 4.6 Date of confirmation in the post :–––––––––––.
 4.7 Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––.
5.0  total period of permanent and continuous service 
as at the closing date of applications in the services/
grades mentioned in Para (7) of the Gazette N o t i fi c a t i o n :                        
–––––––––––––.
6.0 Affix the receipt properly:-
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
Office to which the payment has been made :––––––––.
 date :–––––––––––.
7. 0 Certification of the applicant :
I declare that during the five years immediately preceding 
the closing date of applications (19.10.2020), i have earned 
all increments (Except that the increment for which the 
passing of service or departme ntal examinations has been 
prescribed as a condition) and that i have not been subjected 
to any form of disciplinary punishment (Except warning) 
for any offence. i declare that i am eligible to sit for the 
Limited Competitive Examination and I have affixed the 
receipt No.:..............  dated ................ being payment of the 
examination. i also agree to be bound by the rules governing 
examinations and any decision that may be taken to cancel 
my candidature prior to or during or after the examination 
if it is found that i am ineligible according to the conditions 
of this examination. further, i shall be liable to be dismissed 
from service without any compensation, if it is found that any 
particular indicted in the application is found to be false or 
incorrect even after the appointment and i agree to be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of examinations on conducting the examination and 
issuing the results.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
8.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to 
the personal file) :-
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ............................., 
who is submitting this application, has earned all salary 
increments during the period of 5 years immediately 
preceding ....................... (Except that the increment for 
which the passing of service or departmental examinations
has been prescribed as a condition), has not been subjected 
to any disciplinary punishment (Except warnings), the 
particulars furnished in the application have been found 
correct according to available records, he/she is eligible 
to sit for this examination as per regulations stipulated in 
this Gazette Notification, he/she has paid the prescribed 
examination fee and has affixed the receipt and that he/she 
can be released from the post held at present, if he/ she is 
selected for this post.
date :–––––––––––. –––––––––––––––––,
 (signature of the Head of department/ 
 Authorized Officer)
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
09–454
––––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Class 1 of Grade III of Sri Lanka Information 
& Communication Technology 
Service – 2018 (2020)
aPPLicatioNs are called on the order of the Public service 
commission for the open competitive Examination for 
selection of qualified persons to 34 posts which have fallen 
vacant in class 1- Grade iii of sri Lanka information and 
communication technology service. Relevant application 
is published on the website of department of Examinations, 
sri Lanka, www.doenets.lk and the applications can only be 
submitted online. once the application is submitted online, 
it should be downloaded and the printed copy of the same 
should be sent by registered post to reach the commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations (institutional and 
foreign Examination) branch, department of Examinations, 
P.o. box No 1503, colombo, on or before the closing date of 
applications. The words “Open Competitive Examination 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1405
for Recruitment to Grade III of Class 1 of Sri Lanka 
Information and Communication Technology Service  
2018(2020)” should be clearly indicated on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
closing date of applications is 26.10.2020.the 
examination will be held in colombo on January 2021.
Note: No complaint that a printed copy of the 
application has been lost or delayed in post 
shall be considered. the candidate shall bear 
the losses which may occur due to their delay in 
sending applications until the closing date.
1. method of recruitment:
 (i) Recruitments shall be made on the results of 
a written examination and general interview . 
appointment shall be made strictly on the 
order of the marks secured by the candidates in 
order to fill the number of vacancies allocated 
for the competitive examination.  the number 
of appointments and the effective date of 
appointment shall be determined on the order of 
the Public service commission. 
 (ii) 3% of the existing vacancies shall be allocated 
for differently able persons. the differently 
able persons who secure highest marks out of 
those who become qualified at the examination 
shall be selected on the order of the marks to 
award appointments. the candidates who are 
qualified for appointment will be directed to a 
medical board consists of consultant medical 
practitioners and it should be confirmed by a 
medical report of consultants that the disability 
of the candidate does not hinder him/her to 
perform duties of the post.
2. Conditions for employment in the service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
are subjected to the policy decisions taken by 
the Government with regard to the pension 
scheme in future. further, you should make the 
contributions to the Widows’ and orphans’/ 
Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension. you shall make 
your contributions as ordered by the government 
from time to time.  
 (ii) Officers who are appointed to this post shall be 
subjected to a probation period of three (03) years 
and the first Efficiency Bar examination shall be 
passed within the said three (03) years.
 (iii) The prescribed official language proficiency shall 
be obtained within 05 years of the service as per 
the provisions in Public administration circular 
No 01/2014 and the consequent circulars. 
 (iv) this appointment shall be subjected to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission, the terms and conditions set out 
in the minute, of sri Lanka information and 
communication technology service Published 
in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka No. 1894/26 
dated 26.12.2014, amendment already made and 
will be made thereto in due course to the said 
service minute, provisions of the Establishment 
code and financial Regulations. 
 (v) the language medium in which you become 
eligible to be appointed will be the language you 
mention in the application.
3. Salary Scale: in terms of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 (sL-1-2016) dated 25.02.2016, 
monthly salary scale entitled to this post is Rs.47,615-
10x1335-8x1630-17x2170= 110,895/=. 
4. Educational Qualifications :
 (1) shall have obtained a degree in computer 
science/ information technology/ computer 
Engineering or a degree related to computer 
technology from a University recognized 
by the University Grants commission or a 
degree awarding institution recognized by the 
University Grants commission.
  or
 (2) (i)  shall have obtained a degree from a 
University recognized by the University 
Grants commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the University 
Grants commission ( at least 1/3 of the 
degree should be comprised of computer 
science/ information technology)  
   and
  (ii) shall have obtained a Post Graduate diploma 
in computer science/ information 
technology from a University recognized 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1406
by the University Grants commission or a degree awarding institution recognized by the University 
Grants commission  
  
5. Age limit :  minimum limit – 21 years
 maximum limit –35 years 
(Candidates shall be treated as having satisfied the qualifications relating to the age if his/ her date of birth falls on or 
before 26.10.1999 or on or after 26.10.1985
 
Note : Officers serving in permanent posts in the Public Service / Provincial Public Service will be given the opportunity 
to appear for this examination irrespective of age only during this examination.
6. Physical fitness: Every applicant shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Sri Lanka and to 
perform the duties of the post.
7.   Other qualifications :
 (i)   applicants should be citizens of sri Lanka.
 (ii)  applicants should be of an excellent character.  
 (iii)  All relevant qualifications required for recruitment to the post shall be satisfied each and every way on or before 
the closing date indicated in the notification for calling applications.
8. method of Recruitment :
8.1 Written examination:
 8.1.1 this examination shall be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
Subjects Duration maximum 
marks 
Cut off 
marks 
General intelligence 1 Hour 100      40 
Knowledge on information and communication technology 2 Hours 100               40 
aptitude on information and communication technology 
management 2 Hours 100               40
Note : this question paper has been designed to measure competency and skills of the candidate for the duties of the 
service. Even though this is a competitive examination, a candidate is required to obtain at least 40% of marks 
allocated for each subject whilst obtaining at least 50% of the total marks. marks will be deducted in every 
answer sheet for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. appointments shall be made strictly on the order 
of the marks obtained by the candidates in order to fill the number of vacancies allocated for the competitive 
examination.   
 8.1.2 Syllabus:   
Name of the 
Question Paper
Syllabus
1. General 
intelligence:
it is expected to assess the level of intelligence of the candidate in analytical skills, 
logical comprehension, interpretative ability, ability in application to other situations 
and arriving at conclusions, in response to problems presented in relation to numerical, 
lingual and figurative structure and inter- relations. (This question paper shall consist 
of 50 questions including multiple choice questions and questions for short answers. 
all questions should be answered.)

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1407
Name of the 
Question Paper
Syllabus
2. ict 
comprehensions 
to test the candidate’s capacity for conceptualization of ict management, ict problem 
solving ability, it Project management capacity and analysis, design and development 
of software system from a given set of topics/themes. (this question paper consists 
of questions for short answers as well as structured type questions.  all the questions 
should be answered.)
3. aptitude for ict 
management 
this paper is designed to assess the candidate’s aptitude for sound ict  management 
with latest trends in ict using the knowledge in software development installation and 
maintenance. (this question paper consists of questions for short answers as well as 
structured type questions. all the questions should be answered.)
8.2  Interview
8.2.1  General Interview: 
 This interview will be held to verify whether the applicant has satisfied the   qualifications mentioned in 
the notification published in line with the Service Minute. Marks shall not be allocated
9. Conditions of the examination :
 i. the examination will be held in sinhala, tamil or English medium. candidates shall sit for the examination 
in a language of their preference. candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same 
language. candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the 
application. all candidates must appear for all three question papers. 
 II. Online Examination Application should only be filled in English. Once the Department of Examination 
receives both the soft copy of the application submitted online and the printed copy of the application sent 
via registered post, the soft copy and the printed copy will be verified and the candidates will be notified via 
sms to the mobile phone number used to access the system or via email whether the application was accepted/ 
not accepted by the department. before completing the online application you should download the common 
instructions sheet, and the instruction should be strictly followed. any alteration done after taking the print out 
of the application will not be considered as a valid modification. Incomplete applications are rejected without 
any notice.
 iii. Examination fee is Rs. 1200/-. Payments should be made only via following methods of payments provided by 
the online system.
 (i) any bank credit cards
 (ii) any bank debit cards
 (iii) bank of ceylon online banking method
 (iv) bank of ceylon teller slip Payment
 (v) Postal Department Payment at any Post Office.
Note:- instruction on making payment through above methods are published under technical instructions relevant 
to the examination on the web site. 
 
 IV . Receipt of payment will be notified via an SMS or email. The total of the examination fees should be paid 
and the applications with payment of lesser or higher amounts shall be rejected. department of Examination 
shall not be responsible for any error occurs during the payment of examination fees via above methods of 
payments.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1408
 V . Under no circumstances the examination fee 
will be refunded.
 Vi. the signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card should also 
be attested.  an applicant who submits the 
application through an institution should get 
his/her signature attested by the Head of the 
Institution or any officer authorized by him 
other applicants should get their signature 
attested by a School Principal/ Retired Officer, 
Grama Niladhari of the division, Justice of 
Peace, commissioner of oaths, attorney at 
Law, Notary Public, a commissioned officer in 
three armed forces, a staff officer in the public 
or provincial public service or higher or a chief 
incumbent of a buddhist temple or clergy of 
any other religion who holds a considerable 
position.
Note:- Entrance to the examination hall shall 
not be permitted without an admission 
card. Every applicant should furnish the 
admission card in which his/ her signature 
has been attested to the supervisor of the 
examination on the first day on which he/ 
she sit for the examination. issuance of 
an admission card to an applicant does 
not necessarily mean that he/she has 
fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the 
examination and to hold the post.
 Vii. commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue admissions to applicants who have 
paid relevant fees and submitted perfected 
applications online, on the assumption that 
only those who have satisfied qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette have applied. a 
notification   will be published in newspapers 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to the 
candidates. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, 
steps should be taken to notify the department 
of Examinations organizations (institutional 
and foreign Examinations) branch and in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. When 
such inquiry is made, the candidate should 
clearly mention the name of the examination, 
full name of the applicant, National identity 
card and address. in case of applicants outside 
colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax 
number to which the admission card should be 
sent. it would be advisable to keep the following 
in hand at the time of calling the department 
of Examinations: i.e. certified photocopies of 
the application form and the receipt obtained 
after paying the examination fee kept at your 
possession, receipt of registration of the 
printed copy of the application.
 Viii. commissioner General of Examination shall 
reserve the right to postpone or to cancel the 
examination on the approval of the Public 
service commission. 
 iX. all candidates are bound to comply with 
the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examination with 
regard to the conducting and issuing results of 
this examination. further, candidates will be 
subjected to the punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for 
violation of those rules and regulations.
 X. a  candidate shall be required to prove 
his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor.  for this 
purpose, any of the following documents shall 
be accepted:-
 (a) National identity card,
 (b) a  valid Passport,
 (c) a  valid driving license in sri Lanka. 
  candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering face and ears enabling to 
verify the identity. those who refuse to verify 
their identity as such shall not be permitted to 
enter the examination hall. further, candidates 
should remain with their face and ears 
uncovered until they leave the examination 
hall enabling the examination supervisors to 
confirm their identity. 
 xI. Issuance of results: 
  Result sheet prepared on the order of the 
merit including the names of the candidates 
equal to the number of vacancies expected 
to be filled by selecting who have secured 
marks not less than 40% for each subject at 
the written examination and who have secured 
50% or more out of the aggregate marks of the 
examination shall be submitted to secretary 
to the ministry of Public services, Provincial 
councils and Local Government with approval 
of the Public services commission.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1409
  the results of all the applicants who have 
sat for the examination shall be informed 
personally or published in the website www.
results.exams.gov.lk by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
 Xiii. in the event of any inconsistency between 
the sinhala, tamil and English texts of this 
notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
on the order of the Public service commission.
  J.J. 
rathnasiri,
  secretary,
  ministry of Public services, Provincial 
  councils and Local Government
14th september, 2020.
For Special Attention
Since the applications are called for this Examination 
on "Online" basis, please be informed that the 
applications should be submitted only after 25.09.2020.
09-773
–––––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information 
and Communication Technology 
Service – 2018 (2020)
aPPLicatioNs are called on the order of the Public service 
commission for the Limited competitive Examination for 
selection of qualified persons to 15 posts which have fallen 
vacant in class 1- Grade iii of sri Lanka information and 
communication technology service. Relevant application 
is published on the website of department of Examinations, 
sri Lanka, www.doenets.lk and the applications can only be 
submitted online. once the application is submitted online, 
it should be downloaded and the printed copy of the same 
should be sent by registered post to reach the commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations (institutional and 
foreign Examination) branch, department of Examinations, 
P.o. box No. 1503, colombo, on or before the closing 
date of applications. the words “Limited Competitive 
Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Class 1 of 
Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology 
Service” should be clearly indicated on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
closing date of applications is 26.10.2020 the examination 
will be held in colombo on January 2021.
Note: No complaint that a printed copy of the 
application has been lost or delayed in post 
shall be considered. the candidate shall bear 
the losses which may occur due to their delay in 
sending applications until the closing date. 
1. method of Recruitment to Service : Recruitment 
shall be made on the results of a written examination and 
a general interview. appointment shall be made strictly on 
the order of the marks secured by the candidates in order to 
fill the number of vacancies allocated for the competitive 
examination. the number of appointments and the effective 
date of appointment shall be determined on the order of the 
Public service commission.
2. Conditions of engaging in Service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contributions shall be made to Widows’ and 
orphans’/ Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension 
scheme.
 (ii) Officers who are appointed to this post shall 
be subjected to an acting period of one year 
and should pass the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination within three (03) years from the 
date of appointment.
 (iii) The prescribed official language proficiency 
shall be obtained within 05 years of the 
service as per the provisions in Public 
administration circular No. 01/2014 and the 
consequent circulars.
 (iv) this appointment shall be subjected to 
Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission and terms and conditions set 
out in the minute of sri Lanka information 
and communication technology service 
Published in the Gazette extraordinary 
of the democratic socialist Republic of 
sri Lanka No. 1894/26 dated 26.12.2014, 
any amendments to be made to the minute 
hereinafter, financial Regulations in the 
Establishment code and Procedural Rules of 
Public service commission. 
 (v)  the language medium in which you become 
eligible to be appointed will be the language 
you mention in the application.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1410
3. Salary Scale.– in terms of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 (sL-1-2016) dated 25.02.2016, monthly 
salary scale entitled to this post is Rs. 47,615-10x1335-
8x1630-17x2170= Rs. 110,895/=. 
4. Educational Qualifications and Experience :
4.1 Experience :
(1) Shall be an officer in Grade I, Class 2 and 
have not been subjected to a disciplinary 
punishment in line with the provisions in 
Public service circular No. 01/2020. 
 or
(2) (a)  Shall be a permanent officer in Grade 
ii, class 2 who have completed an 
active and satisfactory period of 
immediately preceding five (05) 
years and have not been subjected 
to a disciplinary punishment in line 
with the provisions in Public service 
circular No. 01/2020. 
  and
 (b) Shall have satisfied the educational 
qualifications mentioned in 4.2
  and 
 (c) Shall have passed the Efficiency Bar 
Examination relevant to that Grade. 
4.2 Educational qualifications :
(1) shall have obtained a degree in computer 
science/ information technology/ 
computer Engineering or a degree 
related to computer technology from a 
University recognized by the University 
Grants commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the University 
Grants commission. 
 or
(2) (i) shall have obtained a degree from a 
University recognized by the University 
Grants commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the University 
Grants commission. ( at lease 1/3 of 
the degree course should be comprised 
of computer science/ information 
technology)
 and 
(ii) shall have obtained a Post Graduate 
diploma in computer science/ 
information technology from a 
University recognized by the University 
Grants commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the University 
Grants commission.
N.B. : These educational qualifications are not 
applicable to the officers mentioned in 
4.1.1.
5. Age Limit : Not applicable 
6. Physical fitness : Every applicant shall be physically 
and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island to perform 
duties of the post
7. Other Qualifications:
 (i) applicants shall be citizens of sri Lanka.
 (ii) applicants shall be of an excellent character. 
 (iii) All the qualifications required for recruitment to 
the post shall have been satisfied in all aspects as 
at the closing date of applications mentioned in 
the Gazette notification.  
8. method of Recruitment and Interview :
8.1. Written Examination
8.1.1 this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations 
Subjects Duration Total 
marks
Pass 
marks
1. General 
intelligence
1 Hour 100 40
2. aptitude test for 
information and 
communication 
technology 
management 
2 Hours 100 40
Note:  this question paper has been designed to measure 
competency and skills of the candidate for 
the duties of the service. Even though this is a 
competitive examination, a candidate is required 
to obtain at least 40% of marks allocated for each 
subject whilst obtaining at least 50% of the total 
marks. marks will be deducted in every answer 
sheet for illegible handwriting and spelling 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1411
mistakes. appointments shall strictly be made on the order of the marks obtained by the candidates in order to 
fill the number of vacancies allocated for the competitive examination. 
8.1.2 Syllabus :
Name of the 
Question Paper
Syllabus
1. General 
intelligence:
it is expected to assess the level of intelligence of the candidate in analytical skills, 
logical comprehension, interpretative ability, ability in application to other situations 
and arriving at conclusions, in response to problems presented in relation to numerical, 
lingual and figurative structure and inter- relations.(This question paper is comprised 
of 50 multiple choice questions and questions for short answers. all questions should 
be answered)
2. aptitude for ict 
management 
it is expected to assess the ability for problem solving and the critical thinking capacity, 
knowledge in information communication technology of candidate in relation to 
practice in public service relevant to Establishments code, Procedural Rules of 
the Public service commission and financial Regulations through a case/ cases 
constructed connecting one or several issues in relation to various environments of 
Public service in information and communication technology (this question paper 
is comprised of short questions and structural questions. all the questions should be 
answered)
8.2 Interview :
8.2.1 General Interview: 
 This interview will be held to verify whether the applicant has satisfied the qualifications mentioned in the 
notification published in line with the Service Minute. Marks shall not be allocated.
9. Conditions of the Examination :
 i. the examination will be held in sinhala, tamil or English medium. candidates shall sit for the examination 
in a language of their preference. a candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same 
language. a candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in 
the application. all candidates must appear for both question papers. 
 ii. Online Examination Application should only be filled in English. Once the Department of Examination 
receives both the soft copy of the application submitted online and the printed copy of the application send 
via registered post, the soft copy and the printed copy will be verified and the candidates will be notified via 
sms to the mobile phone number used to access the system or via email whether the application was accepted/ 
not accepted by the department. before completing the online application you should download the common 
instructions sheet, and the instruction should be strictly followed. any alteration done after taking the print out 
of the application will not be considered as a valid modification. Incomplete applications are rejected without 
any notice.
 iii. Examination fee is Rs. 1200/-. Payments should be made only via following methods of payments provided 
by the online system :
 i. any bank credit cards,
 ii. any bank debit cards,
 iii. bank of ceylon online banking method,

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1412
 iV . bank of ceylon teller slip Payment,
 V . Postal department Payment at any Post 
Office.
Note:- instruction on making payment through 
above methods are published under 
technical instructions relevant to the 
examination on the web site. 
 IV . Receipt of payment will be notified via an 
sms or email. the total of the examination 
fees should be paid and the applications with 
payment of lesser or higher amounts shall be 
rejected. department of Examination shall 
not be responsible for any error occurs during 
the payment of examination fees via above 
methods of payments.
 V . Under no circumstances the examination fee 
will be refunded.
 Vi. signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and the admission card should be 
certified by the Head of the Institution or any 
other officer designated by him/her.
Note:- Entrance to the examination hall shall 
not be permitted without an admission 
card. Every applicant should furnish 
the admission card in which his/ her 
signature has been attested to the 
supervisor of the examination on the 
first day on which he/ she sit for the 
examination. issuance of an admission 
card to an applicant does not necessarily 
mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit for the examination 
and to hold the post.
 Vii. commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue admissions to applicants who have 
paid relevant fees and submitted perfected 
applications online, on the assumption that 
only those who have satisfied qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette have applied. a 
notification   will be published in newspapers 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to the 
candidates. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, 
steps should be taken to notify the department 
of Examinations organizations (institutional 
and foreign Examinations) branch and in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. When 
such inquiry is made, the candidate should 
clearly mention the name of the examination, 
full name of the applicant, National identity 
card and address. in case of applicants 
outside colombo, letter of request furnishing 
a fax number to which the admission card 
should be sent. it would be advisable to 
keep the following in hand at the time of 
calling the department of Examinations: 
i.e. certified photocopies of the application 
form and the receipt obtained after paying 
he examination fee kept at your possession, 
receipt of registration of the printed copy of 
the application.
 Viii. commissioner General of Examination shall 
reserve the right to postpone or to cancel the 
examination on the approval of the Public 
service commission. 
 iX. all candidates are bound to comply with 
the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examination with 
regard to the conducting and issuing results of 
this examination. further, candidates will be 
subjected to the punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for 
violation of those rules and regulations.
 x. Identity of the Candidate- candidates will 
be required to prove their identity at the 
examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they offer.  for 
this purpose, one of the following documents 
should be submitted to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card,
 (ii) a  valid Passport,
 (iii) a  valid driving Licence in sri Lanka.
  candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering face and ears enabling to 
verify the identity. those who refuse to verify 
their identity as such shall not be permitted to 
enter the examination hall. further, candidates 
should remain with their face and ears 
uncovered until they leave the examination 
hall enabling the examination supervisors to 
confirm their identity. 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2020
1413
 xI. Issuance of Results –
  Result sheet prepared on the order of the merit 
including the names of the candidates equal 
to the number of vacancies expected to be 
filled by selecting who have secured marks 
not less than 40% for each subject at the 
written examination and who have secured 
50% or more out of the aggregate marks of the 
examination shall be submitted to secretary 
to the ministry of Public services, Provincial 
councils and Local Government with 
approval of the Public services commission.
  commissioner General of Examinations shall 
take actions to inform the results individually 
to the candidates or to publish on the web site 
www.results.exams.gov.lk 
10.0 in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
  
on the order of the Public service commission 
  J.J. 
rathnasiri,
  secretary,
  ministry of Public services, Provincial 
  council and Local Government.
14th september, 2020.
For Special Attention
Since the applications are called for this Examination 
on "Online" basis, please be informed that the 
applications should be submitted only after 25.09.2020.
09-774
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.