

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 14'05'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.05.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl  1861$34  - 2014 uehs ui 08 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2014'05'08
No. 1861/34  - THURSDAY ,  MAY  08,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
ANIMAL   DISEASES  ACT,  No. 59  OF  1992
Order  on the relaxation of certain restrictions imposed by order made under Section 5 (1) of the Animal Diseases Act,
No. 59 of 1992 and published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1850/28
WHEREAS,  No fresh case of Foot and Mouth Disease has not been reported in the Government Veterinary Surgeons
Division of Madawachchiya, Kebithigollawa, Mihinthale and Vilachchiya and Galkiriyagama of Anuradhapura District of the
North Central Province, a District decalred as Foot and Mouth Disease infected area under Section  5(1) of the Animal
Disease Act, No. 59 of 1992.
1. With effect from the date on which this order is published in the Gazette -
(1) the restrictions imposed by the order made under Section 5(1) of the Animal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992
and published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1850/28 of  18.02.2014 shall not apply to the Government
Veterinary Surgeons Division of Madawachchiya, Kebithigollawa, Mihinthale and Vilachchiya and of
Anuradhapura District of the North Central Province,
(2) the slaughtering of animals and selling, exposing for sale, offering for sale, store, supply or distribution
and transportation of meat and carcass within the Government Veterinary Surgeon Divisons of
Madawachchiya, Kebithigollawa, Mihinthale and Vilachchiya and of Anuradhapura District of the North
Central Province shall strictly be in a accordance with the conditions specified in the Schedule to the
Order,
(3) No person shall remove from the Government Veterinary Surgeons Divisions of Madawachchiya,
Kebithigollawa, Mihinthale and Vilachchiya and of Anuradhapura District of the North Central Province,
any animal, meat or carcass, animal waste (including dung) and litter material without a permit issued by a
Authorized Veterinary Surgeon.
 This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 14'05'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.05.2014
2A
2. In order prevent spread from and control within the said Government Veterinary Surgeon Divisions of the Foot
and Mouth Disease, I do–
(1) by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 38 of the said Animal Diseases Act,
authorized the following officers to be an Authorized Officer for the purposes and within the meaning of
Section 3(2) of that Act.
- the Director (Animal Health)  ;
- the Deputy Director (Animal Health) ;
- the Assistant Director (V eterinary Regulatory Affairs and Animal Welfare) ;
- the Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health (North Central Province) ;
- the District Veterinary Surgeon  Anuradhapura District ;
- the Government Veterinary Surgeons in charge of Government Veterinary Surgeon Divisions of
Madawachchiya, Kebithigollawa, Mihinthale and Vilachchiya and Galkiriyagama of Anuradhapura
District of the North Central Province ;
- The Livestock Development Officers or Livestock Development Instructors attached to the office of
the respective Government Veterinary Surgeons ; and
- Every Police Officer of the Sri Lanka Police
(2) by virtue and the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 3(2) of that Act, direct every Authorized
Officer under paragraph 1 above to take all measures and step to ensure strictly compliance with and giving
effect to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this order and to exercise the powers of an authorized officer
under Section 13 of the Animal Diseases Act for that purpose.
3. In this order
(a) "animal" means a neat cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat and pig
(b) "Authorized Veterinary Surgeon" means
- the Director (Animal Health)  ;
- the Deputy Director (Animal Health) ;
- the Assistant Director (V eterinary Regulatory Affairs and Animal Welfare) ;
- the Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health (North Central Province) ;
- the District Veterinary Surgeon of Anuradhapura District ;
- the Government Veterinary Sugeons in charge of Government Veterinary Surgeons Divisions of
Madawachchiya, Kebithigollawa, Mihinthale and Vilachchiya and of Anuradhapura District of the
North Central Province.
D
R. W. K. DE SILV A,
Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
SCHEDULE
CONDITIONS SUBJECT TO WHICH THE SLAUGHTER OF ANIMALS AND THE SALE, EXPOSURE FOR SALE, OFFER FOR SALE, STORAGE, SUPPLY,
DISTRIBUTION AN TRANSPORTA TION OF MEAT AND CARCASS
1. Slaughter of Animal should be carried out strictly in accordance with the provisions of the Animals Act, No. 29 of
1958, the Butchers Ordinance, the Cruelty to Animals Ordinance and the Nuisances Ordinance.
2. Slaughter of Animal Should be carried out only at -
(a) Public Slaughter Houses approved under Section 26 of the Butchers Ordinance by the Minister or any
Officer authorized under the Minister of Local Government (Delegation of Powers) Act, No. 31 of 1970 ; or

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 14'05'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.05.2014
3A
(b) A Place approved by the Proper Authority under Section 14(a) of the Butchers Ordinance ;
(c) A Private Slaughter House licensed by the relevant Local Authority.
3. The following documents should have been obtained in respect of every premises under paragraph 2.
(a) an Environmental Protection License issued under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 or any
other Statute of a Provincial Council relating to Environmental Protection ;
(b) A Certificate of Registration under the Factories Ordinance.
4. Only the following person can slaughter animal :-
(a) the Holder of an Annual Butchers License issued under Section 4 of the Butchers Ordinance in accordance
with the provisions of Sections 5, 6 and 7 of that Ordinance ;
(b) the Holder of an  temporary Butchers License issued under Section 12 of the Butchers Ordinance ; or
(c) The holder of a Cattle Slaughter Permit under Section 18(1) of the Butchers Ordinance.
5. No Animal shall be slaughtered unless it has been inspected and certified by an authorized Veterinary Surgeon to
be free from any infectious or contagious disease (including the Foot and Mouth Disease and other Specified Disease).
Every animal so certified shall have been identified with an ear tag at the expenses of the owner of that animal.
6. All Cattle intended to be slaughtered should have been identified in accordance with the provisions of the
Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958.
7. Slaughtering of any animal shall be performed under the supervision of an Authorized Veterinary Surgeon or any
other person authorized by him in that behalf.
8. Every Person who slaughters an animal shall, at the time of slaughtering of animal, produce to an authorized
officer the following documents.
(a) the Butchers License ;
(b) Ownership voucher or a certificate of ownership in respect of that animal ;
(c) The Certificate issued by an Authorized Veterinary Surgeon to the effect that the animal is free from any
infectious or contagious disease (including Foot and Mouth Disease and other Specified Disease).
9. No Part of any Meat or carcass of  an animal slaughtered or any part therof shall be removed from the Slaughter
house Premises without a permission issued by an Authorized Veterinary Surgeon.
10. Selling, exposing for sale, offering for sale, storage, supply or distribution of meat or carcass of an animal
slaughtered or any part thereof shall be carried on except at the premises authorized by the Local Authority.
11. Only the meat or carcass or any part thereof, that has been approved by the authorized Veterinary Surgeon to be
from animal slaughtered in accordance with this Order shall be sold, exposed for sale, offered for sale, storage, supply or
distribution at the premises referred to in 10 above.
12. Only Vehicle approved by the Authorized Veterinary Surgeon shall be used for the transport of Meat or the
carcass.
13. Only the meat or carcass or any part  thereof that has been approved by the authorized Veterinary Surgeon to be
from animal slaughtered in accordance with this Order shall be transported.
05 - 689
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.