

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'22
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2016
15
15
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th  February, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
29th   January, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W. A. A. G . FONSEKA,
Government Printer ( Acting ).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2016.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 16
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"951- 2016 ckjdß ui 22 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'01'22
No. 1,951 - FRIDAY ,  JANUARY 22,  2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
N.B.–  Part  IV (A)  of  the Gazette  No. 1,950 of 14.01.2016 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'22
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2016
16
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
My  No. : 4/10/21351.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.:  b$6$3$2$258.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE   LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT is hereby notified that for the Residential Purpose,
Mr.  Dawatagolle Gedara Juwanis has  requested on lease a state
land  containing in extent about 0.0259 Hec. out of extent marked
lot No. 594 as  depicted in the  in plan No. F. C. P. 47 and  situated
in the village of  Jayanthipura which  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari
Division  of   Chethiyagiriya  coming  within the area of authority
of  Hingurakgoda Divisional  Secretariat in the District of
Polonnaruwa.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Lot No. 67 and  593  ;
On the East by : Lot No. 595  ;
On the  South by : Lot No. 595 and 75 ;
On the West by : Lot No. 75, 76 and 67.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  (From 15.06.1995
onwards) ;
(b) The Annual  amount of the Lease. – 4% of the  undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief  V aluer for the
Year 1995 ;
Penalty .- Treble  4% of the  developed  value of  the land;
(c) The  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(d) The lessees must not use this land for any purposes  other
than for  the purpose of  residential Purpose  ;
(e) The  lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary  and   by other  Institutions;
(f) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(h) Permission will not be given for other sub - leasing or  vesting
except for  vesting within the family or sub leasing or vesting
for the  purpose for which the land was obtained until
expiry  of 05 years from 07.12.2015. The  right to obain a
grant for  this  lease bond  will be given after the expiry of 05
years from 07.12.2015;
(i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
(j) House conditions activities must be completed within  the
time frame specified in alienating  land for  house  construction
purposes and the  failure to do  so will be deemed as a lapse
of the  long - term lease  bond and the  land  will have to be
re - vested to the government.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
L. P. C
HAMIKA SUBODINI,
Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, "Mihikatha Medura",
Land Secretariat,  Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
30th December, 2015.
01-689
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/44095.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: ALC/KG/10/01/c,$úÿ.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the  Commercial purpose of Dinavi
Power Private Company has requested on lease a  State land
containing in extent about 0.0871 Hec.  out of extent marked Lot
No. 39 as   depicted in the  Tracing No. F. V. P. 785 and  Lot No. E,
F and G as depicted  in the  Tracing No. KY/YTY/2011/224  situated
in the  Village of  Kithulgala South   with  belongs to the  Grama

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'22
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2016
17
Niladari Division  of  Kithulgala South  coming within the  area  of
authority of   Yatiyanthota  Divisional Secretariat in the  District of
Kegalle.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Galpoththa ;
On the East by : Dikhena Road  ;
On the  South by : Land of Piyadasa   ;
On the West by : Katarang Canal Reservation .
 The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease .– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( From
17.12.2015);
The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 4% of the  Commercial
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer for
the year 2015. This amount of the lease must be
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the amount
as  a result of the  revision will be not  less than  50% of the
amount that just preceded.
Premium  - Three times of the annual rent of the  lease  ;
(b) The lessee must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessee must not use this land for any purpose other
than for the purpose of  Commercial Activities  ;
(d) This  lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary/Scoping Committee/Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka and   by other  Institutions;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No sub - leasing can be done  until the expiry  of a  minimum
period of 05 years from 17.12.2015   ;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
 If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
W. A
YODHYA S. JAY AWARDANA ,
Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",Land Secretariat,
No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
31st December,  2015.
01-800
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.