

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
613
613
wxl 1"703 - 2011 wfm%a,a ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2011'04'21
No. 1,703 – THURSDAY , APRIL 21, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th April, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th April,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 614
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—  Tamil version of this Gazette is printed separately.
Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,702 of 15.04.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
614
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
DEPARTEMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE
Western Province Provincial Council
ONE YEAR VOCATIONAL COURSE OF TRAINING IN AGRICULTURE TO BE CONDUCTED AT THE DISTRICT
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING  CENTRES – HOMAGAMA (MALE) AND WALPITA (FEMALE) – 2011/2012
THE Provincial Director of Agriculture, Western Province, invites applications for the recruitment of students for the above co urse of
training. The course will be conducted in the Sinhala medium. This course of training is targeted for those who intend either to engage in
agriculture as a business or on the basis of self employment.
02. Certificates will be awarded to those who successfully complete this course, which will be in the form of a practical and
theoretical training. The subjects of the course are as follows.
(i) Agricultural entrepreneurship and career guidance ;
(ii) Principles of Agriculture and Development process ;
(iii) Agricultural Crop Technology ;
(iv) Management of Animal Production ;
(v) Agric-engineering techniques ;
(vi) Home Economics and Food technology.
In presenting this course of training through the aforesaid subjects, familiarization in the latest findings relating to the development
of modern agricultural technology (e. g.– Post Harvest Technology, Tissue Culture Technology, Greenhouse Cultivation), self employment
techniques (e. g.– Landscaping, Ornamental fish breeding, farm accounts, maintenance of farm equipment and training in tractor driving) and
a training modern methods of processing of information ( e. g.– operation of computers) will be provided to students. Development of
English knowledge of rural students and an understanding of the contemporary agriculturel policy will also be provided.
03. Conducting of the Course of Training.– The course which is over a period of one year constist of three terms. Written and
practical tests are conducted on all the subjects at the end of the first and second terms. Educational tours are organized within the second
term. During the third term all students are required to follow a project study in the selected field, in conjunction with an external agricultural
project/institution. Students are required to submit a project report at the end of the study. The final written and practical test will be held
on conclusion and thereafter certificates will be awarded to the students who complete 85% attendance and are successful upon a continuous
evaluation.
04. Scheme of Recruitment :
04.1 Educational qualifications :
1. Passes in six subjects including Sinhala Language (Language and Literature), Mathematics, Science, Social Studies and a
Technical subject (Agriculture, Needlework, Home Gardening, Home Economics, Accounts and Commerce, Motor
Mechanics) at the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in not more than two sittings.
04.2 Other qualifications :
(i) All applicants should be between the age of 17 and 25 years on the date of calling of applications ;
(ii) Applicants should be unmarried ;
(iii) Applicants should be in a physical condition suitable for practical agriculture (in proof whereof, a certificate obtained
from a Government Medical Officer should be submitted at the commencement of the course) ;
(iv) Eligible candidates will be called for an interview to be held by the Provincial Director of Agriculture and selection will
be made on the results thereof ;
(v) Preference will be given to persons who are engaged in agriculture and are prepared to continue it as a vocation ;
(vi) Applicants should adduce proof of permanent residence within the Western Province for at least two years out of the
three years immediately preceding the closing date of applications, with a certificate of residence obtained from the
Divisional Secretary of the area.
In addition.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
615
Where any persons who possess the educational and other qualifications and are not residents within the Western Province are
desirous of following the course, they will also be afforded an opportunity. However, residents of the Western Province will be  given
priority in making selections. It has been decided to select applicants outside the Western Province through an interview if a sufficient
number of application are not received within the province.
05. Incentive Allowance for the course if training :
(i) An incentive allowance of Two Hundred and Fifty Rupees (Rs. 250) for each day of attendance for training will be paid
to each trainee during the period of training. This allowance will have to be utilized to meet the cost of meals ;
(ii) All trainees will be provided with residential facilities during the period of training free of charge.
06. Procedure to be observed in participation in the course of training :
(i) A deposit of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty (Rs. 250) should be furnished ;
(ii) Basic facilities for engaging in agriculture after the completion of training should be available at least on a small scale ;
(iii) It is specially emphasized that neighter the Western Province Provincial Council nor the Central Government is under any
obligation to provide employment after the completion of training ;
(iv) A written undertaking should be given agreeing to comply with general rules and regulations imposed by the Training
Institute ;
(v) The authorities will take action to cancel the studentship of those who engage in any act of indiscipline and any act in
contravention of the rules and regulations, during the period of traiing.
07. Applications prepared on a sheet of paper 8 1/2 x 12(A4) using both sides and in accordance with the specimen form
appended, should be sent under registered cover to reach the Provincial Director of Agriculture, Office of the Provincial Direc tor of
Agriculture, (Western), No. 61-1/1, Sri Sangaraja Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before 15th of June, 2011. The words “Application for the
Vocational course of Training in Agriculture 2011/2012” should be written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope containin g the
application.
(i) The decision of the Provincial Director of Agriculture of the Western Province, with regard to recruitment shall be final.
(ii) Any application which is incomplete or not in order will be rejected without notice. Only a limited number of selected
applicants will be called for an interview.
(iii) Since only school-leavers will be considered for selection, it is compulsory for the school-leaving certificate to be
produced at the interview.
(iv) Copies of two character certification, one from the school where the applicant was educated and another from a person
of standing in the area and copies of educational and other qualifications should be annexed to the application.
(v) Original of the educational and other certificates together with the National Identity Card should be furnished at the
interview.
R. P. MAHINDAPALA,
Provincial Director of Agirculture,
Western.
Office of the Provincial Director of Agriculture,
(Western),
No. 61-1/1, Sri Sangaraja Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
29th March, 2011.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR THE ONE YEAR VOCATIONAL COURSE OF TRAINING IN AGRICULTURE AT THE DISTRICT AGRICULTURE
TRAINING CENTRES – HOMAGAMA (MALES) AND WALPITA (FEMALES) FOR THE YEAR 2011/2012
01. Full name of applicant :––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :––––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(ii) District of Residence :––––––––––.
04. Sex :––––––––––.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
616
05. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
06. (i) Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(ii) Institution and date of issue :––––––––––.
07. Name of Father or Guardian :––––––––––.
08. Address of Father or Guardian :––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications :
(a) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year :––––––––––.
Subjects passed Grade Su bjects passed Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year :––––––––––.
Subjects passed Grade Su bjects passed Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
(c) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination :
Year :––––––––––.
Subjects passed Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
10. Other Qualifications/Extra  Curricular Activities :
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
11. Have you been selected for a course of study in a Hihger Educational Institute or a Technical College ? If so, give details :––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished above are true and accurate. I am aware that my traineeship is liable to be can celled
without any inquiry after I am selected, if any of the particulars furnished herein are found to be incorrect.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
04–590
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.