

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.08.2010
1511
1511
wxl 1"668 - 2010 wf.daia;= ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'08'20
No. 1,668 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 20, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1513
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 27th August, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th
August, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,667 of 13.08.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.08.2010
1512
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.08.2010
1513
Posts – Vacant
AMENDMENT
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Marriages, Birth and Death Registrars
GALLE  DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified, that the post of Additional Marriage (General)
registrar of Wellaboda Pattu (Dodanduwa) Division of Hikkaduwa
Divisional Secretariat Division of Galle District which appeared in
the Gazette No. 1,651 of 23.04.2010 is hereby amended as the post
of Additional Marriage (General) Registrar of Wellaboda Pattu
Division of Hikkaduwa Divisional Secretariat Division of Galle
District.
It is further notified that all other details in the notification
concerned remain unchanged.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
08–402
–––––––––––
PROMOTION  OF  GRAMA  NILADHARIES  WHO
HA VE  COMPLETED  15  YEARS  OF  SERVICE  TO
GRADE  I  OF  THE  SERVICE  WITH  EFFECT  FROM
01.10.2009  ON  SENIORITY  AND  MERIT  AS  PER
CABINET  DECISION  ARRIEVED  AT  THE  CABINET
MEETING  HELD  ON  16.09.2009
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from Grama Niladharies in Garde
II who were in service as at 01.10.2009 and have possessed following
qualifications, to promote to Grade I on seniority and merit.
1. Prescriptions for promotions.– Grama Niladharies who have
satisfied qualifications in No. 2 below will be interviewed by and
interview board appointed by me. Accordingly, marks will be
allocated considering their seniority and merit. Candidates who
have proved basic qualifications at the interview based on the revision
made in procedure of promotion as per the cabinet decision will be
promoted to Grade I from 01.10.2009.
2. Qualifications :
(a) Shall have completed 15 years in service in Grade II of
Grama Niladhari Service as at 01.10.2009 including the
period of absorption to Provincial Public Service. (If the
officer has been absorbed into Grama Niladhari Service
whilst serving as Samurdhi/Govi Animator/Agriculture
Extension Officer/Special Services Officer/Cultivation
Officer, his permanent service in the previous service
shall also be included in the 15 years of service in Grade
II. Further when calculating the service of officers who
lost their posts in 1977 due to political reasons and have
been reinstated in service in 1995 as per the Cabinet
Decision No. CP/97/0419/05/016, the service period from
the date of first appointment in 1977 shall be taken into
consideration).
(b) Shall have completed five years satisfactory service in
Grade II of Grama Niladhari Service immediately preceding
01.10.2009 and earned salary increments due within that
period.
(c) Shall have passed the efficiency bar examination as
prescribed in the procedure of recruitment of Grama
Niladhari Service before 01.10.2009.
3. Salary Scale :
(i) Grade I of Grama Niladhari Service - Monthly - Rs. 16,680
- 09 x 240 - 10 x 320 - Rs. 22,040 (as per Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv)).
(ii) Officers who are promoted will be placed on due salary
step of the above salary scale in consistent to the provisions
of PA Circular 06/2006 and revisions which have already
been and would be made to the above circular.
4. Method of Promotion .– Candidates will be called for an
interview as to whether they have satisfied qualifications mentiond
in Para II.
(a) 20 marks for satisfactory service records - 2 marks will
be allocated for each year of satisfactory service falling
before the satisfactory service of five years prior to due
date.
(b) 20 marks for commendations - 4 marks will be allocated
for commendation certificates issued in accordance with
the approved form. Two marks will be allocated for each
of other commendation certificates.
(c) 10 marks for creating activities.
(d) 30 marks for seniority - two marks will be allocated for
each year of satisfactory service beyond 15 years of
service.
(e) 20 marks for the service experience and candidate's
understanding on entrusted duties.
(f) Candidates, who are recommended by the interview board
to the effect that they have satisfied basic qualifications
as per the decision of the cabinet of Ministers, will be
promoted with effect from 01.10.2009. However, the
officer will not have any right for the promotion if he was
not in the service by 01.10.2009.
5. Calling of applications :
(i) Application should be perfected in duplicate. One of
these applications should be sent by registered post to

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.08.2010
1514
relevant District Secretary through Divisional Secretary
before 20.09.2010. The other copy should be filled in the
personal file.
(ii) District Secretary should send a document containing
particulars of applications received on due date to the
Ministry within two weeks. (It is not required to send
applications).
(iii) Candidates should prepare their applications strictly in
accordance with the specimen form. Candidates may
prepare their applications either on a computer or using a
typewriter and it should be perfected with the inclusion
of their particulars accurately and clearly.
(iv) Copies of any document or documents should not be
attached to the applications. However, they should be
kept at hand by the candidate to submit them whenever
requested.
(v) Applications which are incomplete and which are not
forwarded through the channel indicated in this
notification will be rejected.
D. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
29th July, 2010.
Specimen Form of Application
(Application should be prepared on paper of
A4 size using both sides)
APPLICATION FOR PROMOTION TO GRADE I OF
GRAMA NILADHARI SERVICE ON MERIT
PART I
01. (i) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
02. (i) Official address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private address :–––––––––––.
03. NIC No. :–––––––––––.
04. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
05. Period of service in the post of Grama Niladhari as at
01.10.2009 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
06. Date of first appointment to the Public Service :––––––––––.
07. Date of appointment/absorption to Grama Niladhari service :–
––––––––––.
08. Particulars of absorption, if the officer has been absorbed to
Grama Niladhari service (Please complete the relevant para) :
Service Date of Period of
Appointment Service
A Service as a Special Services
Officer
B Cultivation Officers' Service
C Agriculture Extension Service
D Samurdhi or Govi Niyamaka
Service
E Other
09 (i) Name and number of the Grama Niladhari Division where
the officers serves at present :–––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretary's Division to which the above Grama
Niladhari service belongs :–––––––––––.
(iii) District :–––––––––––.
10. Districts and Divisional Secretary's Division where the officer
has served (including durations) :
District Divisional Secretary's Duration
Division From              To
11. (i) Whether all salary increments within the service period
have been earned ? :–––––––––––.
(ii) If not, furnish particulars :–––––––––––.
12. Particulars of the release to other service, if you have/had been
released for the service in a corporation or any other service :
–––––––––––.
13. Particulars of no-pay leave obtained for foreign employment
or any other purpose, if any :–––––––––––.
14. Creative activities of the candidate during the service period
(indicate the activities carried out and people benefited etc. :
–––––––––––.
15. Commendations received during the service period :––––––––.
16. Whether any disciplinary action has been taken against you. If
so, furnish particulars :–––––––––––.
I, ................................. do hereby certify that the above
particulars mentioned above by me are true and correct. I am fully
aware that I am liable to be disqualified for the promotion to Grade
I of the service and also liable to be subjected to disciplinary action
if any particular furnished by me is found to be false. Further, I
have no objection for taking above action against me.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.08.2010
1515
PART II
TO BE COMPLETED BY DIVISIONAL SECRETARY
District Secretary,
District Secretariat,
..........................
I hereby certify that,
(i) The particulars mentioned by Mr./Mrs./Miss
....................  have been compared with the particulars
in his/her personal file and found to be true and correct
and,
(ii) Disciplinary action are not being taken/is not intended
to be taken against her/him and,
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(iii) His/her service had been satisfactory during the
immediately preceding five years and he/she has been
appointed to Grade II of Grama Niladhari Service with
effect from ............. and promoted/exempted beyond
efficiency bar and this application has been filed in the
personal file of the officer.
–––––––––––––,
Divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
08–385