

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2262$47 – 2022 ckjdrs 14 jeks isl=rdod – 2022'01'14
No. 2262/47 – FRIDAY, JANUARY   14, 2022
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 35825 – 14(01/2022)
My No.: CI/1813. 
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between De La Rue Lanka Currency & Security Print (pvt) Limited, Export  
Processing Zone, Biyagama, Malwana  of the one part and the Inter Company Employees Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri 
Mawatha, Koswatte, Battaramulla of the other part on 12th November, 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
06th January,  2022.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 2A
Collective Agreement No. 04 of 2021
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS Collective Agreement made on this 12th of November, 2020, pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act, between De La 
Rue Lanka Currency & Security Print (Pvt) Limited, a Company incorporated under the laws of Sri Lanka, having its principal 
place of business at Export Processing zone, Biyagama, Malwana of One part (hereinafter reﬀ ered to as " the Employer") 
and the Inter Company Employees Union, a Trade Union registered under the laws of Sri Lanka, having its registered oﬃ  ce 
at 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta, Battaramulla, of the other part, (hereinafter referred to as " the Union")witnessth and 
it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
1.  Parties to be covered and bound 
 This Agreement shall  cover and bind De La Rue Lanka Currency & Security Print (Pvt) Limited, the Inter Company 
Employees Union and employees of the Employer in manual grades on permanent monthly contracts of Employment 
(hereinafter referred to as " Employees").
2. Date of Operation and Duration
 This Agreement shall be eﬀ  ective for a period of 12 months from the 1st day of July, 202 0 and shall be in force 
till 30th of June, 2021 and shall thereafter continue to be in force unless it  is repudiated by either party giving one 
month's notice in writing to the other, provided however, that neither party hereto shall give such notice to the other 
before the 30th day of June, 2021.
 All parties agreed to put forward their proposals for renewal of the Collective Agreement, In writing, at least 6 
months prior to expiry of the Agreement.
3. Revision of basic salaries:
 
 (i)  Salaries drawn by employees covered and bound by this Agr eement shall be revised in the following manner;
   1st July, 2020- 5%
 (ii)  De La Rue believes in recognizing and rewarding the best  performers, hence the company at its discretion may 
grant additional rewards to best performers depending on the availability of budgetary allowances.
4. Bonus
 Without prejudice to the claim of the Employer that bonus paym ents are ex- gratia, the Employer shall continue to 
pay two months' salary as annual bonus.
 The hitherto practice with regard to the time of payment and d eductions based on attendance, penalties made 
after a domestic inquiry, unauthorized absence shall continue. New employees shall enjoy the beneﬁ t of the bonus 
proportionately. The current practice of 25% forfeiture of annual bonus for disciplinary written warnings will continue.
5. Production bonus
 i) The Employer shall continue to make payment of a production  bonus equivalent to one month's salary of an 
employee subject to the achievement of the conditions of SSQCDP which, will be published at the beginning 
of the ﬁ nancial year.
 ii) However, it is also agreed by the Employer to make payment  on pro- rata basis of the production bonus in 
the event each of the said criteria is achieved based on the weights in precentages are mentioned against each 
criterion.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 3A
 iii) Parties agree that the Employer reserves its right to 10%  of forfeiture on production bonus payable on account 
of written warnings issued after a proper investigation.
 iv) In addition to the above, the deduction from the productio n bonus shall also be made on account of absence 
and shall be pro- rated on a weekly basis. This condition shall be applicable for any period of absence over and 
above the stipulated leave entitlement. E.g. Deduction of 1/52 of production bonus for every 5 days absence.
6. Shift allowance:
 Subject to the present criteria of payment it is agreed by par ties that the shift allowances will be as follows for the 
duration of the duration of the Agreement:
 1st Shift (6.00 a.m. to 2.00 p.m.) - Rs. 120.00
 2nd Shift (2.00 p.m. to 10.00 p.m.) - Rs. 150.00
 3rd Shift (Night Shift) - Rs. 850.00
7. Medical beniﬁ ts
 i) OPD - The Employer shall reimburse expenses incurred by emp loyees in respect of OPD treatment to a maximum 
of Rs. 30,000/- per year and such amount shall be oﬀ ered to each conﬁ rmed employee as a family unit.
 ii) Hospitalization Insurance - The Employer shall pay the pre mium for Hospitalization Insurance as a family unit, 
in respect of hospitalization up to a maximum of Rs. 130,000/- per employee per annum.
8. Compassionate leave - leave for funerals
  The Company agrees to increase the leave for funerals from 2 to 3 days and in the event the funeral precedes a 
weekend or ' days oﬀ  '  the leave will be considered from the following working day, but it must be within 7 days  
of the death of the relevant family member. The family under consideration for the intents and purposes of the leave 
are as follows ;
    
 • Parents.
 • Spouse
 • Children
 • Own siblings (brothers and sisters)
 • Own maternal or paternal grandparents
 • Mother - In - Law / Father - In - Law
9. 
Shift handover / take over time
 The shift handover / take over time to remain as ten (10) minu tes in order to ensure smooth continuation of work 
between shifts. Eﬀ ective shift times will be as follows,
 1 st Shift  -  5.55 a. m. to 2. 05 p. m.
 2 nd Shift - 1.55 a. m. to 10. 05 p. m.
 3 rd Shift - 9.55 a. m. to 6. 05 p. m.
10. 
Trade Union Action
 The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree that t hey shall not, during the operation of this Agreement, 
take or resort to any form of Trade Union action in respect of any matter covered by this Agreement.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 4A
 Further,the Union agrees that in the event of any form of trad e union action the uniformed security personnel will not 
put the site at risk by taking part in the trade union action. The uniformed security will at all times agree to follow 
the sites security procedures including instructions and guidan ce provided by the site's Security Manager and the 
Plant Manager or in absence of the Plant Manager the Acting Plant Manager with 100% compliance to ensure that 
the site is not at risk under any circumstance.
 The uniformed security personnel agree to continue to report f or duty and carry out their routine work responsibilities 
in full despite any form of collective action by the trade union. Additionally, the Security personnel agree to carry out 
and complete work/tasks that they are engaged in at the time of the industrial action both inside and outside the site 
until it is completed in line with normal or enhanced security procedures in full, e.g:inspecting loading operations, 
guarding or escorting duties will be carried out despite any tr ade union action, however, it is noted that new tasks 
of escorting and loading will not be undertaken during collective action. Utmost priority will be given to ensure the 
site's security is maintained during any form of collective action.
11. Dispute Settlement Procedure
 a) The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree tha t any dispute/problem/issue that may arise between 
the parties, in respect of any matter not covered by this Agree ment, to resolve such dispute/problem/issue in 
the manner provided in clauses (b) to (e) below.
 b) Whenever there is a dispute, a wrritten datement of the dis pute should be forwarded by the Union's Branch 
Committee to the Employer, and at 14 days given for the Employer to resolve the dispute. This letter should be 
date stamped by the HR and handed back into the Union Representative.
 c) If no satisfactory solution is found, the matter should be referred to the Parent Union and to The Employers' 
Federation of Ceylon (EFC) for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute.
 d) If after the discussion, the matter cannot be resolved by t he intervention of the EFC and the Parent Union, the  
conciliatory proceedings under the Industrial Disputes Act Should be followed.
 e) If after conciliation has failed in the labour Department, the Union wished to take Trade Union action, written 
notice should be given of not less than fourteen days (14) to t he Employer and the EFC regarding such Trade 
Union action. For the avoidance of doubt, this is addtion ot the 14 days above in (b).
 It is reaﬃ   rmed by parties to adhere to the dispute resolution procedure stated above in resolving any disputes.
12. Co-operation between the parties
 i) The Employer agrees to continue with the facility of remitt ing check oﬀ  directly to the Union.
 ii) The Employer will continue to grant the facility of permitting the President and the Secretary of the branch to 
attend monthly meetings of the Union. The Employer also agrees to release not more than two employees to 
attend to Training Programmes/ Seminars conducted by the Union, not more than twice in each calendar year 
provided, however, that the Union request in writing for this facility with suﬃ  cient notice to the Employer.
 iii) Employees agree to continue to extend their fullest co-op eration in respect of enhancing productivity at the 
work place, which include the following:
 a) Employees will extend their fullest co-operation in respect  of any change in work arrangements and shift 
operations to facilitate production requirements. The Employer agrees to discuss with the Union and the 
employees, proposed changes in work arrangements in advance.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 5A
 (b) Changes in relation to work arrangements and shift operati on as currently practiced at the work place. In this 
regard it is agreed by the Employer to discuss in advance with the Union and the employees, of any changes 
it proposes to implement in relation to work arrangements.
  As such, the Union is agreeing that during periods where ther e is no work to run machines/ packing, the 
crew/s will remain at home unless otherwise the Company has work in other departments in Production to 
deploy them. A prior communication will be done to the Union and the employees in this regard.
 (c) Flexibility to move within currently practiced shift patte rns to facilitate training and multi-skilling, manning of 
new machinery and prodution requirements will be continued and carried out to ensure optimization of human 
capital. I.e., it is the prerogative of the management to move shifts around to ensure that the product/site Security 
concerns are addressed.
 
 (d) The Union has agreed that Uniformed Security Personnel vac ancies which arise due to retirements/ resignations 
will not be backﬁ lled by permanent cardres. Ten (10) vacancies will be backﬁ lled by 3rd party security who 
will be enaged to over the period. This is in order to comply w ith the ISO 14298 standards observations and 
non- conformances.
 (e) All vacancies arising on site will be recruited as per Gro up's Recruitment Policy. I.e. failing to source for the 
right candidate internally will result in the Company sourcing the suitable candidate externally. In the interest 
of development of internal candidates the applicants should be given feedback as to what/ where they need to 
improve.
 (f) All activities connected to the management of quality, env ironment, health and safety, implementation of 
international standards, continuous improvement and training activities.
 (g) All neccesary measures in relation to handing over of work  between shifts. In view of this undertaking, the 
Employer will continue to implement the present practice of gra nding a agree period of ﬁ ve minutes in the 
event the employee report late.
 (h) Taking all necessary measures by employees in the Maintena nce Division in respect of breakdowns in order to 
minimize the impact on production including ﬂ exibility to work during factory shut- downs (New year, Wesak, 
Christmas and 4 other days, which will be agreed by both parties in November for the following calendar year) 
if required for annual maintenance and other maintenance matters.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 6A
In case of a dispute arising as to the interpretation of this collective Agreement, the English original shall prevail.
In witness where of the parties aforesaid have here unto set th eir hands at  Colombo on this 12th day of November Two 
Thousand and Twenty.
EOG01 - 0150


<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 7A
My No.: CI/1877. 
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective  Agreement entered into between Varun Beverages Lanka (Pvt) Limited, No. 140, Low Level Road, 
Embulgama, Ranala of the one part and the Inter Company Employe es Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatte, 
Talangama of the other part on 28th December, 2020 is hereby pu blished in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956). 
 B. K. Prabath Chandrakeerthi,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
06th January, 2022.
Collective Agreement No. 07 of 2021
Collective Agreement
By & Between
Varun Beverages Lanka (PVT) ltd.
and
inter company employees union
dated : 28th December, 2020 
Collective Agreement
This Agreement is made and entered into at Colombo in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 28th day of 
December 2020:
BETWEEN 
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited a company duly registered under the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and having 
its registered oﬃ  ce at No: 140, Low Level Road, Embulgama, Ranala in the said Republic (hereinafter called and referred 
to as "Employer or VBLL or The Company" which term or expression as herein used shall where the context so requires or 
admits mean and include the said Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited and its successor or successors)
AND 
Inter Company Employees Union,  a trade Union duly registered under the laws of Sri Lanka and having its registered 
oﬃ  ce at No: 259/9, Sethsisri Mawatha, Koswatta, Thalangama in the said Republic (hereinafter called and referred toas "The 
Union" which term or expression as herein used shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said "Inter 
Company Employees Union" and its successor and successors) 
1. Title: 
   
   This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Interco mpany Employees Union - Varun Beverages Branch Manual 
and Operative Grades Employees Collective Agreement of 2021.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 8A
 2. Parties Covered and Bound.– 
  The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to the Employer,  the Union and its members in the Manual and Operative 
Grades engaged on Permanent basis in the Company. The Provision s of this Agreement shall not apply to trainees / 
apprentices / outsourced employees (oﬀ  Role).
 3. Duration.– 
  This Agreement shall take eﬀ  ect from the ﬁ rst day (01st) of January Two Thousand and Twenty - One (2021) and shall 
continue to remain in force till Thirty - ﬁ rst day (31st) of December Two Thousand and Twenty - Three (2023). Further, it 
is agreed by and between parties that neither shall attempt to vary or alter the terms of this agreement during the pendency 
of same. This Agreement shall, unless otherwise terminated by either party giving two month's written notice to the other, 
coutinue to remain in force provided, however, that neither party shall give such notice prior to the Thirty First (31st) day 
of October Two Thousand and Twenty - Three (2023), and the Agreement shall not stand terminated prior to the Thirty 
First (31st) day of December Two Thousand and Twenty - Three (2023).
 4. Salaries.–  
  With eﬀ  ect from 01st day of January 2021 the salaries of the employee s covered and bound by this Agreement will be 
increased in the following manner subject to performance appraisal grades. The following revisions will be strictly subject 
to achieving the production norms and eﬃ  ciency parameters set out in SCHEDULE (01)
    Perfomance Perfomance Perfomance
 Salary Increase - Period  Appraisal  Appraisal Appraisal
   Grade - A  Grade - B Grade - C
 0 1
ST January 2021 to 31ST December 2021     Rs.4250.00     Rs.4000.00 Rs. 3750.00
 0 1ST January 2022 to 31ST December 2022      Rs.4250.00  Rs.4000.00 Rs. 3750.00
 0 1ST January 2023 to 31ST December 2023      Rs.4250.00  Rs.4000.00 Rs. 3750.00
 5. Bonus: 
 If Company gains a proﬁ t in a ﬁ nancial year, employees will be paid a bonus as per the discretion of the management. 
 6. Annual Picnic: 
 The Employer agrees to facillitate the annual picnic as per th e existing practice of the company. The annual picnic shall 
not disturb the day-to-day production process and it shall organize by the Union with the consultation of the Employer's 
Human Resources Department. If due to operational exigencies of the business, this should be organized on the mutual 
understanding and approval of Head of the Department, DGM - pla nt/DGM - Quality Assurance / Senior Manager - 
Maintenance and the GM - plant is mandatory. 
 7. Shift Allowance: 
 The Employer agrees to pay Rs. 150.00 as Night shift allowance  to employees engaged in the third shift, from 11.00 
pm. to 7.00 am with eﬀ ect from 01ST day of January 2021. 
 
 8. Safety Instructions / Uniforms / PPE's:
  All employees should follow the safety instructions and safegu ards. The Company will provide required uniforms as 
per the existing practice and one pair of safety shoes to each Manual & Operator grades employees in the plant, every 
year as a part ot their uniform. Failure to wear uniforms / saf ety shoes / Personal Protective Equipment while on duty 
will result in disciplinary action against employees.
  

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 9A
 9. Productivity Improvement, Elimination of Waste and Ensuring Product Integrity:
 The employees agree to co-operate with the Employer to enhance productivity levels and to minimize waste in all forms 
in the mutual interest of preserving the future of Varun Bevera ges Lanka (Pvt) Limited. The employees conﬁ rm that 
they will take every step and make every eﬀ ort to ensure product integrity.
10. Trade Union Action:
 
 The Union and the employees agree that they shall not during the pendency of this Agreement make any demamds for 
wage increases or related allowances / payments, over and above  those stated in this agreement. The Union and the 
employees further agree that they shall not resort to any form of trade union action relating to any matter covered by 
this Agreement.
11. Disputes Settlement Procedure: 
 In the event of any industrial dispute that may arise on a mat ter not covered by this Agreement, parties shall endeavor 
to have it settled by following the dispute resolution procedure set out below.
 (a) Whenever there is a dispute, a written statement of the dispute should be forwarded by the Union's branch committee 
to the employer, and at least two weeks given for the employer to resolve the dispute;
 
 (b) If no satisfactory solution is found, the matter should be  referred to the parent union and to the Employers' Federation 
of Ceylon (EFC) for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute;
 (C) If after the discussion, the matter cannot be resolved by the intervention of the EFC and the parent union, conciliatory 
proceedings under the industrial Disputes Act should be followed;
 (D) If after the conciliation has failed in the Labour Departm ent, the union wishes to take trade union action, written notice 
should be given of not less than 14 days to the Employer and to the EFC regarding such Trade Union action.
12. Force Majeure: 
 No Party shall be responsible or liable for any delay or failu re to perform its obligations under this Contract due to 
unforeseen circumstances or any event which is beyond that party's reasonable control and without its fault or negligence, 
including but not limited to, acts of God, war, riots, acts or terror, internal strife, embargoes, strikes, lockouts, acts of 
any Government authority, delays in obtaining licenses or rejection of applications under applicable laws, ﬁ re, tsunami, 
storms or ﬂ oods.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 10A
In witness hereof parties have set their hands hereunto on this  Twenty - Eight (28th) day of December Two Thousand and 
Twenty (2020) at Colombo.


<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'14
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 14.01.2022
 11A
SHEDULE - 01
ESSENTIAL BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS
Applicability of Settlement: The terms and conditions of Settlement would come into eﬀ ect from the date of signing of this  
settlement and shall be in operation for a period of 36 months (3 Yrs.). Union will not raise any demand of monetary nature 
during the tenure of this settlement.
Operational Eﬃ  ciencies: The Associates shall ensure that the key operationl eﬃ  ciencies as under are maintained as per the 
following production standards:
  KPI's Target %
 a) Plant Quality 98
 b) Trade Quality 97
 c) FOOD Safety Blue
 d) Overall NE 85.00
 e) Concentrate Yield (Combined) 99.96
 f) CO2 Yield 75.00
 g) Preform Yield (Combined) 99.59
 h) Crown Yield (Combined) 99.60
 i) Closure Yield (Combined) 99.80
 j) Power usage (Beverage) kwH / 8oz 0.32 (Per / 8oz case)
 k) Blow molding power kwH / BSU 0.310  (Per / BSU)
 l) Boiler Fuel Consumption Kg / 8Oz 0.035
  Cs (fo)
 
 
a) Employee Productivity & General Requirement:
  - Every associate shall work to achieve 5S targets allocated to his / her circle
  - The entire responsibility of workstation with respect to, s hift scheduling, RM / PM etc. record keeping/ 
maintaining all logbooks including, preventive checklist etc. will be with the associate of the respective work 
station/ machine.
  - It is mandatory that all associates will maintain the log b ook / record / documents of their respective work 
place. The engineers shall review such records daily & countersign the book / record.
  - Maintenance should be done by concerned operator without de manding extra manpower for routine cleaning 
practices.
  - Safety rules should be strictly followed; Smoking & Usage o f cell-phones in prohibited area shall be strictly 
stopped 
  - In the interest of safety, we shall not only stop smoking &  using cell phones in prohibited area, but shall also 
not allow others to do so. Further, such instances shall be bro ught to the notice of the management to take 
corrective steps.
  - Organization may call any associate for duty on any close /  oﬀ  day which may be compensated as per the 
applicable laws.
 b) Both parties agree that further to Clause 4 above, 10% of the employees will be categorized as "A" ,80% as "B" 
and 10% "C" respectively.
EOG01 - 0149
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA