

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"087 - 2018 wf.daia;= ui 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'08'31
No. 2,087 -  FRIDAY , AUGUST  31, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...    ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... 854
By-Laws ... 856
Posts - Vacant ...     —
         PAGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... —
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
853 -
N.B.—    The List of Jurors in Colombo District Jurisdiction Areas in Year 2018 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
Tamil, English Languages. 
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  21st September, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th September,  2018.
 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81445 - 5,403 (08/2018)
Note.–  Intellectual Property (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of 24 of August, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08.31
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 31.08.2018
854
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Notiﬁ cation made under Section 5 (1) of Chapter II of Public and Private
Cemetery Ordinance No. 57 of 1946
BY virtue of powers vested in me under Paragraph (b) of Sub Section II of Section 02 of Provincial Council (Concequential 
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 to be read with Section 5(1) of Chapter II of Public and Private Cemetery Ordinance No. 57 
of 1946, I, Dassanayaka Gunarathna Basnayaka Mudiyanselage Dharmasiri Dassanayake, Chief Minister and the Minister 
in charge of the subject of Local Government in the North Western Province, do hereby declare that the cemetery located 
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Galgamuwa in Kurunegala District of the North Western Province set out 
in the following schedule shall be used as a public cemetery for burying, or cremation of dead bodies.
 D
ASSANAYAKA GUNARATHNA BASNAYAKA MUDIYANSELAGE
 D HARMASIRI DASSANAYAKE,
 Chief Minister in the North Western Province and
  the Minister of Finance and Planning, Engineering Services, Law and Order, 
 Education, Local Government and Local Administration, 
 Economic Development, Environment Affairs, 
 Water Supply and Drainage and Tourism.
 North Western Province
On 29th December, 2017,
Chief Minister's Ofﬁ ce Kurunegala.
SCHEDULES
01. Nallachiy Cemetery
Lot No. 57 of F. V . P. No. 3427 of the State land called Nallachiya-hena Situated in Nallachiya Village of Nallachiya 
Grama Niladhari Division No. 40 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in the North Western 
Province containing in extent 03 Acres 01 Rood 03 Perches (One Hectare and 320 decimals (1.32) ) bounded on the North 
by – Lot No. 56, on the East by Lot No. 58, on the South by Village boundary of Medawachchiya F. V . P. 3419 and on the 
West by – Lot No. 55.
02. Katuwewa Cemetery
Lot No. 11 of F. V . P. No. 3406 of the State land called Katuwewa Situated in Katuwewa Village of Katuwewa Grama 
Niladhari Division No. 42 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in the North Western Province 
containing in extent 03 Acres 00 Rood 29 Perches bounded on the North by – Lot No. 106, on the East by Lot No. 106 and 
Lot No. 16, on the South by Lot No. 16 and Lot No. 12 and on the West by – Lot Nos. 12 and 106.
03. Thorawa Cemetery
Lot No. 44 of F. V . P. No. 3407 of the State land called Dangahakerakoppuwa Situated in Mahathorawa Village of Thorawa 
Grama Niladhari Division No. 44 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in the North Western 
Province containing in extent 02 Acres 00 Rood 16 Perches bounded on the North by – Lot No. 32, on the East by Village 
Boundary of Udathorawa, on the South by Lot No. 45, on the West by – Lot No. 32 and the Village Boundary.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'31
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 31.08.2018
855
04. Nahettikulama Cemetery
Lot No. 09 of F. V . P. No. 3299 of the State land called Ehetugahapitiya situated in Thimbiriyawa Village of Nahettikulama 
Grama Niladhari Division No. 45 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in the North Western 
Province containing in extent 01 Acre 00 Rood 38 Perches bounded on the North by – Lot No. 06, on the East by Lot No. 
08, on the South by Lot No. 08, on the West by – Lot No. 08 the Village Boundary.
05. Ihalagama (Thambare) Cemetery
Lot No. 08 of F. V . P. No. 3290 of the State land called Thawalampitiyahena situated in Thambare Village of Ihalagama 
Grama Niladhari Division No. 46 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in the North Western 
Province containing in extent 00 Acre 02 Roods 31 Perches bounded on the North by – Lot Nos. 06 and 07, on the East by 
Lot No. 07, on the South by Lot No. 54, on the West by – Lot No. 06 the Village Boundary.
06. Nochchiya (Ambagahapitiya) Cemetery
Lot No. 27 of F. V . P. No. 3743 of the State land called Ambagahapitiya situated in Nochchiya Village of Nochchiya 
Grama Niladhari Division No. 48 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in the North Western 
Province containing in extent 00 Acre 03 Roods 35 Perches bounded on the North by – Lot No. 28, on the East by Lot No. 
54, on the South by Lot No. 32, on the West by – Lot No. 26 the Village Boundary.
07. Kohombankulama Cemetery
Lot No. 124 of F. V . P. No. 3498 of the State land called Dunugahamadalawatta situated in Kohombankulama Village of 
Kohombankulama Grama Niladhari Division No. 49 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in 
the North Western Province containing in extent 01 Acre 00 Rood 05 Perches bounded on the North by – Lot No. 123, on 
the East by Lot No. 26, on the South by Lot No. 26, on the West by – Lot No. 26 the Village Boundary.
08. Palugolla Cemetery
Lot No. 20 of F. V . P. No. 3422 of the State land called Siyambalagahakerakoppuwa situated in Palugolla Village of Palugolla 
Grama Niladhari Division No. 50 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in the North Western 
Province containing in extent 02 Acres 00 Rood 20 Perches bounded on the North by – Lot Nos. 18 and 19, on the East by 
Lot Nos. 18-21, on the South by Lot Nos. 21 and 22, on the West by – Lot Nos. 19 and 22.
09. Palugolla (Thammennawetiya) Cemetery
Lot No.21 of F. V . P. No. 3421 of the State land called Soniyagala Mukalana situated in Thammennawetiya Village of 
Pallugolla Grama Niladhari Division No.50 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in the North 
Western Province containing in extent 03 Acre 00 Rood 26 Perches bounded on the North by – Lot No. 48, on the East by 
Lot Nos. 48 and 20, on the South by Lot Nos. 20 and 22, on the West by – Lot Nos. 22 and 48.
10. Mahagalgamuwa (Gojaragama) Cemetery
Lot No. 33 of F. V . P. No. 3198 of the State land called Ambalangala Mukalana, the Village  boundary situated in Gojaragama 
Village of Mahagalgamuwa Grama Niladhari Division No. 60 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala 
District in the North Western Province containing in extent 00 Acre 00 Rood 34 Perches bounded on the North by – Lot No. 
37, on the East by Sluice Canal, on the South by Lot No. 45, on the West by – Lot Nos. 45 and 34.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08.31
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 31.08.2018
856
11. Poroththukadawala Cemetery
Lot No. 258 of F. V . P. No. 3853 of the State land called Wewlhalayaua, the situated in Poroththukadawala Village  
Poroththukadawala Grama Niladhari Division No. 64 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District 
in the North Western Province containing in extent 0.0587 Hactares, bounded on the North by – Lot No. 257 and Village 
boundary of Walaswewa, on the East by Lot Nos. 257 and 259, on the South by Lot No. 259, on the West by Village 
Boundary of Walaswewa.
12. Palukadawala Cemetery
Lot No. 178 of (K. M.) Plan No. 420017 of the State land called Mahapitiyeyaya, situated in Palukadawala Village of 
Palukadawala Grama Niladhari Division No. 73 of Divisional Secretariat Division Galgamuwa, Kurunegala District in the 
North Western Province containing in extent 0.3032 Hectares, bounded on the North by – Lot No. 174, on the East by Lot 
No. 179, on the South by Lot No. 179, on the West by Lot No. 208.
08 - 1139
By - Laws
 1. It is imposed as per the power vested in the Balangoda, Urban Council by Section 157 which should 
be read along with sub-section 153 (1) of Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance No. 61 of 
1939.
 2. Maintenance, formalization, supervision, controlling and administrative of the Balangoda Urban 
Council.
 3. This by law is named as the By-Law of Maintenance, formalization, supervision, controlling and 
administrative of the Balangoda Urban Council.
 4. All the buildings in the weekly fair should have been constructed from bricks, stones or permanent 
building material and the ﬂ oor of every weekly fair building should have been constructed with 
concrete and the ﬂ oor of the house should have been constructed at an elevation of minimum one 
feet from the ground level.
BALANGODA URBAN COUNCIL
By-Laws
BY virtue of powers vested under Sections 153 and 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance which come under power of 
authority of 255, I, the Governor of Sabaragamuwa Province declare that the following By-law adopted by the Balangoda 
Urban Council has been approved by me as per the powers vested in me in Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance.
 Niluka Ekanayake,
 Governor,
 Sabaragamuwa Province.
12th July, 2018,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
MAINTENANCE, FORMALIZATION, SUPERVISION, CONTROLLING AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
WEEKLY FAIR OF THE BALANGODA URBAN COUNCIL
Power Vested 
in the Council 
Legal Provision
Subject of the 
by law & aims 
Name
Tasks to be 
performed

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'31
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 31.08.2018
857
 5. The roof should have been constructed with any permanent roo ﬁ ng methodology. Every roof should 
have been made for draining rain water.
 6. Except on a special occasion, space between two lines of business rooms within the building should 
be of 02m. wide and the pedestrian portion should be built with permanent building material to suit 
the travelling of the consumers. The rain water should be drained without interrupting the intercourse 
of passengers thereby.
 7. Every stall should consist of metal sheet on a bund from bricks, cement blocks, or laterite. However, 
when it is made of concrete Sheet that sheet should be plastered burnished with cement or ﬁ xed 
with ﬂ oor tiles. When there is no necessity to do so the lines dividing each part should be marked 
in white.
 8. An adequate number of Latrines and urinals should be made available separately for males and 
females and citizens of special necessities. The ﬂ oor should be ceramic tiles and the walls of such 
latrines should be ceramic tiled at a height of one metro.
 9. It is legal to maintain either a restaurant or tea or coffee shop made in accordance with a plan 
approved by the council with in the premises of the weekly fair.
 10. It is the task of the council to make a supply of electricity for the use of every  Sales Centre of the 
weekly fair on necessity.
 11. Having taken the situations in sales Centres of the weekly fair into consideration sales of meat, ﬁ sh, 
dried ﬁ sh, vegetables, fruits, provisions and other sales items there should be separate apartments 
by the Balangoda Urban Council. It is the task of the Urban Council to display the fabrication at 
the entrance of the weekly fair.
 12. Wastes generating within the premises.
  i. Bio waste matter
  ii. Glasses
  iii. Paper and materials using paper.
  iv. Polythine and plastic or materials of plastic or polythine or plastic and regiform.
  v. Iron or other metal or iron or other parts mixed with metal.
  vi. Dangerous Waste matter.
 Buggies or vessels or tanks that can be collected separately should be kept in a separate 
place the buggies or vessels or tanks made for putting bio waste matter should be well 
closed so that mice, ﬂ ies, any insects, or birds cannot enter or there should be a proper 
way of taking away the waste generated in the premises.
 13. Any space meant for sales purpose in the weekly fair should be speci ﬁ cally marked by the council.
 14. In case of ending the business by the sellers of the weekly fair in the business premises or the seal 
should be washed and cleaned occasionally.
 15. On an occasion where the sales are over in the weekly fair and completely closed and on every 
occasion any sales stall is on closed and going away all the electric lamps and electric equipment 
should be made inactive.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08.31
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 31.08.2018
858
 16. any sales material or good or any sales equipment and any other things that is brought to the weekly 
fair, such material or good should not be left away from the limits mentioned in section 07 above or 
allowed to do so, except on an occasion when such material is taken away.
 17. Selling should not be done is any place other than in the premises permitted for transaction of business 
and in the places where mobile sale is permitted and or any action should be done so as to disturb the 
pedestrians.
 18. Any individual should not do any cooking in any place in the weekly fair other than in a place 
mentioned in the 09th by-law.
 19. In any weekly fair belonging to the Balangoda Urban Council,
  I. Behaving having drugs or liquor or using insane words or begging,
  II. Staying in the premises after the day's work is over,
 III. Destroying, damaging or dis ﬁ guring any building, construction or ﬁ xation or any vase of 
ﬂ owers grown for beau trifurcation or kept or any name board or any material.
 IV . impurifying wasting or letting wasting, wasting in any manner, bathing from that water, 
washing animals and washing vegetable in any place other than in the place meant for washing 
vegetables and fruits.
 V . Keeping goods in a way un accessible to the main key board or damaging the main board,
 VI. Fraudulently obtaining a water connection from the main pipe line which is lain within the 
building or from any other pipe line,
 VII. Felling and displaying vegetables and meat or ﬁ sh or making arrangement to do so in any place 
other than the places reserved for such purposes,
 VIII. Bringing foot bicycles or motor cycles or motor vehicles to any place other than the places 
prepared for them within the weekly fair. Premises.
20 . Any person who is suffering from infections, tactual skin disease or who is suffering from such a 
disease unless the period of such  in fection propagation is over, should not be allowed to do any 
mode transaction or occupying and exploiting to do so should not be allowed.
 21. Any person unless he/ she is in well washed clean dress should not be allowed to do any transaction 
or occupying to do so should not be done.
 22. When a market place is reserved for selling a particular kind of goods or material by the Balangoda 
Urban Council no other kind of goods or material should be sold or displayed to do so by any person.
 23. Any person should not tell, display for selling any meat of an animal unless it is duly permitted under 
the provisions of the Cattle Slaughter Ordinance.
 24. In case of any order published in the Gazette by the due authority as per the power given in section 
17 of the Cattle Slaughter Ordinance banning to slaughter animals in any date selling in any butchary 
keeping meat or displaying for selling or storing should not be done.
 25. Bringing or allowing to bring any dog or cat or any kind of animal or bird into the weekly fair premises 
should not be done by any person. This order should not be understood as an order not to bring as 
ofﬁ cial police dog into the premises by a police ofﬁ cer for any investigation matter.
Tasks that 
should be done

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'31
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 31.08.2018
859
 26. Any person who has obtained any sales place in a weekly fair to use or maintain should not sell 
or display or use it for any other purpose on insufﬁ cient or such a place or even a portion of it to 
any other person.
 27. No any person should make any construction, ﬁ xation or covering so as to alter the due plan or 
damage that design or make any alteration of a plan designed in the premises of the weekly fair 
unless the authority is given on a prior decision by the Balangoda Urban Council.
 28. Without getting permission in writing from the Chairman or authorized ofﬁ cer no covering, drawing 
a curtain or permanent alteration should be done near or in the premises or space given to a person.
 29. Without permission from the Chariman or an authorized of ﬁ cer, any box, table, chair or any such 
good that is not the property of the Balangoda Urban Council should not be kept there or making 
huts and ﬁ xing other equipment should not be done.
 30. Obtaining an electric supply or water supply from any electric current or common water tap which 
is used for public consumption in the weekly fair premises, should not be done or should not be 
allowed to do.
 31. Except that it is legal for the chairman of the Balangoda Urban Council or an authorized of ﬁ cer, 
to obtain a sample of any food item which has been kept for selling or displaying for selling or 
stored in a weekly fair, refusal of such buying by any person or interrupting for it should not be 
done.
 32. Palm reading, making suggestions to read palms or making life predictions should not be done.
 33. Any kind of drugs or medicine or any chemical material belonging to dangerous, unpleasant or 
danger causing type should not be sold, propagated for selling or kept for selling.
 34. Propagating or lecturing or making public speeches regarding any religion should not be done near 
or in the premises of the weekly fair.
 35. Selling intoxicant drugs or keeping them for selling or holding propaganda for it or distributing 
notice bills in the weekly fair ground or premises should not be done.
 36. Making propaganda or sales activities in the weekly ground or premises or for business transactions 
or for any other task by making use of laud speaker sets or modern high technological sound waves 
pollyting the sound should not be done.
 37. Even though it is mentioned so in the above by - law of 36, the Chairman or the authorized ofﬁ cer 
has the ability to use a loud speaker set or modern hight technological sound waves for making 
the public aware of any urgent, compulsory incident which affects the public.
 38. When orders are given to get out of the weekly fair premises by the ofﬁ cers in the Council coming 
for the duty to collect fees in the weekly fair.
 39. When orders are given to get out of the weekly fair premises  by the of ﬁ cer in charge of the 
weekly fair or Grama Niladhari or police ofﬁ cer or any other person taking action authorized by 
the Chairman no one should stay there for making disputes with him without being able to give a 
satisfactory answer, or loitering there without reason should not be done.
 40. Each and every vegetable, fruit, yam or other food items should not be unhealthy for the public.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08.31
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 31.08.2018
860
 41. Observing the following provisions of the by-Law regarding any weekly fair conducted by the Council 
should be done by the Balangoda Urban Council.
 42. It is the task of the Balangoda Urban Council to clean completely the premises prior to the date of 
holding the weekly fair and to clean completely once again or the end of the day the weekly fair is 
held.
 43. It is the task of the Balangoda Urabn Council to clean every latrine and urinal by washing using anti 
biotic or least once a day on which every weekly fair is held and to clean by washing every drain 
meant for ﬂ owing water once a day on which the weakly fair is held.
44.  The wastes collected to every buggy, vessel or tank made in accordance with the provisions in section 
12 should be made removed from the place or least once a day or more on necessity by the Balangoda 
Urban Council.
 45. The days and times that the weekly fair conducted by the Balangoda Urban Council can be decide 
from time to time by the council. It is the duty of the Chairman to make such day and times decided 
by the council known through notice or notices in three languages by displaying it/ them in a publicly 
noticeable place at the entrance to the weekly fair.
 46. Maintenance of peace within the fair premises should be done by an of ﬁ cer/ of ﬁ cers in service 
appointed by the council.
 47. Every person who comes to the fair for buying or selling should obey any legal order given by an 
ofﬁ cial in the council, or a police ofﬁ cer in order to settle  a dispute or maintain peace.
 48. Any person engaged in selling in the weekly fair places should not engage in selling activities unless 
he/ she has obtained a duly paid permit prepared by the Balangoda Urban Council in accordance 
with subsection of this By-Law. It is legal to impose such charges, changing them from time to time 
or amending them.
 49. Any authorized of ﬁ cer from the secretary can be deployed to issue a permit to any person who wants 
to use or handle the sales places in the weekly fair and collect money for such permits.
 50. It is the duty of the money collector not to collect money in the weekly fair without issuing a permit 
and credit the money duly collected to the Urban Council fund as ordered by the Council.
 51. In case of any inability to deploy an authorized of ﬁ cer from the secretary, for issuing a permit and 
collecting money for it as per the way mentioned in by-Law 48 the Balangoda Urban Council has the 
power to deploy a person selected through public tender calling for that purpose.
 52. Deploying a tender person selected under by-Law 51 for such a task will be valid only for one year 
and a tender person should be selected for the successive year through tender calling. Although it is 
so this does not mean that liability for forwarding a tender application for tender person selected in 
the previous year and being his tender application accepted by the Council for the successive year is 
restricted by this by-Law.
 53. Under the provision of By-Law 48 any tax collector should not collect excessive charges exceeding 
the charges decided by the Balangoda Urban Council for the use of sales places in any weekly fair.
 54. The Council should take steps to come to a due agreement with the tender person who will be selected 
to collect charges in a weekly fair.
Duties of the 
local government 
institute
Leaving 
chargers.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'31
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 31.08.2018
861
 55. Any person who has got a permit for using or handling any sales place in the weekly fair, should 
not negotiate it or should not do selling in any premises other than the premises mentioned for it 
and on occasion where the Chairman or the authorized of ﬁ cer is satisﬁ ed at to the fact that he/she 
has done so the Chairman or the authorized ofﬁ cer should have power to refer him/ her to the due 
place or to debar him/ her from sales activities or cancel the permit.
 56. Any dispute among the valid permit holders or the servants under the power such permit holders, 
and between permit holders and the public regarding the use of the weekly fair should be settled by 
the Chairman or any other ofﬁ cer authorized by the Chairman.
57.  If any food item displayed for selling is found unsuitable for food by the Medical Of ﬁ cer of Health 
or Public Health Inspector or any Health Inspector authorized by the Chairman,  it is lawful to 
examine that food item and ban it.
 58. On an occasion where any food item is found unsuitable for public consumption that whole lot or 
those whole lots should be banned and forwarded  to the Public Health Inspector by an authorized 
ofﬁ cer.
 59. No compensation will be paid when destroying such a lot of food items by the Public Health Inspector 
in accordance with the by-Law 58 above.
 60. Any under can be produced to a due court of law and given a penalty for keeping food items for 
selling which is unsuitable for the Public consumption.
 61. The council has the authority to decide whether to allow a person found gulty at a court of law as 
per by-Law 59 above to enter the fair premises for selling again or debar him from coming to the 
premises.
 62. If any relief is expected by any person regarding the weekly fair, the Balangoda Urban Council has 
the ability to make a decision on that relief application done in writing.
 63. The entive supervision should be done by the Balangoda Urban Council.
 64. It is an offence to break or neglect or violate any By-Law, or sub, By-Law or several by-Laws or 
all.
 65. Violation of any section included in this by-Law is an offence. If any person is convicted of any 
offence by an authorized court of law, he/she is liable for a ﬁ ne mentioned under section 153 (2) of 
chapter 255 of the Urban Council ordinance of No. 61 of 1939 and if that offence is continued to 
do he/ she is liable for an additional ﬁ ne or each day of such continuation even after handing over 
a written notice by the Chairman of the Urban Council or a secretary or any of ﬁ cer authorized by 
him, according to section 153 (2) of Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance No. 61 of 1939.
 
 66. In case of any discrepancy among the copies in three language Sinhala, Tamil and English the idea 
mentioned in the copy in Sinhala should be compellable.
 67. The Balangoda Urban Council has the power to amend or continue any by-Law or sub by - Law or 
several by-Laws or the entire series of by-Law of this series of by-Laws.
Pracesses of
inquiries
Violation of by-
law
Penalties

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08.31
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 31.08.2018
862
 68. Unless othervise, any de ﬁ nition is needed regarding the words of this by-Law;
 (i) “The Council” means the Urban Council of Balangoda.
 (ii) “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Balangoda Urban Council.
 (iii) “Secretary” means the secretary of the Balangoda Urban Council.
 (iv) “Of ﬁ cer” means an of ﬁ cer or a servant deployed by the Chairman or this secretary of the 
Balangoda Urban Council.
 (v) “Weekly fair” means the weekly fair conducted by the Balangoda Urban Council.
 (vi) “Consumer” means male or female parties who come to buy the goods and materials kept for 
sale.
 (vii) “Any person” means all the sellers, consumers, of ﬁ cers, males and females and clergy who 
comes to the weekly fair. 
(A) Schedule
Special Permit
The bearer of this permit ............................................................ of  ............................................................ is 
authorized by the ofﬁ cer in charge of the fair or the Chairman, to do sales transactions of Eggs, 
Jaggaries, Fruits, Vegetables, Grains, Yams or Crops of Chena's or gardens or any other goods 
on a stall or in the space reserved for him/ her at the Balangoda Sunday fair on ..................... 
for a period of time from ..................... am to ..................... pm.
 Rs.
Date :
          ......................................, 
 Chairman/ authorized of ﬁ cer.
08-1222
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Deﬁ nitions