

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1183
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1178
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"191 – 2020 wf.daia;= ui 28 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'08'28
No. 2,191  –  fRiday , august 28, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th september, 2020 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th september, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer.
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1175 - B 82053- 5,403 (08/2020)
N. B.–  Part ii and iV (a) of the Gazette No. 2,190 of 21.08.2020 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'08'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2020
1176
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'08'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2020
1177
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner general Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner general of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner general of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
general of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner general of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner general of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'08'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2020
1178
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA
Post of housekeeping Assistant 
aPPLicatioNs are invited from the citizens of sri Lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the post of Housekeeping assistant on the staff of the 
secretary-general of Parliament.
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “secretary-general of Parlia ment, Parliament of sri 
Lanka, sri Jayewardenepura Kotte" on or before september 
11, 2020. the post of “Housekeeping assistant” should 
be indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. 
(this advertisement is also available on the website: www.
parliament.lk)
1. Salary Scale.– according to the schedule i of the 
Management services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
the monthly salary scale for this post is Rs. 25,520 – 9 x 270 
/ 10 x 300 / 6 x 330 – Rs. 32,930. (on this salary scale, the 
minimum initial monthly remuneration together with all the 
allowances will be approximately Rs.57,000 /=)
2. Age Limit.– should not be less than 18 years and 
not more than 30 years of age as at the closing date for 
applications.
3. educational Qualifications.– should have passed 
general Certificate of Education (ordinary Level) 
Examination in six
 subjects including credit pass for 
sinhala or tamil language and passes for Mathematics 
and English in not less than two sittings.
4. Professional Qualifications.– should have a 
certificate issued by Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and 
Hotel Management (sLitHM) or any other recognized 
institution by the government for not less than 05 months 
duration in the field of Hotel Housekeeping, Room service 
or Room attendants’ service.
or
NVQ Level 2 certifica te in Hotel Housekeeping, Room 
service or Room attendants’ service
5. experience.– Not less than one year of experience in 
Hotel Housekeeping, Room service or Room
 attendants’ 
service at a star class hotel after obtaining the educational 
& professional qualifications mentioned in (3) & (4) above.
6. Method of Recruitment.– through a written test/ trade 
test and an interview.
7.  Terms and Conditions of Service :
 (i) this post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined 
according to the policy decisions taken by the 
government in future.  appointment  will
 be 
made subject to a three-year (03) probation 
period. If a person who has been confirmed in 
a permanent and pensionable post in the Public 
/ Provincial Public service is selected, he / she 
will be appointed subject to an acting period of 
one year.
 (ii) selected candidates will be subjected to the 
financial and departmental Regulations
 
applicable to the staff of the secretary - general 
of Parliament.
 (iii) selected candidates should contribute to 
the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and 
orphans’ Pension fund from his/her salary with 
a percentage specified by the Government.
      
 (iv) selected candidates will be subjected to a 
medical examination.
 (v) a security clearance Report with respect to the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.
8. applicants  should  attach  copies  of  the  following  
certificates  (not  originals)  to their applications. Originals 
of the certificates should be produced, when called upon to 
do so.
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications,
(c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications,
(d) Certificates of Experience.
9. applicants serving in Public / Provincial Public 
service / state corporations / statutory Boards should 
send their applications through their respective Heads of 
departments /
 institutions.
Posts – vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'08'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2020
1179
10. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
11. applications received after the closing date or sent 
without copies of the relevant certificates or not sent 
through Heads of departments / institutions will be 
rejected. applications sent through Heads of departments 
/institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
will also be rejected.
 W. B. d. 
Dasanayake, 
 secretary - general of Parliament.
Parliament of sri Lanka, 
sri Jayewardenepura Kotte. 
28th august, 2020
PaRLiaMENt of sRi LaNKa
specimen application Form
post oF Housekeeping assistant
01. (a)  Name with initials (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––.
 (b) Names denoted by initials (in sinhala/tamil) :
   –––––––––––––.
 (c) full Name (in block capitals): (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
   –––––––––––––.
02. N.i.c. No. :
03. (a)  Private address :––––––––––––––.
   t elephone No. :
 (b) Official Address :––––––––––––––.
   t elephone No. :
 (c)  Please indicate the address the admission to be  
  posted :
   Private :                            Official :
04. (a)  date of birth : 
   y ear :––––––.  Month :––––––. date :–––––––. 
   (A copy of the birth Certificate should be attached)
  (b) age as at the closing date of applications :
   y ears :––––––.  Months :––––––. days :–––––––. 
05. civil status: (Married/unmarried) :––––––––––. 
06. gender: (Male/female) :––––––––––. 
07. state whether a citizen of sri Lanka: (yes/No) :––––––.
08. Education Qualifications :- (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :
examination Subjects Pass Year
g. c.E 
(0/L)
sinhala/tamil
Mathermatics
English
09.  Higher Educational/Professional Qualifications (copies 
of the certificates should be attached) :–––––––––.
10. Experience (Copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :–––––––––.
11. details of the Present Employment:
 (a) Name and address of the institution :–––––––––.
 (b) Present Post :–––––––––.
 (c) date of first appointment :–––––––––.
 (d) Monthly basic salary :–––––––––.
 (e) allowances :–––––––––.
 (f) gross salary :–––––––––.
12. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law? ( yes/No)
  if yes, give details :–––––––––.
13. Have you served under the government before? :
 ( yes/No) 
 if yes, give details :–––––––––.
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'08'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2020
1180
Certification of Head of Department/Institution 
(only for applicants serving in the Public service/
Provincial Public service) 
secretary - general of Parliament,
i recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs /
Miss .......................................................................................
holding the post of ................................................................
in this Institution. I certify that he/she has been confirmed 
in this post. His/her work and conduct are satisfactory and 
he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action and 
there is no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can be 
released/cannot be released from the service if selected for 
this post.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of Head of department/institution.
 (Official Stamp)
date :––––––––––––.
08–698
–––––––––––––––––––––––
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA 
vacancies
aPPLicatioNs are invited from the citizens of sri Lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the posts mentioned below.
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover along 
with the copies of certificates of educational/professional, 
and service experience, to reach the  “secretary-general of 
Parliament, Parliament of sri Lanka, sri Jayewardenepura 
Kotte" on or before september 11, 2020 indicating the post 
applied for, on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. 
(this information is found on the website: www.parliament.
lk)
Parliamentary Interpreter (Sinhala/English/Sinhala)
Parliamentary Interpreter (Sinhala/Tamil/Sinhala
Parliamentary Interpreter (English /Tamil/ English)
1. Salary Scale.– according to the schedule i of the 
Management services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
the monthly salary scale for this post is Rs. 47,340 – 3 x  
755 - 13 x 1,030 – Rs. 62,995/- (on this salary scale, the 
minimum initial monthly remuneration together  with  all  
the  allowances  will  be  approximately Rs. 95, 000 /=)
2. Age Limit.– Not less than 22 years and not more than 
40 years of age as at the closing date for applications. (the 
upper age limit shall not apply to those who are already 
confirmed in Public/ Provincial Public service)
3. Educational Qualifications and Experience. – 
Candidates who possess any of the educational qualifications 
and experience
 mentioned under (a) and (b) below can 
apply for the above post.
(a) should possess a degree from a recognized 
university or from an institute recognized by 
the university grants commission as a degree 
awarding institute.
 candidates applying for the post of Parliamentary 
interpreter (sinhala/English/ sinhala) should have 
studied English or sinhala, candidates applying 
for the post of Parliamentary interpreter (sinhala/
tamil/sinhala) should have studied sinhala or 
tamil and  candidates applying for the post 
of Parliamentary interpreter (English/t amil/
English) should have studied English or tamil for 
the degree.
 and
 Having passed g.c.E (ordinary Level) 
Examination in six subjects in not more than two 
sittings, including credit passes for Mathematics 
and for the language which is not offered for the 
degree.
 and
 Not less than two years of post-qualifying 
experience in a language related field such as 
teaching, interpretation, translation or mass media 
in a government or a recognized institution
 and
 ability  to interpret from one language to the 
other language with equal ease is
 required.
(b) Having passed g.c.E (advanced Level) 
Examination in 04 subjects (old syllabus) or in 
03 subjects (New syllabus) in one sitting.
 and
 Having passed g.c.E (ordinary Level) 
examination in six subjects including credit  

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'08'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2020
1181
passes for Mathematics and relevant languages 
in not more than two sittings
 candidates applying for the post of Parliamentary 
interpreter (sinhala/English/ sinhala) should have 
credit passes for English and sinhala, candidates 
applying for the post of Parliamentary interpreter 
(sinhala/tamil/sinhala) should have credit passes 
for sinhala and tamil and  candidates applying 
for the post of Parliamentary interpreter (English/
tamil/English) should have credit passes for 
English and tamil
 and
 Not less than five years of post-qualifying 
experience in a language related  field such as 
teaching, interpretation, translation or mass media 
in a government or recognized institution
 and
 ability  to interpret from one language to the 
other language with equal ease is
 required.
4. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made 
on the results of the tests conducted on simultaneous 
interpretation and translation and an interview.
Note: Candidates possessing qualifications under 3 
(a) or (b) above should  have the ability to 
interpret simultaneously between the languages 
in the relevant stream he/she applies for and 
experience in simultaneous
 interpretation is 
not compulsory.
5. Terms and Conditions of Services :
 (i) this post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined 
according to policy decisions taken by the 
government in future. appointment will be made 
subjected to a three-year (3) probation
 period. if a 
person who has been confirmed in a permanent, 
pensionable post is selected, he / she will be 
appointed subject to an acting period of one year.
 (ii) selected candidates will be subjected to financial 
and departmental Regulations applicable to the 
staff of the secretary-general of Parliament.
 (iii) selected candidates should contribute to Widows’ 
and orphans’/Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension 
fund from his / her salary with a percentage 
specified by the Government. They will be 
subjected  to
 a medical examination.
 (iv) a security clearance Report in respect of the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.
6. applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals) to their applications and original 
certificates should be produced, only when called upon to 
do so.
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Certificates confirming educational qualifications ; 
(c) Certificates confirming professional qualifications ;
(d) Certificates confirming experience.
7. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public 
service should send their applications through relevant 
Heads of departments / institutions.
8. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification for 
this post.
9. any information in the application found to be 
incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant 
liable for disqualification, and to dismissal, if discovered 
after appointment.
10. applications received after the closing date or sent 
without copies of the above mentioned certificates or not 
sent through Heads of departments / institutions will be 
rejected. applications sent through Heads of departments/
institutions but received after the closing date, and  
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will also be rejected.
 W. B. d. 
Dasanayake, 
 secretary - general of Parliament.
Parliament of sri Lanka, 
sri Jayewardenepura Kotte. 
28th august, 2020
PaRLiaMENt of sRi LaNKa
specimen application Form
post oF parliamentary interpreter (......../......../.......)
01. (a)  Name with initials (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––.
 (b) Names denoted by initials (in sinhala/tamil) :
   –––––––––––––.
 (c) full Name (in block capitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss :
   –––––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'08'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2020
1182
02. N.i.c. No. :
03. (a)  Private address :––––––––––––––.
   t elephone No. :
 (b) Official Address :––––––––––––––.
   t elephone No. :
 (c)  Please indicate the address the admission to be  
  posted :
   Private :                            Official :
04. (a)  date of birth : 
   y ear :––––––.  Month :––––––. date :–––––––. 
   (A copy of the birth Certificate should be attached)
  (b) age as at closing date of applications :
   y ears :––––––.  Months :––––––. days :–––––––. 
05. civil status: (Married/unmarried) :––––––––––. 
06. gender: (Male/female) :––––––––––. 
07. state whether a citizen of sri Lanka: (yes/No) :––––––.
08. Education Qualifications and Experience :- (Copies of 
the certificates should be attached) :
 for those who are applying under 3 (a) in the notice :
Details of the Degree
Degree Subjects University Year
G. C. E (O/L)
Subject Pass Year
English/ Tamil
Experience 
(Copies of the certificates should be attached)
Institute Post Service
for those who are applying under 3 (b) in the notice :
G. C. E. (A/L)
Subject Pass Year
G. C. E (O/L)
Subject Pass Year
Tamil
English
Experience 
(Copies of the certificates should be attached)
Institution Post Service 
Period
09. Professional Qualifications ( copies of the certificates 
should be attached)  :–––––––––.
10. details of the Present Employment:
 (a) Name and address of the institution :–––––––––.
 (b) Present Post :–––––––––.
 (c) date of first appointment :–––––––––.
 (d) Monthly basic salary :–––––––––.
 (e) allowances :–––––––––.
 (f) gross salary :–––––––––.
11. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law? ( yes/No)
  if yes, give details :–––––––––.
12. Have you served under the government before? :
 ( yes/No) 
 if yes, give details :–––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'08'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.08.2020
1183
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of LIvESTOCk, fARm PROmOTION AND DAIRy AND EGG RELATED 
INDuSTRIES 
Department of Animal Production and health 
tHiRd EfficiENcy BaR EXaMiNatioN foR tHE officERs iN tHE sRi LaNKa aNiMaL PRoductioN 
aNd HEaLtH sERVicE - 2020
THE closing date for receiving applications for the Third Efficiency Bar Examination for Class - I Officers in the Sri 
Lanka animal Production and Health service - 2020 which has been given as on or before 24th July 2020, in the Gazette 
notification published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2182 dated 26.06.2020 is extended 
up to 10th september 2020.
02. accordingly, the sentence “from the officers those who are promoted to Grade I in the Sri Lanka Animal 
Production and Health service as at 24th July 2020” in Paragraph i in the said Gazette notification is amended as “from 
officers those who are promoted to Grade I in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as at 10th September 
2020” and the sentence “on or before 24th July 2020” in paragraph 7 is amended as “on or before 10th september 2020”.
03. Rest of Gazette notification remains the same. 
 dr. R. 
HettiaracHcHi, 
 director general of animal Production and Health. 
18th august, 2020.
08–691
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, i am 
liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before selection, or 
to be dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made after appointment.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––.
Certification of Head of Department/Institution 
(only for applicants serving in the Public service/Provincial Public service) 
secretary - general of Parliament,
i recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs /Miss ...................................... holding the post of ................... in 
this Institution. I certify that he/she has been confirmed in this post. His/her work and conduct are satisfactory and he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action and there is no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can be released/cannot 
be released from the service if selected for this post.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of Head of department/institution.
 (Official Stamp)
date :––––––––––––.
08–699