

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs.  5.50                                                                                                              Postage  : Rs.   4.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of  October 04 ,  2002
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 04th October, 2002]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
———————————
FACTORIES  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No. 19  OF 2002
———————————
———————————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Factories (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 2002
2—H 016426– 5,550  (07/2002)
[Certified on 04th October, 2002]
L. D.—O. 46/2000.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  FACTORIES  ORDINANCE
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Factories (Amendment)
Act, No. 19 of 2002.
2. Section 68 of the Factories Ordinance is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and the
substitution therefor of the following subsection :—
“(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Part
relating to the hours worked and periods of
employment, the pressure of work in any factory may
be dealt with by the overtime employment of women
and young persons who have attained sixteen years
of age but have not attained eighteen years of age :
Provided that the overtime worked by a woman
shall not exceed in the aggregate sixty hours in any
calendar month and overtime worked by a young
person who has attained the age of sixteen years but
not attained the age of eighteen years, shall not
exceed in the aggregate fifty hours in any calendar
month. ” ;
(2) by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of
that section, and the substitution therefor, of the
following paragraph :—
“(a) the total number of hours worked, including
overtime, by a woman or young person,
Short title.
Amendement of
section 68 of
Chapter 128.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Factories (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 2002
exclusive of intervals allowed for meals and
rest, shall not exceed sixty hours in any
week. ” ;
(3) by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) of
that section of the following new subsection :—
“(2A ) An employer shall not engage in
overtime—
(a) a pregnant woman during her
pregnancy ; and
(b) a nursing mother, for a period  of one
year calculated from the date of the
birth of the child; and
(c) a woman delivered of a stillborn
child, for a period of three months
calculated from the date of such still
birth,
unless she expresses her consent to be engaged in
such overtime, in writing.” ; and
(4) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section, and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :—
“(4) the Minister may by regulation –
(a) prohibit or restrict the overtime
employment of women or young
persons or any class thereof, if it
appears that such overtime
employment will prejudicially affect
the health of such women or young
person ;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Factories (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 2002
(b) prescribe the conditions to be
maintained within the factory
including the provision of rest room
facilities during the times that a
woman or young person is engaged
in overtime employment therein ;
(c) prescribe the manner of providing
transport facilities to women engaged
in overtime employment during the
night.”.
3. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Factories (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 2002
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.